mr president, my group put in a request this afternoon to have a debate on tuesday in the presence of the high representative, baroness ashton, on the issue of mali, which is a military counter-terrorist intervention led by one member state with the support of my own home country. it was turned down on a technicality as we could not get the application in by four o’clock. i would ask you to use your discretion to put it to a vote to the house to have this debate on an issue of great importance to my group.
mr president, it does seem to me, and judging from the atmosphere in the house here, that this is, whatever the rules may say, a matter for your discretion and surely there was a great deal of sympathy within this house with the idea that the subject of mali should be on the agenda of this week’s business. so i put it to you, mr president: do not hide behind the rule book. i am sure this is a matter about which you feel an equal concern; please put it to the house.
mr president, very unusually, i am in favour of the proposal. exceptionally.
mr president, this report makes many valuable proposals about how companies ought to respond to restructuring. it is self-evidently right that workers should receive the maximum notice of redundancies and of course receive improved opportunities for re-employment. however, recital ac states, quite rightly, that different companies, sectors and countries have different needs, so i think member state legislation would be more appropriate than eu legislation. there is one glaring flaw in the report. it treats the need for restructuring as though it were an autonomous need over which neither the eu nor member states had any control. recommendation 1 mentions the need for companies to be competitive. the question is with whom or what and why? the answer is twofold: relatively low labour costs within the eu and peripheral countries in europe and much lower labour costs and appalling working conditions in the third world and the so-called emergent economies. the unspoken cause of the need for restructuring is the process of globalisation which all the countries have signed up to.
mr president, we all want to see european workers protected from exploitation, but we also need high levels of employment and this can only be achieved through competitive and sustainable businesses. that sometimes needs restructuring. some of the measures called for here, like asking employers to set aside sufficient funds to retrain their workforce in the event of the company going under and restricting the options for making changes to working conditions of employees during restructuring operations, make it actually harder for employers to avoid making redundancies. in this context i do not understand how burdening businesses with unreasonable requirements can be seen as helping workers or protecting their rights, if the result is to tie their hands during crisis periods and potentially force them to go under rather than restructure. as i highlighted in committee, employers should be investing in their employees’ training and continual professional development. this helps them to do their jobs better and adds value to the company and also, in the event that they leave or are made redundant, makes them more employable. successful businesses do this anyway and we should be encouraging exchange of best practice rather than inventing extra burdens to stifle our own competitiveness.
mr president, the commissioner will be well aware that 40% of britain’s unemployed are under 25 but the uk government’s so-called work programme found sustained employment for just 2 in 100 people involved, whilst the british labour party has announced policies for compulsory job guarantees funded by limiting tax relief on the pension contributions of the wealthiest people and british labour meps have supported our national trade union confederation, the british tuc, in a youth unemployment charter that supports youth guarantees. but let me tell the house too how my own east of england region is the second hardest hit in the uk for rising youth unemployment and how, according to the prince’s trust – whose ‘get into’ projects i warmly commend – one in five young people in my region say their prospects are being permanently damaged and one in four say they regularly feel depressed. i have heard from emily, a 23-year-old from norfolk, whose father died and who ended up leaving school without taking examinations and is now dependent on anti-depressants. let us not give her pills, let us give her hope.
in writing. – with youth unemployment running at thirty per cent in ireland and at as high as fifty per cent in greece and spain, action at eu level is clearly to be welcomed. however, policies announced in the eu that are not backed by funding do not change and will not change anything in the near future for the many thousands of young people unemployed. much remains unclear about the nature and enforceability of any guarantee too. in short, there is no ‘guarantee’ and action at home must be stepped up. added support from the eu is always welcome but there is a need to ground this in the very real context of mass youth emigration and what is actually being proposed. in 2010, sinn fein supported a call by parliament for 10 % of esf funding to be channelled to this end. such funding should significantly facilitate member states’ efforts to implement such schemes, rather than the stand-alone nature proposed. youth guarantee schemes already operate in and have proven their worth in some countries with the lowest levels of youth unemployment such as austria and the netherlands; however, their effectiveness in those hardest hit remains a challenge unmet.
rapporteur. − madam president, i am pleased to see that the commissioner is here. i was particularly pleased to have been given the chance to do this report because i believe that cohesion policy is vital for all regions of the european union and, of course, it is vital that we have adequate funding for cohesion policy in the next mff. but, in addition to funding, it is also vital that we have in place the right regulations for cohesion policy to allow us to create jobs and growth. i therefore particularly welcome the proposals from the commission on the regulations and particularly welcome the proposals for a common strategic framework for five of the major funds. i believe this will allow improvements to the effectiveness of eu funding, improvements to simplification for applicants and also greater or easier access for applicants to a range of eu funds. however, it seemed to me at the time the regulations were first proposed that there was a lack of detail on how we could actually create some mechanisms to bring these five funds together. we have got some proposals on a partnership agreement, some proposals on multi-level governance, proposals on a code of conduct, community-led development, joint action plans and integrated territorial investments. i believe that these are all good ideas and that we should welcome all of them, but we need some mechanisms to allow all these things to happen to bring together the funds, as i explained earlier. therefore i consulted with a large number of stakeholders from right across the european union. i held a round-table discussion with stakeholders, practitioners, people from regions and local authorities who deal with structural fund programmes on a day-to-day basis, because i believe they know what we should be doing in terms of eu funds for the future. this round table was particularly useful. at it we were able to explore some mechanisms for bringing together the funds at a local and regional level. one good example was wales. of course you would expect me to give that as an example. the intention in wales is to create a single portal post-2014 where we have a single application, payment and monitoring process, almost a one-stop-shop for applicants and for the managing authority as well. another good example was the netherlands, where funds from a number of programmes are to be devolved to local authorities, allowing them to create packages of eu funds to fund projects in their particular locality. a third good example is in greater manchester in the uk where they have a proposed model for an iti which will allow integrated funding from a number of eu and other sources, so, for example, they will propose an infrastructure project using erdf money, while maybe using esf money to train the people to actually carry out that particular project. greater manchester is currently working on that as a proposal for post-2014. of course there will be other examples from regions right across the european union. i believe what we should be doing is collecting these ideas, collecting this good practice and finding some ways of exchanging this good practice right across the european union. therefore, commissioner, i hope you will take that on board as a firm proposal to come out of this own-initiative report so we can find ways and mechanisms of actually putting these good ideas into place, allowing local authorities and regions to bring these five funds together to fund major projects in the future. i believe that is the best way to use these funds and the best way for us to make sure we reach our europe 2020 targets. i believe that is the best way for us to improve and increase economic prosperity in our regions right across the european union.
madam president, may i begin by thanking parliament’s rapporteurs and all the negotiating teams for their work on this legislative package of cohesion policy which is to come into force, probably not in 2013 and maybe not even in 2014, but whenever billed. but we have to prepare for that. it is my hope that a new category of transition regions, which would include my own constituency of northern ireland, will continue to find support within parliament. this category would play an incredibly important role alongside the present peace funding that we have at the moment and which was vital to northern ireland over the last number of years. in my opinion, the continuation of peace funding continues to be essential for the future of northern ireland. i am grateful to parliament’s negotiators for ensuring that the proposal for a new peace programme has already been agreed between parliament and the council within the context of the territorial cooperation dossier. however, i am still concerned and unclear about the funding as to whether any would be available and what source it would come from. one thing i am very clear on, commissioner, is that there must be extra funding as it was in the past. it must not be top sliced off the interreg fund or the other excellent funds that are doing tremendous work across borders and actively dealing with things. it is true that we always have to prioritise and that the budget is there and has got to be agreed on, but we have got to prioritise within this parliament and within the regions.
mr president, in these difficult financial times we must make sure that structural and cohesion funds work harder and smarter to deliver results. they are not in place simply for redistribution for the sake of it, but must deliver on our 2020 strategy objectives. for this reason, i welcome the majority of the vaughan report and thank the rapporteur for his work. i particularly support the stress on subsidiarity, making it clear that member states are best placed to define their cities, not the commission. i am also happy to see a call for flexibility in the very welcome proposal for a results-led programming system. this, combined with an emphasis on this thematic concentration and rolling out of the identified examples of best practice such as the single portal in wales, should lead to a more robust and coherent future for structural funds. but – there is always a but i am afraid! – i am disappointed to see no real proposal for savings and combating inefficiencies which would enable us to make savings and safeguard spending for where it is really needed. instead, we see a call for maintaining the budget which is simply not viable in these difficult times.
rapporteur. − mr president, i will try to be brief with my concluding remarks. i want to thank the commissioner for his contribution. i also want to thank colleagues for their contribution in the debate this evening and particularly the shadows and also the committee on employment and social affairs which gave an opinion on my own-initiative report. it does seem that there is widespread support for the idea that we should be looking to bring funds together where possible. i do believe however that there is still a lot of work to be done in terms of bringing the rules of the funds together and i think we need to work harder on that in the future. but if we can achieve that i think it would be better for applicants. i also think it would make the eu funds more effective in the future, because, as the commissioner said, it is important that we try to make sure that funds in the future help us meet the 2020 targets. but also it is important for applicants that we try to simplify the process. where possible we need to make sure that the process is as flexible as possible for local authorities and regions so they can meet their own individual needs as well. i really believe that some of the suggestions in my report about mechanisms to bring funds together can help us achieve that. i know from the discussions i have had that many regions are already working on these mechanisms to bring funds together in the future, but i also know that many regions have not started to do that. we also know that outside the common framework there are still other funds like horizon 2020 for example. i would hope that the commission would work with the regions and local authorities to get good practice where we can bring these funds together so they have a much bigger impact in the future. i am sure the commissioner will want to do that and i am sure regions and local authorities would want to help him do that also.
blue-card question. – may i remind mr gargani that the court of auditors has declined to sign the accounts of the european union for the 18th year in a row. that is 18 successive years when the court of auditors has declined to sign the accounts. would you accept therefore, mr gargani, that the administration of the commission is structurally flawed?
mr president, on 3 december 2012 belfast city council democratically voted to limit the flying of the british flag to 17 designated days at city hall. unionist politicians instigated an upheaval in the run-up to the council vote by distributing 40 000 leaflets which led to daily protests, many of them violent and most of them illegal. yet these politicians act as though they are not responsible for these predictable consequences. the loyalist paramilitary group the ulster volunteer force, and the british national party have been actively involved with police officers being injured and attacks on the catholic district of the short strand. the promise of the good friday agreement for a new society in which all citizens are respected and where justice and equality are the guiding principles has to be advanced. without doubt the overwhelming majority of people want the irish peace process supported and progressed. to that end, we need an all-party cross-community response to the flag protest and to the violence.
mr president, mr imran firasat is a pakistani who converted from islam to christianity. spain granted him asylum in 2004 because as an apostate his life was at risk. the spanish authorities are now threatening to deport him to pakistan under hate speech laws mandated by the european commission. mr firasat produced a film entitled ‘the innocent prophet’, as part of his critique of islam. an altered version of the film was released last december without mr firasat’s consent. this appears to be the extent of his transgression. if mr firasat is deported he may face the death penalty for alleged blasphemy. individuals and organisations across europe and the world are calling on the spanish authorities not to take any action until mr firasat’s lawyers have lodged his appeal with the spanish high court. it would be a betrayal of all western liberal and democratic values if mr firasat was sent to his death for criticising a belief system.
mr president, i rise on the issue of very serious flooding in my constituency last month, involving costs of many millions of pounds and damage to the main railway line from london to the south-west of england, and indeed damage to the great western canal in devon. my main concern is that, in all of the work that we are doing to combat climate change in the european union, we are looking at the impact and at how to mitigate and adapt to the impact of climate change outside the union. we are not looking at what climate change is doing within the union, which is very much in line with what some of the scientists, particularly the potsdam institute, have been telling us to expect. we need to be adapting all of our policies, competition policy and other policies, to fight the impact of climate change that we are already seeing in the european union, and i call on the commission to hold a special conference and get its act together as to what will be needed to do this.
mr president, before christmas there was, rightly, a furore when social workers in rotherham took away children from foster parents because they belonged to ukip, believing it to be racist. yet what are they to make of the fact that the uk independence party’s local mep, godfrey bloom, is a former president of the european alliance for freedom, a body that includes the french front national, belgium’s vlaams belang and the austrian freedom party, whose leader has recently been compared by a judge to a nazi? these parties are the natural recipients of racist votes. i have called on the ukip leader, nigel farage, to expel godfrey bloom, but instead he has hugged him close, giving a nod and a wink to the racists. it is dog-whistle politics. website references to some of the links between ukip and these parties have strangely disappeared in recent weeks, but i have kept copies. nigel farage denies that ukip has racist associations, but the characters of parties, just like people, are formed by those with whom they choose to associate. by your friends shall ye be known.
mr president, as a keen cyclist and a proud yorkshirewoman, i am delighted that in 2014 the grand départ, the opening stage of the tour de france, will take place in yorkshire, the region i represent. this will be the first time that the world’s greatest cycling race has come to the north of england. the tour is one of the sporting wonders of europe and the world, and yorkshire provides a perfect location for the race. the steep hills and bracing conditions of the yorkshire countryside will make a beautiful backdrop for the tour and provide demanding challenges for the riders. i am sure that the tour will do many good things for the local economy, as all the tour fans will come to yorkshire to watch the race, and tv coverage of the tour will beam the region into the homes of millions of tv viewers across the world, many of whom will be captivated by our beautiful countryside. yorkshire has a long history with the tour de france, as the region has generated more stage winners than any other region in england. i would particularly like to congratulate the regional tourism board ‘welcome to yorkshire’ for the fantastic campaign which led to the success of this bid.
rapporteur. − mr president, the whole of africa is one of the most tense and conflict-prone regions of the world. the countries of the region – djibouti, eritrea, ethiopia, kenya, somalia, sudan, south sudan and uganda – continue to be characterised by strife. the many problems include tensions between ethiopia, eritrea and somalia and between eritrea and djibouti, absence of the rule of law, drug smuggling and piracy, terrorist activities by the lord’s resistance army and al-qa’ida and, perhaps most gravely of all, famine, dire poverty and disputes over water supplies. but the first thing that my report notes is the paramount importance to the global economy of a stable horn of africa and safe passage of ships off its coast. africa itself as a continent presents huge economic potential but we cannot ignore the problems of fundamental human rights. poverty is rife and, owing to the particularly bad droughts in 2008 and 2009 with the resulting famine, it is estimated that over 13 million people are now in need of emergency assistance in the entire horn of africa. coupled with this is the lack of stable democratic and employment prospects for the population particularly the young. we are now reaching a point in which young people growing up in towns such as mogadishu in somalia have only ever known violence and war. coupled with the absence of the rule of law, poor prospects will continue to provide fertile grounds for encouraging criminal activities including piracy and drug smuggling and sustain al-qa’ida affiliated terrorist groups such as al-shabaab. piracy is costing the world’s shipping industry an estimated gbp 4.1 billion per year. although there now appears to be some signs that the revenue from piracy is declining as counter-piracy measures take effect, recent raids by pirates have nonetheless demonstrated the increasing ambitions and sophistication of their operations which require still more effort and resources from the eu’s cfsp maritime counter-piracy operation eunavfor-atalanta, which is commanded out of my constituency in northwood in london. the eu should stand ready now to provide financial assistance when required but the political resources and political impetus must come from within the region itself led by the horn of africa nations: ethiopia, kenya and uganda. the latter, until a recent announcement of withdrawal, have all provided valuable military support to the efforts to achieve stability and peace in the region. we have also seen success through the eu training mission in somalia and the newly launched eucap nestor which aims to strengthen the rule of law in somalia. political coordination also needs to be a priority and, as such, the inter-governmental authority on development known as igad can play a key role as a regional africa player in developing a system of good governance. coordination of water resources is particularly vital, with the ongoing negotiations between ethiopia, sudan and egypt over the grand renaissance blue nile dam project proving a case in particular. there is now reason for cautious optimism on the prospects of enduring peace and stability in this region. we have seen that eu and au troops can work together to achieve common aims. pockets of stability such as somaliland have proved to be capable of developing effective judiciaries and democratic institutions. the recent elections in somalia to replace a transitional federal government and the near-peaceful split of sudan into two sovereign states gives rise to the hopes that democracy, stability and prosperity will one day be realised for all the nations in that region. the extremely large volume of amendments inserted at committee stage for my report have, of course, diluted the initial foreign affairs and security focus which i had intended and i did oppose the hostile tone of some paragraphs towards ethiopia in particular. it is also a matter of personal regret that my observation of somaliland’s desire for re-recognition as a nation state was deleted. nevertheless, i hope that this report can offer some contribution to the current multi-layered discourse on the horn of africa and eventually be incorporated into the eu strategy more broadly.
madam president, my congratulations to the cyprus presidency for making the best of one of the toughest economic crisis to hit europe since the second world war, and my congratulations also – if that is the right word – to the european commission for its instrumental role in creating that crisis. in 2004, the commission missed its chance to right one of the gravest wrongs in europe: the turkish occupation of northern cyprus. was it right that cyprus should accede to the eu with such a border dispute? was it right that the commission should have even mooted the possibility of turkey becoming a candidate country whilst its armed troops are occupying northern cyprus? the commission swept the problem under the table in the interests of political expediency, instead of bringing diplomatic pressure to bear on turkey. in may of this year, displaced residents of the northern cypriot town of kyrenia plan to cross the border for the first time since occupation in order to attend to their religious duties in their own church. my colleague nikki sinclaire will be with them. i am sure that this house shares my hopes that this event will pass off smoothly and peacefully.
madam president, i was rather critical of the cyprus presidency at the outset, but i would like to congratulate president christofias and his government on a fruitful first presidency and to salute especially the excellent work of andreas mavroyiannis in difficult political and personal circumstances. president christofias, liberal democrats regret that no progress has been made with regard to matters on your island that affect hundreds of thousands of other eu citizens, such as reform of your land laws and the establishment of a banking ombudsman. we are also deeply concerned about discrimination by your broadcasters, especially cybc – or rik as you call it – against our candidate in your current presidential election, but we hope that your experience of seeing how other member states function will inspire the domestic reforms which will make your country a well-functioning modern democracy.
madam president, i found the cypriot president’s new year’s eve message refreshingly honest, as far as it went. he admitted that the policies implemented on a pan-european level had not succeeded in providing a solution to the crisis. he could, of course, have gone further and said that, if southern european countries in the eurozone were to revert to their own currencies, each being left to find its own value, those countries would enjoy export-led recoveries. he could have said that eu countries – individually or collectively – should protect their industries from imports from the so-called emergent economies. earlier in december 2012, he did explain that the impasse on the cyprus problem had been caused by turkey, which used the cyprus presidency as an excuse. he might have added that the eu, for all its talk of solidarity, appears not to regard the turkish occupation of northern cyprus and the desecration of its christian places of worship as an impediment to talks on turkey becoming a member.
the next item is question time with the commission. i would like to welcome colleagues and also commissioners kroes, geoghegan-quinn and vassiliou. the topic is innovation, research and development, especially in the framework of horizon 2020. just to remind you of the ground rules. questions are taken exclusively on a catch-the-eye basis. the officials are taking notes of those who wish to take the floor. members have one minute to put questions, 30 seconds for a supplementary. the commissioner has two minute to reply if only one commissioner is speaking. if more than one commissioner replies, each one has one minute. two other points. the conference of presidents is discussing on thursday revisions to the procedures at question time to try and make it a little bit fairer. secondly, mrs kroes has notified me that she unavoidably has to leave in the middle of question time and i have accepted her explanation for that.
i would like to ask the commissioner her views on the changes that this parliament’s committee has made to the allocations of the budget for science and research. i support investment in research. it is critical to drive innovation and growth, and it is also critical to meet society’s biggest challenges. one of those challenges, for example, is food. food poverty is not just an issue for developing states, in my own region there are more than double the number of families needing help with food bills than there were a year ago. the commission’s original proposal was eur 4.7 billion invested in food research; this parliament has cut that by 10%. they have also sliced money of health and transport just when our small companies and families are finding the cost of transport unaffordable. i believe many of the changes made by this committee were made to get short-term political headlines without thinking through the long-term impact. what is your view, commissioner?
in advance of our first trialogue meeting, please will you help us by putting some analysis behind what the potential impact will be of the changes that parliament’s committee has proposed on how science could be funded, and what the impact of those reallocations could be on the research that is happening on the ground in our laboratories and in our businesses.
member of the commission. − can i just add to that, ms madurell, that i feel that the members of the european parliament have a really crucial role to play in all of this, because all of you interact on a regular basis with the governments in your own member states. i think that members of the european parliament are highly respected by their governments and therefore should use the opportunity to impress upon those that come to that mff table, as i refer to it, how important and crucial it is in helping us to remain a global player to secure a good, strong budget for research and innovation in the european union. vice-president kroes talked about what is happening in korea, the united states, china, singapore – a whole lot of areas of the world where they see that research and innovation is the key to exit a financial crisis. i think it would be a pity if the european union lost this opportunity that it has now to really strongly invest in the whole area of research and innovation.
as you know, commissioner, my party – sinn féin – has been arguing for a more joined-up approach on the policy of innovation, research and development in ireland, both north and south. as a low-performing area, only 424 companies out of a business space of 70 000 invest in r&d in the north of ireland, and many of the smes have no understanding or awareness of their eligibility to take part or to avail themselves of the opportunities. therefore, while invest ni, without doubt, has much more to do to increase that awareness (and i think they need to look quite closely at what enterprise ireland has been doing, so that we can avail ourselves of the opportunities), i would like to hear more about how smes are going to understand the simplification process that you talked about, the flexibility that you said is going to be applied, the role that you see the commission having in facilitating the increased engagement of smes – particularly (i have to say) in a low performing area like the north of ireland. in particular, do you see a strategic role for the commission in encouraging and facilitating an all-ireland synergy in this area?
member of the commission. − ms anderson, i very much understand the challenges that there are in northern ireland in the whole area of research and innovation, and in fact one of the first visits that i made when i became a commissioner was to northern ireland to explain to ministers and officials the real opportunities that there were for funding under the framework programme and for getting companies and researchers to apply for funding under the research programme. i am very pleased at what i have seen happening over the last 18 months, in that there is a real engagement from the authorities in northern ireland, from the first minister and deputy first minister down – engaging here in brussels, engaging in belfast with those of us who have gone over to work with the executive, and indeed yourselves and each of your colleagues that are here from northern ireland working with the northern ireland office representation here in brussels. i think northern ireland is like quite a number of areas of the european union where the information did not get across really well. so that is the first thing: that invest northern ireland, plus ourselves in the commission and yourselves as public representatives, have a role to play in explaining what is available, and how you go about applying. many up to now felt that the rules were just too complicated, it was too much trouble; and in good times obviously they applied to their own governments, their own authorities. that day has passed now and they are coming back to the european union, so i think there is an onus on us to communicate what is available, to explain how to apply, to organise for them to come here and visit, to meet those people in the directorate-general that are involved in the various areas, whether it is health or energy or agriculture or fisheries, whatever the area might be that is of interest. i think it is also important for northern ireland to look at its own strengths and say: ‘what areas are we really strong in? and if we are going to be smart and if we are going to specialise then we should specialise in those particular areas’. i think that is really a process that is happening at the moment. the simplification will be crucial for smes, a one-stop-shop where they do not have to submit applications in triplicate, where they understand exactly that the red tape has been cut, that in relation to costs there will be a new system in place – in other words, all of the elements of simplification that we carried out ourselves, all the elements of simplification that parliament helped us with in the revision of the financial regulation, for example, and other simplifications that will come when horizon 2020 is finally approved. all of that is an indication of how serious we are in the commission about this time really having a true simplified procedure, a simplified application framework available which will bring more and more people into the programme.
i look forward to working well with your officials, particularly by way of sharing the kind of information that we need to get across to the smes. as a junior minister who attended the meeting at which you put on the table the opportunities that exist for the north and how those opportunities need to be maximised, i hope that we can organise such a visit for the smes and i would like to play a part in that. recognising the benefits of the synergies that exist that should allow business and higher education and the public research institute to benefit from the strategic framework of horizon 2020, i am thinking of a research institute like ctric in my own area where i live – in derry – and many, many others. i would like the commission to say what we could do to maximise those synergies in terms of horizon 2020 so that, when i am encouraging smes to come here, and hopefully involved in organising such a visit, we can share that kind of information with them.
that concludes question time. i am grateful to commissioners and to colleagues. i apologise to those who were not called. as i said, we are discussing a new procedure for question time to make it more transparent and more fair.
mr president, i make this statement on behalf of the british conservative delegation to the european parliament. whilst this report attempts to deal with the renewal of urban areas through cohesion policy, i am afraid that the text is sorely lacking in any concrete suggestions which could help town and city centres deliver the employment and growth which europe so much needs. rather, this text focuses on an alternative agenda of using more cohesion funds to integrate marginalised groups in urban areas and attempts to interfere further in the integration of town planning across the eu. it is unacceptable, furthermore, that the report suggests using more cohesion funding for the technical assistance of local government, which may frequently mean nothing more than a by-word for increased bureaucracy. in summary, this text will do little to help job creators in urban areas, and my delegation has voted against this disappointing report.
mr president, the cozzolino report on urban development as a contribution to eu growth concludes that the eu cohesion policy must focus on developing and assisting local initiatives. as an mep for london, this of course makes sense to me. we must avoid taxpayers’ money being filtered by bureaucratic layers, leaving only residues for those that are targeted. it is to the local level that citizens feel most attached, and to which intangible assets like historical and cultural ties are closely linked. however, this text i regret is far too prescriptive and will not help growth. as a uk conservative, i am a believer in localism; it enables the most efficient spending to be matched with the most democratic consent. therefore, the erdf and cohesion policy, which frankly need to be radically reformed and repatriated anyway, ought to bolster a new approach to urban policies. nevertheless, i do agree it is vital that such a substantial part of european funding is conducted efficiently, but also with full local participation and also it must promote economic growth throughout the european union.
mr president, it was a truly extraordinary debate this morning. the president of the commission said that the existential threat to the euro was over, the crisis was finished and then, one after another, colleagues lined up to lend their voices to that proposition. there is an extraordinary denial going on in this chamber and in the eu institutions as a whole. i was thinking of what it would be like to be a strutting boulevardier from 100 years ago, with an exquisitely embroidered waistcoat, twirling your silver-topped cane, stroking your beautifully-trimmed beard, but your guts inside rotting and your innards being destroyed by syphilis – because we have not addressed the fundamental problem. unemployment is rising, growth is stuck, and those things are going to carry on until we accept that the fundamental problem is that we are applying a single monetary policy to countries with widely-divergent conditions and needs. in one sense we were right to say that the crisis was over. a crisis is a crossroads, a moment of decision, a moment when there is one of two futures. the euro is no longer critical: the squalor, the wretchedness, the poverty and the unemployment have become structural.
mr president, it is very important that we do talk about the urban redevelopment as a contribution to economic growth but i think we have missed an opportunity to talk about some of the very real issues and implications of looking towards urban development for economic growth. have we looked at some of the ideas from my own country, for example, where there is an accusation of a north-south divide? are we looking at urban developments of certain towns at the expense of others? are we also looking at urban development at the expense of rural development so people living in sparsely populated rural areas complain that the focus is all on urban development? why do we find yet another excuse to spend yet more taxpayers’ money without any real economic benefit? surely the best way to promote economic growth and urban development is to pay off our debts. surely the best way to promote economic development is to make sure we do not spend more money than we have coming in and surely the best way to promote economic growth is to create the right conditions for those people to invest in urban and rural developments for economic development.
in writing. − while this report attempts to deal with the renewal of urban areas through cohesion policy, i am afraid that it is sorely lacking in any concrete suggestions which could help town and city centres deliver the employment and growth which europe so much needs. rather, this text focuses on an alternative agenda of using more cohesion funds to integrate marginalised groups in urban areas and attempts to interfere further in the integration of town planning across the eu. the report suggests using more cohesion funding for the technical assistance of local government, which may frequently mean nothing more than a byword for increased bureaucracy. in summary, this disappointing report will do little to help job creators in urban areas, therefore my delegation and i has voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it promotes the redesign of town planning and territorial planning methods. this is important as proper town planning could enrich environmental, commercial, transport and infrastructure policies. in wales we have several large towns and cities and, while focus should not only be put onto developing urban areas, it is vital that our towns and cities are properly designed to ensure investment is coming into these areas.
in writing. − i voted for this report. more than two-thirds of the european population live in urban areas. cities are the source of problems, but are also places where solutions can be found. the urban fabric is a fertile breeding ground for science and technology, culture and innovation. on the other hand, problems such as unemployment, discrimination and poverty can also be concentrated and inflated in cities. similarly, it is where the effects of the economic crisis are most strongly felt and the challenges of reducing the impact of climate change, job creation, well-being and quality of life are played out. it will be the development of our cities that will determine the future of economic, social and territorial development.
in writing. − the cozzolino report on urban redevelopment is particularly pertinent given the recent unrest in cities across northern ireland. the flag protests have resulted in serious damage to the economy and unfortunately to cross-community relations in northern ireland. the urban redevelopment objective of reinforcing a sense of belonging and trust in institutions is vital to the aim of continued peace and prosperity in belfast and more widely across northern ireland. i fully support the call for cohesion funds to contribute to projects supporting social inclusion and integration of communities in urban areas. following the adoption of this report it is now essential that these solid policy objectives are supported by concrete plans. in the case of northern ireland the flag protests may have been the catalyst for the current tension but the underlying issues relating to youth unemployment, education and training still exist. the cozzolino report provides a further opportunity to address these issues in the context of urban redevelopment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on urban redevelopment. more than two thirds of the european population now live in urban areas and it is vitally important that the challenges facing these areas are tackled. i fully support the rapporteur’s view that local development should be strengthened in cohesion policy with a greater focus on ensuring that decisions are made at the level closest to citizens to ensure the greatest impact. i also welcome the report’s focus on urban-rural links to ensure that a strong city economy can have a positive effect on surrounding less populated areas. this is especially important for my constituents in wales, where both cities and the surrounding rural areas can make a valued contribution to generating economic growth.
mr president, as an mep for london, i am pleased to see that this report recognises cities as drivers of economic growth. i am also pleased that the report recognises that the definition of cities is best decided at member state level. structural funds are worth gbp 1 billion to the united kingdom – to london in particular – and they support business urban regeneration in the capital. london should continue to receive these subsidies and they should be delegated to london to be managed directly. nevertheless, i am unable to vote for this report. this is not because i do not agree with its objectives. the report calls for the cohesion funds to be maintained at the current level. cohesion and structural funds are the second largest item in the eu budget, accounting for one-third of the total expenditure. at a time of austerity, the eu budget needs to be cut down to size and this cannot exclude cohesion funds.
mr president, may i say thank you for your speaking english today. it is very welcome though it is not doing very much for my attempts to learn italian because i usually like listening to you in italian so i am split on this one. however, i would like to give this explanation on behalf of the british conservative delegation. this report does contain a number of examples of best practice and cohesion policy across the eu, but our delegation has a number of concerns which prevent us from supporting the report. first and foremost, the report calls for the cohesion budget post-2013 to be maintained at its present level. for our delegation this is unacceptable. savings can easily be made by restricting funding to those regions and member states which really need the funds. the report also inflates the supposed importance of the bureaucratic european groupings of territorial cooperation. none of these presently exist in the uk and our government rightly sees no fruitful reason ever to introduce them. we also take a sceptical view of the support for the proposed eu macro-regional strategies, which undermine national governments and lead to the creation of artificial entities with little popular support.
mr president, the report on territorial development and cohesion policy focuses on how to improve the funding programmes in the forthcoming 2014–2020 mmf, but it is too prescriptive, and its advocacy for increased funding is frankly not acceptable. funding needs to be reduced. nevertheless, i do welcome the stress on subsidiarity and flexibility. contrary to the commission’s wishes, the definition of cities and urban areas – and i represent london – must be decided at member state level, given the differing size and economic and administrative resources in each member state. this approach demonstrates a growing rejection of a one-size-fits-all funding model and shows that subsidiarity works, and i welcome that. it also increases democratic and administrative accountability. we need to simplify the process of applying for eu funding in general. the uk is currently undertaking a sub-regional process, where eu funds are placed under a single portal allowing a common platform with a single application, payments, monitoring and evaluation process. this shift from supranational to subregional approach for the application of funding represents a positive change for structural funds beyond 2013, and i welcome that aspect of the report.
mr president, while we are talking about stimulus and promoting growth and cohesion, let me read you the latest unemployment figures for youth unemployment. france: 27%; ireland: 30%; portugal: 39%; spain: 57%; greece: 58%. this is the reality of what is happening outside these chambers while we congratulate ourselves on all of the stimulus packages which we are decreeing. there was an almost perfect symbolism when it emerged that, in the last mandate, the president of the commission and president of the european council had flown to the same summit in russia in two separate private jets. that is, if you like, in microcosm, the eu’s approach to job creation. why have just one private jet when you can stimulate the economy twice as much by having two private jets? why have just one bureaucracy when you can have twice as many regulations by having two parallel bureaucracies? why, indeed, stop at having just the eurocrats when you can have an army of consultants and contractors and other rent-seekers stimulating the economy around them? the truth, colleagues, is that the money has run out in the private sector because of our policies. and since that is the money that is paying all of us, there ought to come a moment when it starts to worry you too.
mr president, what is cohesion policy? in simple terms, cohesion policy is a way of ensuring transfers of taxpayers’ money from richer countries to poorer countries or from richer regions to poorer regions. some see it in more political terms and some see it as a sort of socialistic utopia of redistribution of wealth but, whatever happens or however you view cohesion policy, you have to accept that the money comes from somewhere and that money comes from the taxpayer. that is why, at a time when countries across the eu and across the world are having to tighten their belts and cut spending, it is ridiculous to suggest that the cohesion budget for 2014-2020 should be maintained at current levels. as my colleague julie girling said earlier, it is quite right that they should focus spending on those areas of most urgent need. we should all tighten our belts and we should focus on those areas that really need the money because, at the end of the day, the money comes from somewhere and we have to ensure that we encourage wealth creation to create those taxes that people can spend to create those services that we want to see. but the best way to do it is for less government spending and to make sure that there is good use of government spending when there is.
in writing. − this report outlines yet another excuse to spend more taxpayers’ money without any real economic benefit. it calls for cohesion funds to be maintained at the current level – cohesion and structural funds are the second largest item in the eu budget, accounting for one third of the total expenditure. the report also inflates the supposed importance of the bureaucratic european groupings of territorial cooperation. cohesion policy is a way of ensuring the transfer of taxpayers’ money from richer countries to poorer countries, or from richer regions to poorer regions. it feeds into the proposed eu macro-regional strategies, which undermine national governments and lead to the creation of artificial identities. i voted against.
in writing. − i congratulate the rapporteur on the work in bringing forward these reports. my constituency of northern ireland has seen real progress, especially since the creation of stable devolution in 2007. however we are still on that journey and many in this chamber will have seen the scenes of violence from belfast in recent days. these riots have been immediately sparked by the actions of sinn fein, the sdlp and the alliance party in supporting a decision to remove the union flag from belfast city hall and to fly it only on certain days. however the problems in these areas are very significant. they are the result of years of violence, high levels of unemployment and low educational attainment. the youth unemployment rate in northern ireland is around 20 %, and even higher in areas of inner city violence. young people need to find their place in creating a stable society in northern ireland. therefore, i encourage this house to support a further tranche of peace funding, focusing on youth unemployment and capacity building in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i believe that synergies need to be created between cohesion policy and other eu policies to ensure that cohesion funds are being spent effectively and address current employment and social challenges. in wales, we receive convergence funding in the west and the valleys and competiveness in the east; we need to ensure that these funds are complementing projects in other policy areas in order to boost our economy. furthermore, i welcome the community-led local development instrument as more initiatives should be led by the actors affected in the community. in wales we still have strong communities, but we need to empower them in order to strengthen them.
in writing. − i voted for this report which considers that the territorial approach should prove an effective mechanism for supporting smes in creating new sustainable jobs and initiating or developing vocational training programmes; it considers that entrepreneurial activity aimed at growth and employment and the tapping of potential can work across administrative territorial boundaries, and it calls on the member states to improve the existing conditions for new entrepreneurs in order to better exploit their high potential for creating new sustainable jobs.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the vaughan report and in particular the emphasis on the need to align funding programmes such as horizon 2020 with cohesion funding. the pursuit of synergies which can maximise the return on the investments made from the eu budget is both worthwhile and long overdue. furthermore i welcome the commission’s integrated urban development plan and the agenda for community-led local development (clld). clld shares characteristics with the northern ireland neighbourhood renewal schemes, which have been a widely successful means of urban regeneration in northern ireland. i agree with this report’s assertion that it is essential that instruments are developed which will enable clld to become more than merely a strategic tool. bottom-up participation in local communities is without doubt the best way to ensure the effectiveness of funding programmes and to prevent overlap between projects. in my constituency of northern ireland we are very aware of the unique needs of each community. cohesion policy holds incredible potential to develop valuable projects tailored to the needs of individual communities, however in order to achieve this we must invest in the participation of local actors.
mr president, i am delighted to be able to defy the stereotype on this one, and confirm that my delegation voted for this report on the european solidarity fund. on many occasions in this chamber we have heard about the difficulties with administration and we have heard about the difficulties with allocation, and it seems that there is a general desire to reform, rather than abolish, the fund. we welcome the acknowledgement that in these challenging economic times there is no sustainable argument for increasing the budget line allocated to the fund. rather, the report concentrates on improving the functioning of the fund and particularly on the issues of speed and simplicity and getting the money to where it is needed as quickly as possible and with as little loss through administration as possible. i have particular experience of this, representing the only region in the uk that has ever received solidarity funds – in 2007 – when we had some very bad flooding. i can confirm that those funds arrived almost two years after the event and they were simply used for paying back money which had already been advanced by the uk government. i do not feel that was actually how the fund was structured.
mr president, the report on the eu solidarity fund dealing with assistance to member states following national disasters, acknowledges that austerity across the union precludes an increase in the budget line allocated to the fund and this aspect i particularly welcome. so i also welcome the commission’s recent decisions that changes in the solidarity fund will not impose any additional financial burden on both the member states and the eu’s budget. how best can the fund do its job? although various member states have in recent years benefited from the fund, the report rightly criticises the legal and practical difficulties of accessing the fund. the demand for access to this fund requires the commission to simplify procedures in order to prevent further delays. the time taken is unacceptably long and greater flexibility is now needed. however, the solidarity fund does provide added value and has played a valuable role in rebuilding damaged infrastructure in affected territories such as italy – the country you come from mr president – after the earthquake.
mr president, when we look at the number of funds which are available – the cohesion funds, the globalisation funds and other funds – there is quite clearly a level of scepticism in my country about these funds just being viewed as taking hard-working taxpayers’ money away to be spent elsewhere. however, i have to say in the case of the solidarity fund, there is some understanding of the need for such a fund because, of course, when there is a natural disaster or people are suffering it is quite right that other countries, neighbouring countries, seek to help those neighbours in a time of need by showing true solidarity. i welcome the fact that, with some of the other reforms proposed for the solidarity fund, we are looking at proper reform; we are not looking to increase the budget line and we are making sure that it really is used for those cases when it needs to be used. if only we could apply the same principles to some of the other funds that we have discussed today and at other times. if only we applied the same principles to those funds to make sure that we are only spending taxpayers’ money where it is really needed – and not for political purposes, but to help those most in need – then perhaps some of those other funds would get the support of the british conservatives, as happened today.
in writing. − these funds are primarily being viewed as taking hard-working taxpayers’ money away to spend it elsewhere. if there is a natural disaster or people are suffering, it is quite right that other countries, neighbouring countries, seek to help those neighbours in a time of need by showing true solidarity and providing financial support. we believe, however, that those monies should rather be given by the uk government, which in itself has a long history as a financial donor.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as, as it stands, the rules regarding eligibility for those member states that have been hit by natural disasters are unclear. it is of utmost importance that these rules are clarified in order for those countries hit by natural disasters to receive the aid that they require. recently, in wales, we have been hit by heavy flooding, many people saw their homes damaged and businesses suffered; clearer rules in the eu solidarity fund would enable us to know what support we can receive from the eu in such times.
in writing. − following the devastating floods in central europe in 2002, and given the lack of a tool that would enable it to respond in order to assist the population and member state affected by a disaster, the union created a new instrument: the european union solidarity fund. since then, not even minor changes have been made to the regulation governing the solidarity fund to adapt it to the new needs and correct some of the shortcomings that have become apparent in its 10 years of operation. since its creation and up to september 2012, the fund has provided financial aid to offset the damage caused by 49 disasters, chiefly fires and floods. in recent years, the commission has been receiving a growing number of applications, partly because more disasters have occurred and partly because the current rules are not sufficiently clear so as to remove doubts on the possible eligibility of disasters where applications are submitted under the exceptional rules for ‘extraordinary regional disasters’. in many cases, member states make these applications under pressure from both their citizens and their political rivals, who demand decisive action and responses by the union and their own national authorities. it is therefore crucial that the current regulation be revised in time for the new financial period 2014-2020.
in writing. − this report on the implementation and application of the european union solidarity fund has my support. the eusf, which grants aid to provide much needed support for a variety of different natural disasters, has proven to be a successful instrument on the whole, although some shortcomings have been identified. i voted for this report because i believe it is a positive step towards addressing some of these shortcomings, hopefully resulting in a clarification of the access criteria, particularly regarding regional disasters, and a reduction in bureaucracy for the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. − while the proposal is for a law governing eu administrative law, one must assume that this will, in time, lead to an overarching eu administrative law, which has primacy over domestic uk administrative law in uk courts. it is for this reason that my delegation voted against the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which called on the commission to produce a proposal for a european law of administrative procedure. one of the complaints that are made by my constituents in wales is that there is too much bureaucracy in the european union. many companies and other organisations are deterred from working with the eu by the prospect of weighty administration. this law would apply to all the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies in their relations with the public and would guarantee more open, efficient and independent administration. i believe it is a necessary reform and crucial to building a better, more open european union.
in writing. − i voted for this report. trust in the administration could be significantly increased by preparing an administrative code which applies to all of the eu’s institutions and which defines the principles and practices of good administration. article 298 of the treaty of lisbon provides for the drafting of such a regulation, stating that: ‘in carrying out their missions, the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union shall have the support of an open, efficient and independent european administration. in compliance with the staff regulations and the conditions of employment adopted on the basis of article 336, the european parliament and the council, acting by means of regulations in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall establish provisions to that end.’
mr president, along with my fellow uk conservative meps, i voted against this report. we firmly believe that such proposals for a legal act would be disproportionate and add little value to the needs of businesses facing restructuring. i understand the political wish to be doing something to help workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. but the recommendations in this report will create burdens for employers facing restructuring which will restrict their flexibility and thus further damage jobs in the future. in particular, it calls for companies to give an early explanation and justification to all relevant stakeholders, and would also make companies responsible for ensuring that ‘surveillance and counselling aimed to avoid or minimise the negative impact of the restructuring process on both the physical and psycho-social for both redundant workers, if any, and those staying’ is provided. we do not believe that it is the role of the european parliament to call for such initiatives. we believe that adapting to change requires an integrated approach covering multiple areas, including industrial employment, education and innovation and not the unrealistic and impractical proposals contained in this report.
mr president, i and my fellow conservatives voted against this report; it is really just a socialist wish list which would destroy the ability of struggling companies to stay afloat. from reading the report you would be forgiven for thinking that there is no legislation governing redundancy and restructuring, but there is. the report contains many very worrying recommendations that would just create new burdens for companies at the very time when they need to move promptly and effectively to restructure, to save jobs and to save the business. redundancy is a very painful and demoralising experience for all concerned but our attention should be focused on how to encourage new job creation and new employment opportunities rather than wasting effort in denying the reality of business today.
in writing. − the report does not impose any substantial obligations on companies and employers as regards restructuring processes, nor does it seek to improve workers’ rights to information and consultation. it considers workers to be a flexibility reserve who have to ‘adapt’ to any changing circumstances or new strategy of the company. companies should strive to increase their ‘competitiveness’ by becoming ‘flexible firms’, also by promoting workers’ ‘internal and external mobility’. despite these shortcomings i voted in favour of the report because it puts pressure on the commission to take legislative action on the information and consultation of workers, at which point these shortcomings can be addressed.
in writing. − this report would destroy the ability of struggling companies to stay afloat. when reading it you would be forgiven for thinking that there is no existing legislation governing redundancy and restructuring when, in fact, there is. redundancy is a very painful and demoralising experience for all concerned but our attentions should be focused on encouraging new job creation and new employment opportunities, rather than wasting our efforts in denying the reality of business today. the report puts forward a series of very worrying recommendations that would do little more that create additional burdens for companies and employers at the very time when they need to move promptly and effectively to restructure, to save jobs and to save businesses.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report calling for a new law on restructuring and the need to inform and consult with employees. this is an issue of vital importance to wales and one in which i have campaigned in the european parliament over many years. wales has suffered badly from the restructuring of heavy industry and from companies closing or moving elsewhere with little regard for the people or the communities who have served them loyally. the closure of the burberry factory in the rhondda was a stark example of this, as was the friction dynamex case in caernarfon. we cannot always prevent job losses, but we can ensure that workers are aware of possible problems well in advance, can take part in the debate on future options, rather than just redundancy, and are provided with proper skills and training if they need to seek work elsewhere. i believe that this new law is essential.
in writing. − i voted for this report. when dealing with the anticipation, preparation and management of restructuring, companies, workers’ representatives, the public authorities and the other stakeholders, each in their respective capacity and competence, and at a moment which corresponds to their different responsibilities, act in a spirit of cooperation, based on timely and comprehensive information and consultation, whilst recognising that those processes aim to protect at the same time the interests of companies as regards competitiveness and sustainability and those of their workers. for restructuring to be economically successful and socially responsible, it requires to be integrated into a long-term strategy aimed at ensuring and strengthening the long-term sustainability and competitiveness of the company. it also requires putting human resources at the heart of companies’ strategic development. employers respect anti-discrimination legislation, particularly in the field of age discrimination, when selecting the workers targeted for redundancy. anticipation, preparation and management of change takes place in the context of strengthening social dialogue and with a view to promoting change in a manner compatible with the preservation of the priority objectives of competitiveness and employment, as well as with the health of workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report – which calls on the commission to ease the negative impacts of restructuring by ensuring that workers are consulted throughout the process – because it is vitally important that workers’ rights are upheld during these precarious economic times. my own constituency, wales, has been hit particularly badly by widespread redundancies and factory closures, so i fully support the recommendations in this report. setting eu-wide minimum standards to guarantee that employees are consulted during the restructuring process would help protect those affected and rectify the current discrepancies between national governments’ different approaches to restructuring.
mr president, in 2012, the food and agricultural organization estimated that more than eight million people were in critical need of aid in the horn of africa. chronic and pervasive food and sanitation challenges in the region were only exacerbated by the drought, which was the worst in six years. over 13 million people were affected, forcing hundreds of thousands to flee their homes and killing the tens of thousands who starved to death. the european union started the share programme and we have now provided about eur 270 million, which will help people in that area to grow better food, to build emergency interventions and strengthen the livelihoods of agro-pastoral communities and help them to grow food, because we have been giving them aid for a long time but not helping them to grow more food. we have changed our policy and we are now going to help them to grow more food. but piracy, for example in somalia, has become an acute problem. there are now some 700 pirates arrested and not tried for this gross violation of international law. gbp 170 million has been paid in ransoms in england alone to pirates. it has become an industry. the ransoms are paid; people get commissions; the pirates get the money. we have to go after the people who are arranging and managing the piracy. catching little chaps off the boats is one thing, but to get at the people who are behind it all is a key strategy that we should put into place, to try them in our international courts.
in writing. − it is true that the european union is the most important donor and provider of humanitarian aid in the region and we must, therefore, continue to encourage efforts for deeper democracy, political stability and economic development there. however, my delegation and i firmly believe that control over our involvement in foreign affairs should be returned to the uk and that the british government should be the only one to decide what position they will take on the issue and how they will act on it. we do not need the eu to represent us there as we can do it ourselves.
in writing. − i abstained on the final vote because this report puts too much emphasis on piracy and ignores many of the other problems in the region. i voted against the amendments which characterised the majority of somali people as terrorists, which is damaging to the somali community in wales as well. the rapporteur wants international recognition of somaliland and the text refers to a federal state. in paragraphs 63 and 64 it outlines the positive example that somaliland has played so far in somalia’s development. in line with the european free alliance’s support for decentralisation and self-determination, i voted for these clauses supporting somaliland’s efforts to become a ‘reliable area’ in the country. however, these votes were lost.
in writing. − i voted for this report: ‘welcomes the eu strategy for the horn of africa, and in particular its comprehensive approach based on tackling the security and stability concerns, enforcing the rule of law and ensuring due process, which must include functioning law enforcement mechanisms and procedures as well as an independent judicial system, whilst addressing the underlying causes thereof, in particular through developmental and humanitarian strategies based on clear objectives; urges the full implementation of the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa and supports its five prongs based on: (i) building democratic, robust and accountable political structures in all countries of the horn of africa; (ii) working with the countries of the region and with regional and international actors and organisations to resolve conflicts, including through addressing their root causes; (iii) ensuring that existing insecurity in the region does not threaten the security of other neighbouring states or other regions or countries; (iv) supporting efforts to promote economic growth and reduce poverty; (v) supporting political and economic regional cooperation; stresses the importance of promoting sustainable economic growth in the region and reducing poverty, by responding to the basic needs of people’.
mr president, the protection of intellectual property is a very important matter in terms of biodiversity. however, biodiversity is diminishing at an alarming rate; it is estimated that more than a quarter of the world’s original natural biodiversity had gone by the year 2000. a further 11% of land biodiversity is expected to be lost by the year 2050. this is reducing global gdp by 3% each year, i am told. now these are very clever people making all these estimates, but i recognise that this is a very serious matter. we fully approve the general principles outlined by the rapporteur. however, we cannot support the mechanisms suggested in paragraphs 28, 32 and 33, as the solutions proposed consist of prior informed consent and mandatory requirements on disclosing the origin of genetic resources during the patent proceedings. the proposal in its current form, i am afraid – and rather regret – to say is incoherent, impractical and impossible to implement. it would indeed generate further confusion in the area of intellectual property rights. so for these reasons, i regret that we had to vote against this report, although the principle of the report and what it was trying to get out and establish in the law was very good. however, the way our rapporteur – who on other occasions i agree with – has gone about this report is a bit incoherent.
mr president, the protection of intellectual property in general safeguards and encourages creativity, innovation and enterprise. this particular report deals with the protection and preservation of genetic diversity and in common with our work on other committees, our concerns on environmental and species biodiversity, genetic diversity must be protected. my group supports effective measures combating bio-piracy but we do have some serious concerns. to mention just one, we have major reservations about the calls for prior informed consent and mandatory requirements on disclosing the origin of genetic resources during patent proceedings. we also believe that further work must be carried out to clarify and consolidate the legal terminology in this area. as interest and legislation in this area grow, this legal terminology is extremely important.
mr president, the report on the development aspects of intellectual property rights and genetic resources overlaps with a key component of the mdg, namely the global protection and preservation of biodiversity, which is being lost at an alarming rate. in this context, biopiracy, which is the misappropriation of indigenous medicinal plant knowledge, has also emerged as a concern for developing countries. in principle i support effective measures combating biopiracy, not least concerning its definition. i also support assistance to developing countries that are engaged in legal and institutional capacity-building to improve the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights, but it would be premature to regulate this sector with a binding instrument in the absence of clear definitions. we have particular reservations about the idea of mandatory informed consent. we should also be aware of the ongoing wipo negotiations and ensure that any resulting agreement is compatible with the cbd nagoya protocol. ensuring protection of intellectual property rights requires clarity and the enforcement of current legislation, not necessarily new european union law.
in writing. − meps welcome a recent proposal by the commission to implement the nagoya protocol which aims to protect the rights of countries and local communities that allow their genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge to be used. however, we have major reservations about the calls for prior informed consent and mandatory requirements on disclosing the origin of genetic resources during patent proceedings. we also believe that further work must be carried out to clarify and consolidate the legal terminology in this area – as interest in this area grows, this legal terminology is extremely important. it is for this reason that i abstained from voting.
in writing. − i voted for this own-initiative report by my colleague in the group because more work is needed to tackle biopiracy. this is a major problem in developing countries. we should have respect for genetic resources and traditional knowledge in these countries which are essential for sustainable agriculture and food security. we in wales respect diversity, whether cultural, biological or genetic. we are also acutely aware of the rights of farmers in developing countries as well as the rights of indigenous communities. i know this from the many constituents who contact me on development and human rights issues.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the protection and preservation of genetic diversity is a key component of the achievement of the millennium development goals. genetic resources (gr) are particularly essential for sustainable agriculture and food security. furthermore, genetic diversity is one of the most important components for the survival of the species and the ecosystem’s resilience. therefore, the loss of genetic diversity that occurs as part of the biodiversity erosion process represents a key challenge for humanity. in spite of its vital importance for human survival, genetic diversity is being lost at an alarming increased rate. such erosion of diversity sets new challenges for both holders and users of gr, the former being most often biodiversity-rich developing countries, the latter being usually developed countries in this context biopiracy has emerged as a major concern for developing countries. although there is no general definition of the term ‘biopiracy’, it usually refers to a situation in which biological resources are taken from local communities or indigenous people and are patented while the resulting profits do not benefit the communities which originated the resources, disclosed their properties and have used them.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president and mr chancellor, thank you very much for joining us here today, although i feel that i must apologise on behalf of the chamber for mr verhofstadt spending no time whatsoever speaking about the speech that you actually made, and instead spending all of his time talking about a speech that he has not even heard yet from david cameron. but i suppose that this is typical of what we should expect from the liberals, talking about something that has not even happened. however, to be fair to him he is improving. i never thought i would hear the day when mr verhofstadt approvingly quoted margaret thatcher in this chamber, but i will send you my book of margaret thatcher quotations for some future pearls of wisdom. it is vital that we do have a serious debate about the future of europe; a debate in which the full scale of europe’s crisis should be addressed. this is not just about fixing the euro, which is of course very important. it is about recognising that, in a global marketplace, europe faces ever greater challenges that threaten our long-term future. it is about understanding that public opinion across the continent is increasingly alarmed at europe’s direction. it is just not good enough, as a number of speakers have done, to dismiss people’s concerns as ignorant or – our favourite word in this chamber – populist. if the people have stopped trusting the eu, it is because many in this chamber and the eu seem to have stopped trusting the people themselves and that is an attitude that, in my view, has to change. i think we need a new direction for europe; i think we need to articulate a modern message setting out a new vision for europe. we want to see european cooperation succeed, but this will require radical change in how we think and how we operate, because today the eu stands at a crossroads. as the columnist clive crook recently wrote, the european project is in trouble because the model of a single, ever-closer union has now moved so far away from the reality of what people want and what economies can stand. that is why the eu needs a new model, not of inward-looking, ever-closer union, but a union of flexibility and of practicality. so how can we achieve this? well, firstly we can respond to the crisis by opening our markets, by freeing enterprise from the dead hand of the state. we can address the democratic deficit if we recognise that the nation state is not an outdated concept, as many believe in this house, but the building block of legitimate government. we can take a practical, commonsense approach to solving our common problems, rather than allowing ourselves to be driven by ideology. and here are a few places where we could start: a critical review of the entire community acquis; slashing regulation that burdens our markets and businesses and costs thousands of jobs; a political drive to reinvigorate the single market through widening its scope and developing the digital economy; a thorough reprioritisation line-by-line of the eu budget that is focused on adding real value to european competitiveness, and a change in gear in our efforts to open trade with the usa, with india and other emerging economies where the growth in our world today is actually occurring, unlike in europe. these reforms will only be possible if we put an end to the mentality that, as politicians, we have the answers to everyone’s problems. in addition to margaret thatcher, i am particularly fond of paraphrasing ronald reagan: the ten most terrifying words in the english language are: i am from the eu and i am here to help. often our good intentions have unintended consequences. we can make it harder for people to take responsibility for themselves or for businesses which deliver economic growth and employment. if europe’s future is to be one of economic vibrancy, then we have to realise that often the best thing politicians can do is simply get out of the way. the euro crisis has in fact broken the consensus that we can just continue with business as usual. we need a fresh start; we need a new model not an à la carte europe, nor a europe with first and second classes of membership but a flexible model, all converging around the single market to which every member state can contribute according to their needs and interests. a europe where all are equally valued and respected; a union that is genuinely united in diversity.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, it seems that chancellor faymann understands some of the problems which are facing europe, and yet his solution of course is more europe. this represents the triumph of hope over experience, of ideological prejudice over everyday reality. the fact is that the european union is in long-term relative decline. in 1990, the european union amounted to around 30% of global gdp. today the figure is about 20% of global gdp. by 2050 it might be 10% of global gdp, or even less if we choose to cling on to emission targets which would scarcely sustain a primitive agrarian economy. the reasons for this decline are not hard to find. first of all, the european union is a customs union, but customs unions are an old-fashioned sub-optimal 19th century trade model, so much so that virtually nobody else in the world chooses to use them. secondly, the eu’s customs union is overlaid by the dead weight of hugely expensive and onerous regulation which is squeezing the lifeblood out of our industry. european regulation is credibly estimated at costing gbp 100 billion a year, and that is just in the uk. thirdly, we have an energy policy which is giving europe the most expensive energy in the world. it is undermining our competitiveness. it is driving energy-intensive businesses offshore, taking their jobs and their investment with them. it is forcing households and pensioners into fuel poverty, yet it is failing to cut emissions. the eu is squandering money on wind farms which, by the way, chancellor, are hopelessly unsustainable. the eu is mortgaging our grandchildren and yet it is achieving nothing. fourthly, we have the disaster of the single currency, which was described by former british chancellor lord lawson as the most irresponsible political adventure of the post-war era. mr barroso boasts that the worst of the euro crisis is over. do not believe him. nothing the eu has done will address the massive imbalances in competitiveness between the north and the south. it will take more than a few ad hoc bail-outs. it will require permanent long-term massive fiscal transfers from north to south, but those will be unacceptable to german taxpayers, just as the austerity, the unemployment, the grinding deflation you are seeking to impose in southern europe will be unacceptable to voters. the eu itself may break up. you already have a divisive policy for fiscal and banking union in the eurozone which is driving a wedge between the eurozone and the rest. in my country, the uk, there is increasing opposition to eu membership. the prime minister seeks to appease this opposition by demanding repatriation of powers, but his demands will not be welcome in brussels and will not satisfy the people either. the voters have understood that eu membership is making us poorer, and less democratic and less free. the people want freedom, independence and democracy. they have concluded rightly that we shall be better off out.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the situation in mali has rapidly become one of the most pressing and alarming issues facing the globe, both in humanitarian terms and in the wider international context of security. ever since i was appointed as rapporteur for human rights in the sahel, the outlook on the ground has deteriorated beyond measure. we face a grave situation in this once thriving democracy. the atrocities reported now in northern mali of widespread sexual violence, recruitment of child soldiers and public amputations have shocked us all, not to mention the cultural desecration of timbuktu and other heritage sites. the al-qa’ida-backed ansar dine and islamist allies aqim and mujao now threaten to overcome the whole of mali, destroying that country’s legitimate government and plunging the malian people into an islamist dictatorship and a potential terrorist haven for terrorists and jihadis globally. already we are in the grips of a refugee crisis. this is no arab spring, and the terrorists are certainly no liberators. such an outcome would be catastrophic not only for mali, but for africa and the wider world as well. a country controlled by such extreme and merciless terrorists would pose an incalculable risk to regional and global security. therefore my group, the ecr, endorses france’s military campaign. it is not an easy course of action and nobody likes the sight of planes dropping bombs on any country, but we must appreciate the exceptional circumstances of this operation. it has been instigated at the express request of the legitimate government in bamako, which has been overwhelmed by the terrorists. crucially, ecowas troops will now reportedly be arriving within a matter of days to ensure that this operation will be jointly african-led and jointly executed. we must now ensure that the intervention in mali achieves its aims quickly and successfully, with the utmost care taken to avoid civilian casualties. algeria must be thanked for allowing overflight rights, and the uk prime minister, david cameron, is to be congratulated for his military assistance to french president hollande and to french troops in their transportation by aircraft. this is another sign of european states working together to help an african country achieve the objectives of peace, stability and freedom that we in europe too often take for granted.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner. this is the third piece of legislation we have discussed on credit rating agencies since the crisis. i hope it will be the last for some time, because the commission is still implementing the first two pieces. i sometimes think we are too ready to pass legislation before we have seen the effect of the legislation we have already passed. let us be clear: credit rating agencies have been guilty of bad practice, especially in relation to the us subprime crisis, but they were not responsible for the current euro crisis. that was caused by the poor construction of the euro in the first place and bad and unsound economic policies pursued by greeks and other governments. i sense in this chamber a certain sense by which they want to pass the blame for overspending by national governments onto the credit rating agencies and in that regard i think a european credit ratings agency would be a disaster. funded by the taxpayer, regulated by the commission – who in the market would believe a word that it ever said? there are some small measures in this legislation which are useful. the measures to increase competition are good, the measures to reduce over-reliance on ratings are useful and there are also the measures to prevent and deal with conflicts of interests. but i am afraid that an awful lot of this legislation is legislating for the sake of it and it will not correct the harm, which is that too many governments in europe are spending and borrowing too much.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this is a very complicated subject. of course the credit rating agencies were not blameless in the subprime crisis, nor in the credit crunch that followed. lord knows i have castigated them in this chamber enough, but since 2008 they have improved. they have been honest with the markets about the worthless government debt of greece, ireland, portugal, spain, if not yet the united kingdom and the united states. but are we to crush the rating agencies with regulation? recall how they rate government debt: you require the rating agencies to get the prior approval of the regulator, esma, for their methodologies so that you can manipulate the calculations behind the scenes. then, in order to control when they publicise their work, you force the rating agencies to disclose to esma the dates on which they are going to provide ratings on government debt and to limit those dates to three times a year. this is so that you will not suffer the embarrassment of a downgrade or negative outlook just before a critical auction of government paper. then, to control where the rating agencies work, you insist that some of the work is done in the jurisdiction of government debt so that you can intimidate the analysts in the same way that the offices of credit rating agencies have been raided by government bodies in places such as italy. then, to control who does the work, you insist not only on the rotation of credit rating agencies themselves, but also on the individual analysts who work and have experience on particular debt and the assets that back them. finally, to control the purpose of providing credit ratings, you seek to remove references to and reliance upon ratings, both within the workings of government and in private investment funds. much of this is actually an attack on free speech. the world is watching you, frankly. can you be trusted? i believe that this is a regulation to castrate the rating agencies and turn them into government eunuchs to vainly protect the chastity of the euro, a currency born out of wedlock and without a dowry. i fear that we will find ourselves back exactly in the position where we started.
mr president, tomorrow in westminster the fresh start group of mps will launch its manifesto. this manifesto describes possible changes to the uk’s relationship with the eu whilst staying in the single market. instead of sweeping generalisations, fresh start looks at details and options, and i welcome this. the current proposal on rating agencies is just another example of why legislation designed by the eurozone should not be cut and pasted into the uk. the uk wants international investment, and when our rating is threatened, we try to improve the credit worthiness, not gag the agency. it is these details that can drive a wedge between a free-market, trading-nation vision of the eu, and a sometimes protectionist, often inflexible european union. to my colleagues from other countries, i say this: if you want to use the single currency to turn the single market into a federation, then the uk cannot be part of it, but if you want to keep the single market as a free market, then you should want to keep the uk in. if you want to do that, then you need to listen to the reformists when they ask for some renegotiations. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – of course i am concerned about the future of the euro, but there are 27 members in the european union and 17 in the euro, and that has been true ever since the mastricht treaty 20 years ago. it is the anniversary now of when the uk said they would not join the euro, but our future economically is very important and it is linked. if you want to do protectionist measures – and i am afraid i view gagging rating agencies and telling them that there are limitations on how often they can issue warnings to the markets as a gag – then that should not happen across all 27 different countries. it is a little example, but yet another example. i do not want to leave the single market but, if you force us to leave it, because you try to put the rules for the euro on the whole of europe, then you end up forcing the uk out. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mrs lulling, you are a very great friend of free markets, so it is exactly to members like you that i address my issues. i think we need to stop making sweeping statements – in, out, with no discussion of the consequences, is exactly what feeds the fire of the ukip voter. what i support is a piece of work that is looking at detail, at the debate and at the options. please, tomorrow morning, when this is launched by a large group of conservative thinkers, will you give us the benefit of your many years of wisdom and help us see whether some of these problems can be solved with the uk still staying in the single market, but recognising that there are differences and that the rules for the euro cannot be cut and pasted across all 27 different member states if you want to keep us in the single market.
mr president, i must admit that my curiosity was raised by this report. contrary to its normal strategy of centralising and seizing control as much as possible, the eu is now proposing that banks and investment firms assess for themselves the credit risk of entities or instruments in which they invest, and is asking them not to rely on external ratings. the report even proposes to take ratings out of the financial regulation and eliminate risk-weighting of assets through external rating or internal models. how this would contribute to making the evaluation of risk independent or avoid conflicts of interests, is really a mystery to me. whether we like it or not, these agencies provide an independent view, and the fact that some would find that they have become too powerful is no basis for them being muscled out in such a way. it is as if the eu wants to remove any analytical road blocks that stand in its way. i wonder why. in response to mrs lulling, i would like to say yes, the uk should leave the eu.
blue-card question. – what makes you think that a public agency of the kind that you are outlining would have the confidence of the markets, or, for that matter, the confidence of anybody?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i do not think it will surprise anyone in this chamber that i and my group are opposed to these so-called stability bonds. i cannot understand why we are even discussing the concept of mutualising sovereign debt when the current proposals on banking union are at such an early stage. the three pillars of banking union are far from fully erected. while we sit in hours of trialogue over the single supervisory mechanism to give the ecb supervisory powers over some eurozone banks, the work being done on recovery and resolution plans is going slowly and coming up against any number of legal roadblocks erected by different member states. the deposit guarantee scheme proposal has languished for council for months and months, three pillars requiring less sharing of sovereignty proving difficult to deliver. this report is calling for the mutualisation of debt through common issuance of bonds and goes much further than any of the banking union proposals that we are currently discussing. therefore it is disingenuous for this parliament to vote it through tomorrow. the proposal is not about increasing stability, but exposing divisions between all of those within the eurozone and those signed up to join it.
madam president, i agree with the premise of mr pallone’s report and i thank him for all his hard work. i believe that there is a lot of helpful analysis of how to manage public finances which i hope my welsh regional government will pay some attention to. in the current climate of fiscal consolidation and enhanced scrutiny of all public expenditure, governments at all levels should be looking very hard at what they can justify putting public money into. while this report raises a point about spending on expensive military equipment, i would ask that my own welsh government think long and hard about spending tens of millions of pounds of taxpayers’ money on purchasing their local cardiff airport. when a private company that successfully runs airports in stockholm, london and orlando cannot make it operate sustainably, how can the welsh government and their civil servants think they can do a better job using taxpayers’ money? i am not entirely sure how purchasing a poorly-performing airport is going to prove a wise investment of public funds. as this report suggests, instead of pet government projects wasting scarce public funds, we should instead be spending this limited public money wisely and investing in jobs and growth for our future.
author. − madam president, on behalf of the committee for transport and tourism, i introduce this debate this evening on the issue officially of weights and dimensions but on what has become known as mega trucks or gigaliners. the oral question tabled today is intended to follow-up on the legal question which parliament raised last year over the commission’s rights to rewrite unilaterally the rules on cross-border traffic of mega trucks without involving the co-legislstors. personally, i do not support the extension of the use of these lorries as proposed because i believe the infrastructure in many countries cannot cope and this could lead to road safety issues, and the effect on the environment and the rail freight sector has not been assessed. what is clear however is that whether you are pro mega trucks or anti there is a strong consensus within the committee that any change to the present position should be done through the codecision process. we cannot accept that something as important as this can be decided in an arbitrary fashion, announced at some conference on the basis that a legal boffin has had a change of mind and done a spectacular u-turn on previous advice. we were told in the past that the extension of mega trucks could not take place under the present legislation. indeed, the commissioner confirmed this in his response to parliamentary questions raised by honourable members. but then, as if by magic, it was the intention of the commission to sneak this change through in the hope that parliament did not notice the change. well, madam president, parliament did notice and what has followed since has been a farcical situation of the commission scurrying around trying to find a way out of the mess it has found itself in. following months of reflection, the commissioner decided to uphold his reinterpretation of the present legislation, even though in his letter to me he acknowledged that the current directive is not completely unambiguous. even president barroso in his letter to president schulz acknowledged that a full revision of the legislation would be an opportunity to provide full legal clarity. i ask the commissioner this evening to agree with me that the present legislation is unclear and that in those circumstances he has a duty to end that uncertainty by putting forward for parliament’s consideration, a full revision of this legislation which addresses the issues of cross-border mega trucks. i am told, commissioner, that you do not intend to do that, which in my view just compounds the errors that were made last year. if it is your wish to extend cross-border mega trucks then have the courage of those convictions to bring these changes before parliament, under codecision, for its democratic consideration. commissioner, we need legal clarity and that can only be achieved with the full cooperation of the co-legislators and not on a whim of some lawyer tucked away in the commission. this whole issue has become a mess of the commission’s making and the time has come to sort out that mess by allowing this parliament to carry out its constitutional role as enshrined in the treaties governing the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say good morning to the taoiseach and welcome him to the chamber this morning. on behalf of my group let me welcome the fact that ireland is taking on the presidency at this crucial time and indeed personally, as someone who is half irish, it gives me particular pleasure, taoiseach, to welcome you here this morning and it gives me the opportunity to wish you well. i have every confidence that your presidency will in fact turn out to be a success because ireland has such a distinguished track record during previous presidencies. ireland’s second presidency in 1979 saw the conclusion of the gatt agreement which opened up international trade, the 1990 irish presidency helped to reunify the continent following the fall of the berlin wall and the 2004 irish presidency welcomed many former soviet bloc states into the eu. now, of course, it will not surprise you that my group does not agree with everything that either you have said today or that is included in your presidency priorities but there is a substantial amount on which we can agree. naturally, in particular we welcome your emphasis on growth, on jobs and on stability. we agree with you that developing the single market as a drive of economic growth has to be a key priority. my group has long argued that it is time for the single market to move into the digital age and there is much in the single market 2 act which delivers on this important agenda and we will work with you in attempting to deliver it. in your priorities, you also talk about improving access to finance and, to quote, ‘public procurement for small businesses’. we, of course, welcome that although we will wait to see whether any concrete action actually flows from that statement. my group believes that there is one small but important change that you could make and that is to the council meetings themselves, by creating a dedicated single market council meeting rather than lumping this important policy area into other configurations. it is, of course, as i have said many times essential that we reprioritise europe’s competitiveness. like much of europe, your country was hit hard by the crisis but you have made great progress, as many have said, in your fight back. ireland in my view is a fundamentally competitive economy compared to many other european countries. in particular i congratulate you in having rightly fought to preserve your low corporate tax rates; ireland should be an example to the rest of europe. i am thinking particularly of the socialists and president hollande here, showing that low tax rates do lead to a more competitive economy generating growth and creating wealth. i also, unlike mr cohn-bendit, welcome your very sensible opposition to a financial transaction tax. it will be extremely damaging for many of the member states that have introduced it, but there again that is their problem. luckily mr cohn-bendit will never get the opportunity to spend the vast fantasy sums which he thinks will be raised by it. as you also said in your remarks, we have a unique opportunity in the next few months to make substantial progress on an eu-usa free trade agreement. the first half of 2013 not only sees ireland hold the presidency of the eu but it sees my own country hold the presidency of the g8. i really hope that both presidencies can work hard on such an agreement to get it off the ground. it seems to have gone from a pie-in-the-sky notion to a distinct possibility in a matter of months. the benefits of reducing tariffs are incalculable, both to our economies and across the atlantic, and indeed it will help to build further on the transatlantic partnership. i believe that our people in europe want to see the eu making a difference in those areas where it can genuinely add value. what they do not want to see is more institutional navel gazing or theological blueprints for deepening economic and monetary union. we all know of course that there is little willingness by any member state to shift from their entrenched positions on the eurozone crisis, whether in the north or in the south, so in my view it is important not to waste time and divert scarce resources trying to pretend otherwise. taoiseach, my hope is that you will be able to return here in the summer saying that you have laid the groundwork for a more open and competitive market, for a more complete digital single market and for freer trade with our major economic partners. that indeed would be a worthy legacy of your presidency.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we see there is nothing to worry about! mr barroso told us last week – i think i can say – that the existential threat against the euro has essentially been overcome. nothing to see here; move along – crisis over. mr draghi and angela merkel may well have committed the german taxpayer to unlimited sums of money in order to prop up the eurozone, and certainly ahead of the german elections there is perhaps not much else she could have done – and i do accept that the pressure from the markets, mr barroso, has eased for now. and from your perspective, mr barroso, and from everybody’s perspective i suppose, the champagne is still flowing, the chauffeur-driven cars are shiny, the salaries and of course the expenses are attractive, so everything is rosy in the eu garden. but i do not think we should be kidding anybody, mr barroso, because the fundamentals have not changed. in fact things deteriorated in 2012 – substantially. unemployment has soared, particularly in the mediterranean countries, with youth unemployment now up to 58% in two of those countries. manufacturing, both in the north and south of the eurozone, is eroding with every single month that goes by, and there are the levels of human suffering that we are seeing – with pensions having been cut back, with soup kitchens growing all over the place, and with people in despair – and the prospects for 2013, particularly for the mediterranean, are that it will be worse still. and yet what the commission and you, mr barroso, from your ivory tower, are saying is ‘let them eat cake’. you are showing that the european political class are out of touch, uncaring and simply plain wrong. but i am pleased to say that in britain there is a proper european debate that is starting, driven i suspect by the rise of ukip in the polls, and mr cameron, having postponed it for a few times, will speak this friday on the issue. he wants to renegotiate the eu’s deal; he wants us to have an à la carte menu. well, you may give him some concessions and you may not. his real plan is of course to deflect all of this so that there is not a referendum for five years. that or not, actually the longer this debate goes on, the more likely the uk is to leave the european union. this debate will not stop and i am pleased to say that democracy, the arguments for democracy, are now staging a fight back and i look forward to when the united kingdom does get that referendum. and i hope that many other countries will follow our lead, including ireland, in claiming back their rights of democracy and self-government.
mr president, firstly i would like to wish the irish presidency well in the next number of months. i would also like to concur with the taoiseach’s condemnation of street violence from all quarters in belfast in recent weeks. respect for identity and culture is important in northern ireland, as it is in the rest of europe. i would urge the taoiseach to emphasise this to nationalist politicians from my constituency whom i know that he meets on a frequent and regular basis. the aims of the irish presidency are right and laudable. stability, jobs and growth are essential for all of our constituents. in northern ireland we are heartened that the economy in the irish republic is showing signs of recovery. despite repeated conversations within these institutions, i do not believe that many here actually recognise how difficult it has been for firms and small businesses and, in my part of northern ireland, the impact that the crisis in the irish republic’s economy has had on them. however, over the next number of months of the irish presidency, northern ireland requires changes to its regional aid guidelines. we look forward to your help in gaining a successful outcome, as with fisheries and agriculture.
mr president, i should like to say this to the taoiseach: the presidency programme contains nothing progressive, no investment package, no concrete action to address the unemployment issue or that of the people participating in one of the biggest forced migrations in centuries. we were led to believe that it would be an all-ireland presidency and there is little evidence of that in the programme. transforming the conflict in the north of ireland is most important now, as important as it ever was, as recent events in parts of belfast have borne out. the eu has still a role to play and your government has a very key role to play, so therefore i urge you to take your responsibilities under the good friday agreement, particularly with regard to rights supplementary to the european convention on human rights and therefore the need for a bill of rights, to ensure that the symbols and the emblems are used in a manner which promotes mutual respect, and also to support the good friday agreement’s commitment to a border poll. i wish you well over the next six months.
madam president, as a scot and a fellow celt, can i congratulate ireland on taking over the presidency once again. taoiseach, i am sure i do not have to tell you, but there is a huge weight of expectation bearing down on your shoulders. we have high hopes for your presidency across a whole range of policy areas. i want to say a few words about cap reform because it is very important – speaking as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development – that we make progress on that. taoiseach, you have set out a very ambitious timetable of concluding an agreement between the institutions by the end of your presidency and i welcome that ambition. next week with a bit of luck – a lot of luck, indeed – the agriculture committee here in parliament will vote through our compromises and we stand ready to begin negotiations with the council, subject to an agreement by this house in the plenary at the beginning of march. but one of the big stumbling blocks to progress is the lack of agreement between farm ministers. it is vital that your presidency gets a grip of the council and pushes them hard to reach an agreement by mid-march, otherwise your timetable will be blown off course. taoiseach, i am sure i speak for all of my mep colleagues when i say we look forward to working with you and we look forward to delivering your ambitious timetable and programme.
madam president, one of the great successes of this irish presidency could be the successful negotiation of a reform of the common fisheries policy: putting in place a policy which will allow fish stocks to recover, ending the nonsense of discarding perfectly edible fish, and giving hope for the future. taoiseach, if you are able to do that then i think your success will be rightly heralded, but one of the subtexts of the debate which will not get so much publicity is the two-year long dispute which has existed between the council and this parliament over the long-term management plans for fisheries. this issue has to be resolved if we are to ensure the success of a common fisheries policy reform. at the moment we have not even publicly identified the reasons for the dispute. they have not all been laid on the table. this needs to be done. negotiations need to begin; we need to secure some agreement; flexibility needs to be shown on both sides. i praise your fisheries minister, simon coveney and i think he has already shown more interest in this subject than any of his predecessors in previous years. but i would ask you to take a personal interest in making sure that this longstanding dispute is once and for all resolved.
madam president, as we have heard today, the economy must of course take centre stage. taoiseach, you have also heard that we are a union of values and you have heard from a number of colleagues that in the area of justice and home affairs we had a bad experience in december where we had delays with the reception directive and other measures. we now have eurodac and other asylum elements which we hope will see progress in 2013. you heard from my own group leader that we want to see progress on schengen, on seasonal workers and on the intra-corporate transfer directive. we look to the irish presidency in the hope that we will now see some progress, thanks to the special knowledge that you have and the history that you have, in all of these areas where there are no votes, but there are values on migration and on asylum where we have repeatedly seen presidencies delaying because migration and asylum, and burden-sharing, are not seen as a serious topic. there are also exciting possibilities – in data protection, in personal freedoms, but also in the internal market – to see some progress on your priorities. so in justice and home affairs and the community of values, as well as on the economy, we would like to see progress in those six months, and we will work with you to make that progress so that we have a complete presidency for our union of values as well as on the economy.
madam president, i would like to address my speech to the irish presidency. taoiseach, do you agree with your deputy prime minister, mr eamon gilmore, when he said that there could not be different forms of membership in the eu? he also added that there cannot be flexibility on the core conditions. you cannot have a european union if you end up with 27 different forms of membership, he added. if you agree with your deputy prime minister, what advice will you give to our prime minister, david cameron, who will be making his big europe speech on friday? it is widely reported that he will be aiming to repatriate powers to the uk. do you think that david cameron’s plan to repatriate powers is possible or impossible? mr kenny, when you take to the floor shortly, will you please answer my questions?
madam president, we have heard a lot about the priorities of the irish presidency, including improving economic growth and creating jobs. of course neither is very likely at all with the euro being grossly overvalued for many of the southern european countries and the eu’s disastrous embrace of globalisation, neo-liberal economics and austerity measures. of course these and other priorities were not initiated by ireland any more than cyprus’s priorities were devised by that country. the irish foreign minister let the cat out of the bag on 12 january: he said, “today’s meeting helped to build on 18 months of presidency preparations in close contact with the commission”. it is all an elaborate delusion in which the rotating presidency provides a sort of demographic or democratic legitimacy to the programme of the unelected commission. the president of the council presides over a meeting of member state representantives with an agenda provided for it from outside.
madam president, i understand your problem but i have to tell you that i was in this chamber this morning at 9.00. i handed my name into the podium up there at 9.01. i have sat through this debate the whole time. there are people who have just been called in this debate; they have just come in and waved a paper at the end. get your procedures right if you want to do it. i shall take my opportunity to speak to the taoiseach at 15.00 and i would like to welcome him to the chamber.
mr president, in accordance with rule 177(4) of our rules of procedure, i would like to propose that we adjourn this calendar vote for a period of three months. my reason is that we do not need to take a decision on this now. we only received the court judgment on 13 december 2012. most members have not yet had a chance to study that judgment properly. why is this calendar being pushed through now in such a rush? there has been no opportunity to examine the judgment properly. there has been no opportunity to get any legal opinions on what the judgment actually means. you, mr president, have decided in your wisdom to rule out of order any calendar amendments that propose moving either for or against the period of four days, either more or less four days. in my opinion that is not in the legal opinion from the court. i would like to see your legal justification for doing that. i have had no opportunity to see it. most members here have not seen the new calendar. no copies of it have been sent round. it is only available on the website so i ask again: why is this being pushed forward in such a hurry? finally, repeatedly, a large majority in this chamber have voted for us to spend less time here in strasbourg, saving both time, money and carbon emissions. (applause)we agree that we have to comply with the judgment, but we are asking for a reasonable delay in the proposal, allowing you, mr president, to think again about your judgment, allowing the conference of presidents to think again about its proposal and perhaps – you never know – allowing the council to put an end finally to this travelling circus.
we now continue with the vote.
mr president, these separate votes have been deemed admissible in view of their content. however, they would break the first reading agreement that was approved without dissent in the committee on 17 december. therefore, irrespective of any merits that there might be within those amendments, i recommend that they should be voted against.
there is a request to put amendments 2 to 116 to the vote collectively. are there any objections? (objections from the efd group)ok – you have asked for it! – before the vote on amendment 2:
mr president, we are very interested to see how people vote on what is a very important subject. i draw your attention to rule 161(5). a little transparency, even in this place, would not go amiss.
i would just remind you that the chair is supporting your right to table these amendments and we are now going to vote on them. – after the vote:
the president and i did have a meeting this morning with the services. there are people on this bench who understand this hybrid approach. i do not, myself, but i entirely agree with your proposition. it should be referred to the committee on constitutional affairs and that will happen.
i am afraid we are going to have to vote on this. it will not take that long but nevertheless there is a need to have it examined and it will be done. – before the vote on amendment 5:
can i confirm with you, mrs bowles, that your approach on this report is the same as the last one? correct? ok. so this group of votes does not form part of the package. – after the vote:
mr president, i very strongly endorse what the rapporteur has said. if we are to secure substantial reform of the common fisheries policy to ensure that fish stocks are allowed to recover and secure a good future for fish and for fishermen, it is essential that we get this issue of long-term management plans sorted out. the dispute with the council must be resolved.
thank you for that comment. colleagues have heard it. the commissioner is doing his facebook at the moment but no doubt they will read the report when it comes in. (laughter and applause)
mr president, the treaties state that the european parliament shall have its seat in strasbourg where 12 monthly plenary sessions shall be held. the european court of justice has ordered that an amendment on the european parliament’s calendar, tabled by my group, must be overturned as it is not in accordance with the treaties. yet its members are fully aware that parliament does not meet in strasbourg on a monthly basis as the treaties require. why can the parliament choose to postpone the august session, yet not be able to hold two sessions in the same week? the ruling does not make sense to me or my constituents. why does the european parliament meet in strasbourg at all? there is no satisfactory answer. member states and the european parliament arguing whether we need to troop to strasbourg 11 or 12 times a year appears to our citizens as if we are rearranging the deckchairs on the titanic. before we all go down with this ship, let us, once and for all, do the right thing and scrap strasbourg.
mr president, this house has now voted several times for an end to the two-seat parliament and called for us to limit the strasbourg visits in order to save valuable taxpayers’ money and make our work far more efficient. in eliminating just one trip to strasbourg in 2012 we succeeded in completing our parliamentary business without any disruption. in fact we carried out the two sessions in one week very effectively. if we are to interpret the court of justice opinion on our visits to strasbourg as requiring 12 monthly visits of the same length, then presumably this year we will be forced to visit in august. this interpretation is absurd, as are the strasbourg sessions themselves, and it is time that the council and commission now take up our mandate to allow the european parliament a single seat. preventing the democratically elected house from choosing where and when to conduct its business is not acceptable.
mr president, there are those in our constituencies who see politicians as out of touch and those politicians who try to justify the fact that we meet in two places, in brussels and strasbourg, are seen as even more out of touch. it is ridiculous, especially during these times of austerity but at any time, that we are spending eur 120 million or more a year, plus all the waste in co2, shifting between two seats. now i understand the view of those who support strasbourg. for them it is a symbol of franco-german reconciliation. for others it is a symbol of franco-german collaboration. but whatever the truth and whatever the view of that, it is quite clear that we have to move towards one seat. and if it is to be strasbourg, then let those who want further integration understand. parliament can meet in strasbourg rather than trying to force us all to meet in brussels. but let us agree on one seat. the majority of people here agree it should be brussels, but let us all work together to support one seat and stop this waste and show that we understand the concerns of our electorate.
before giving the floor to mr hannan, i should like to mention that the local newspaper yesterday began its commentary on the vote which took place today with the following words:"restaurateurs, hôteliers et taxis strasbourgeois, à vos agendas!"which means ‘restaurateurs, hoteliers and the taxis of strasbourg, get your diaries out’. that is the symbolism of strasbourg today.
mr president, every vote we have passed in the last couple of days has tended to increase spending on various euro-schemes and boondoggles. this modest proposal slightly to reduce the amount of travel between the two seats of this parliament was thrown out by two to one. let me remind colleagues of one of the lines in the us declaration of independence. the american patriots laid as a grievance against george iii the fact that he had called legislatures to meet in ‘places unusual, uncomfortable and distant’. that was seen as a cause for separation, as i suspect a lot of our constituents and people in different countries will see this extraordinary waste, this duplication of this monthly peregrination. i agree with syed kamall. i would be very happy to meet in strasbourg at every single session and cut out brussels. but what is absolutely unjustifiable, at a time of austerity, is to be pouring away hundreds of millions of euros on the trip in between. after the vote my colleague sitting next to me on this side said very loudly in french, ‘the english have arrived late and now they want to change things’. there were several responses that sprang to my mind, but i instead confined myself to saying to him politely that i do not think we will be staying long.
mr president, i just want to speak on this very important issue. it may be a little insensitive perhaps with the 50th anniversary of the elysée treaty coming up next tuesday to stand in the city where a former conservative party leader, winston churchill, called for europe to unite after the war and say that all meps must leave this city. any self-respecting parliament nevertheless should have one seat not two. no one can justify the wholesale waste of money, time and carbon emissions. neither was it desired or acquired by the people for their representation to have two seats. sadly president schulz deems procedures and processes more important. he has indicated that he intends to rule as inadmissible any amendments which change the duration of the strasbourg session from four days and uses the court of justice’s judgment as a justification for this. our position as british conservatives is very very clear. no administrative device is going to quell the fact that by conducting our business the way we do, we invite and earn the contempt of our electorate. do we not want to remove, rather than add to, the stains on our reputation as meps? democracy is government for the people by the people of the people. it is not about hiding behind a stitch-up in a long-forgotten treaty and a rogue judgment by the european court of justice.
thank you for the reproach. anybody who thinks i am impartial on this subject cannot have been round for the last five years. but i think the exchanges show the need for a debate in this house on this subject. that will take place in due course and i look forward to it.
in writing. − this boils down to a single seat debate and, like the overwhelming majority of meps, i believe that parliament should have its seat in a single location. this is the best setup both in economic terms and in terms of limiting the detrimental effects on the environment brought about by commuting between the two seats. it is for the same reasons that i am opposed to the proposed increase in the number of part-sessions in strasbourg this year. we simply cannot justify the additional costs to the taxpayer associated with these additional visits to strasbourg. it is for these reasons that i voted against the proposed changes to the european parliament’s calendar for 2013
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposed changes to mini-plenary sessions. however, i am opposed to the parliament moving between brussels and strasbourg, which is hugely expensive and has detrimental effects on the environment. i am an enthusiastic supporter of the ‘single seat campaign’, as are many of my constituents in wales. i supported the proposal to postpone this vote, which was defeated in the chamber.
in writing. − i voted against the new draft calendar because i felt parliament should have been given more time to consider its options following the court ruling. i also felt the calendar should have been open for amendment.
in writing. − i voted against the proposed changes to the european parliament’s calendar for 2013, which will increase the number of part-sessions in strasbourg this year. i have consistently supported calls to scrap the monthly commute to strasbourg, and an overwhelming majority of meps agree that the european parliament should have its seat in a single location. maintaining brussels as the sole location of the european parliament would be a smart move in economic and environmental terms, saving around eur 180 million and 19 000 tonnes of co2 each year, which is why i voted against a further increase in this unnecessary expenditure.
in writing. − i am entirely against the eu controlling our chemical industry and it is for this reason that i voted against the proposed recast.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, because safety depends on standardised and recognisable labelling and packaging as well as the classification of dangerous substances. i know from experience with landfill sites in wales that dangerous preparations can be mistakenly disposed of and that clear rules can prevent this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal. the recast of the dangerous preparations directive (1999/45/ec) is proposed in order to codify amending acts and to align provisions regarding the commission’s power to adopt delegated and implementing acts to the lisbon treaty. the directive represents a bridging piece of legislation ensuring legal continuity within the legal sectoral framework, currently under fundamental reform due to the adoption of reach (regulation (ec) no 1907/2006). the dangerous preparations directive (dpd) regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions of two or more substances (chemical elements and their compounds). it remains applicable until 1 june 2015 within the transitional provisions of the clp (regulation (ec) no 1272/2008) as the eu’s new system on the classification and labelling of hazardous substances and mixtures, including the un’s globally harmonised system, in force since 20 january 2009. in addition, mixtures already placed on the market may continue to be supplied under the dpd rules until 1 june 2017. for substances, the clp rules have applied since 1 december 2010. the recast thus refers to an act that is about to be phased out.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i oppose the increased power it gives the commission to: first, make decisions on such things as fishing gear; second, grant derogation from the rules; and, third, formulate criteria for certain types of fishing, on certain stock, around certain countries in the mediterranean.
in writing. − the adoption of the lisbon treaty gave the european parliament more power over eu legislation. this has meant the revision of several current laws, including this one. while the changes voted on are restricted to procedural ones, the issue of sustainable fishing is of great concern to many of my constituents in wales, particularly during discussions on the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. i welcome the deletion from the report of the following paragraph: ‘further technical and scientific information is needed to duly take into account the specificities of the mediterranean fisheries to enable the commission to establish possible technical specifications limiting the maximum dimension of trawl nets and the maximum number of nets in multi-rig trawl nets’.
in writing. − i am opposed to the eu telling us which species to conserve and not conserve. biodiversity in the uk is our national affair and decisions made in the field shall be made by the british government alone.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to give consent to the protocol. it notes the conclusion of the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on liability and redress to the cartagena protocol on biosafety. this is an important element in protecting biological diversity from risks posed by biotechnology. with its commitment to sustainable development, wales needs the protection that international treaties such as this one offer.
in writing. − i supported this resolution. the cartagena protocol on biosafety to the convention on biological diversity is an international treaty governing the movements of living modified organisms (lmos) resulting from modern biotechnology from one country to another. the protocol establishes an advance informed agreement (aia) procedure for ensuring that countries are provided with the information necessary to make informed decisions before agreeing to the import of such organisms into their territory. the protocol contains reference to a precautionary approach and reaffirms the precaution language in principle 15 of the rio declaration on environment and development. the protocol also establishes a biosafety clearing-house to facilitate the exchange of information on living modified organisms and to assist countries in the implementation of the protocol.
mr president, this report calls for budgetary consolidation. consolidation based on cutting unproductive expenditure rather than on increasing revenue. i believe the eu should follow its own advice and lead by its own example, not only with the total of the european budget but, for example, with the circus that is strasbourg. it is totally unproductive and the court ruling recently is ignoring the will of this house and of eu citizens across the whole of the eu. we really need to concentrate on cutbacks, on saving costs. this place costs over eur 200 million to keep coming here. it costs 20 000 co2 tonnes and it is basically leading us to look like a joke and very indecisive at a point in time when we need to be showing real solidarity with the people suffering across the whole of the eu through this crisis. the eu needs to learn its lesson. it needs to consolidate. it needs to stop wasting eu citizens’ money.
mr president, the eurozone crisis gives me no pleasure and unemployment and recession are evils that nobody deserves, but they are a consequence of the profligacy and irresponsibility of some governments which avoided the choices that many other governments had to make in the 1980s and 1990s. by failing to reform rigid labour markets and sustaining corporatist economic structures, they did not bring about the prosperity which is required in a globalised economy. therefore, some countries have had to face reality much more harshly than otherwise would have been necessary. nevertheless, i support wholeheartedly the supply-side reforms that are now happening in most eurozone countries. this report highlights those desirable structural reforms. which conservative could oppose a statement that fiscal consolidations based on cutting unproductive expenditure, rather than on increasing revenue, is the correct one and will aid growth and job creation? however, it is never going to be possible for the eu budget to reduce macroeconomic and social imbalances throughout the eurozone. for instance, the european job youth guarantee for unemployed people can be no substitute for the real issue at stake that the eurozone economies must now take a dose of thatcherite medicine as the only remedy for economic sustainability.
mr president, as my colleague charles tannock recently said, i do not think it gives anyone any great pleasure to see the suffering going on in a number of eurozone countries. but be that as it may, it is quite clear that the governments of these countries, and the eu as well, should be looking to see how we can sort out public finances. it is quite clear the first lesson to learn, as mrs thatcher used to say, is that you cannot spend more money than you have got coming in. so stop spending more money than you collect in taxes. stop wasting taxpayers’ money. but how can we send that message out when we ourselves here have just voted to go back to 12 sittings a year in strasbourg? what message does that send to the citizens, at the same time as asking them to cut back on spending? but the most important lesson we should learn is that what people call ‘public investment’ is quite often spending even more taxpayers’ money. what we should be doing as politicians and governments is getting out of the way and letting the entrepreneurs invest in growth and jobs, for they are the people who can produce the goods that we seek.
mr president, the money has run out. our treasuries are empty, our credit is exhausted and you do not have to look far to see the reason why. for 40 years this chamber and the other eu institutions have been passing more and more intrusive laws depreciating the private sector. we have the most generous workers’ rights anywhere in the world. we have plenty of rights but fewer and fewer workers. work is becoming a lifestyle choice. people stay in full-time education for longer and longer. they retire earlier and earlier as a percentage of their total lifespan and, in the few years in between, they are likely to be working for the government. so who is generating the revenue that is to pay for all the things that we want to spend? now, forced by the financial crisis, many of the member governments are looking to retrench and yet we have the extraordinary situation where every penny they save at home, and more, is being swallowed up by these constant increases in the brussels budget. the private sector in europe is shrinking and our demographic situation is dire. the only way to restore prosperity is to look beyond europe to the parts of the world that are still growing. if we cannot do that within the common external tariff, we should seek the wider horizons which our fathers took for granted.
in writing. − this report purports to tell national governments how to run their economies and fiscal policies and encourages the commission to monitor and criticise the implementation of those policies. i, therefore, voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. if monetary union is to work, there need to be proper financial instruments in place to oversee it and regulate it. a report that i commissioned in 2000 recommended certain safeguards should wales choose to join the euro, and proper regulation is clearly one of those. even though we never joined the euro, the crisis has an impact on our economy, and it is in everyone’s interest that the options for public debt instruments are examined as soon as possible and that a roadmap is adopted.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which underlines the role of local and regional public authorities in supporting public and private investments and stresses the importance of growth-oriented investments for a swift economic recovery.
mr president, this is the third piece of eu legislation on credit rating agencies since the financial crisis of 2008. the world’s regulation of these often global research institutions has moved on. i hope that we will now give the existing legislation on rating agencies time to settle down on a global basis. clarifying the liability of ratings agencies is sensible, and attempts to broaden the market participants, if done properly, should aid competition and lead to improvement in the quality of analysis. however, today’s report introduces blunt tools to try to change behaviour in very sophisticated financial markets. it is a sad reflection of our rush in the eu to legislate on financial services post-crisis, particularly using regulations and not directives, that there have been three dossiers in a single parliamentary term attempting to establish a regulatory framework for a small, however systemically important, category of financial service provider.
mr president, credit rating agencies have been widely blamed for their role in the financial crisis of 2008. they triple-a rated the us mortgage-backed securities, which ultimately caused the collapse of institutions such as bear stearns, lehman brothers and aig. this legislation now opens up competition in a notoriously uncompetitive market, where 90% of ratings are made by three companies: moody’s, standard and poor’s and fitch’s. there were accusations in the past, which seem to have been resolved now, of conflicts of interest. however, it is debatable whether the report goes about these aims in the right way. ruling on how often a rating agency may make judgments on sovereign debt is somewhat odd. do we really believe that a proscriptive and rushed approach by restricting these people to a view for only three times a year is going to decrease volatility? in actual fact this may in reality increase the volatility, for example by necessitating more severe downgrades than would previously have been necessary. it is also harmful as it limits the freedom of the credit rating agencies to act on their own best judgment as to when ratings should be modified. overall it was a poorish report so i abstained.
mr president, when it comes to credit-rating agencies, i think some of the criticism is actually justified when you look at the role that the cras played in analysing credit default swaps and collateralised debt obligations. they clearly got it wrong and allowed some of the big players in the market to gain there formerly. but they got it absolutely right when it came to government debt and the rating of government debt, and in fact quite often the credit rating agencies were simply following what the markets were saying anyway about that particular government’s debt. all we are doing in this case is really shooting the messenger rather than tackling the fundamental problems of debt. but i think the most offensive thing i find about this proposal, as my colleague kay swinburne said, is that it is the third proposal in this area. five years after the financial crisis we have not tackled the fundamental problems. it is time we made sure that explicitly there are no more taxpayer bail-outs of failing banks and that banks have an orderly wind-down procedure to make sure taxpayers do not pay for it; that directors are liable or more responsible for failing banks and pay the price, and finally that accounting standards are sorted out to stop banks and others booking profits up front but not booking losses until they are actually made. we need to move back to prudence in accounting so that losses are booked up front and profits are not booked until they are actually made. sort out the crisis.
mr president, it is hard to improve on what my colleague martin callanan said on this issue, that seeking to address the debt crisis by regulating the credit rating agencies is like seeking to improve the weather by regulating the weather forecasters. you do not improve the underlying problem by tackling the way it is reported. but what particularly strikes me today is the timing of this report, because, if i heard him correctly, the president of the commission yesterday assured us that the debt crisis was over, the existential threat, as he put it, to the euro has been lifted and we could all look forward to a period of prolonged growth. the president of the council said the same thing. one after another the leaders of the various groups chorused their agreement. so what are we worried about? why are we regulating the credit rating agencies if the crisis is past? could it be that we are less sure privately than we are letting on in public? could it be that we still suspect that the underlying debt crisis is in place and untackled? yes, i think the existential crisis of the euro has past. that is europe’s tragedy: that the euro, far from breaking apart, will remain in place, condemning its people to poverty, immiseration and emigration.
in writing. − the proposals outlined in this report interfere in business methods, activities and ownership to the point that they stifle and restrict their execution. they interfere in the automatic mechanisms driven by credit ratings; significantly add to the costs and risks of doing business – which is likely to stifle the cra market; and restrict freedom of speech with regard to rating banks’ credit risks and commenting on economic policies of sovereign states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as credit rating agencies play a central role in the world finance market and yet there are many concerns about various conflicts of interest. the new rules proposed are a step forward. in future these bodies will only be able to issue sovereign debt ratings at specific times and will be liable for damages in the event of ill-founded ratings. unfavourable credit ratings have led to soaring public debt in many countries, which has caused financial hardship for a great number of people. the new rules will go some way to improving transparency and will make credit ratings easier to understand and provide greater stability, which is important for businesses and traders in wales.
in writing. − as a result of today’s vote rules on sovereign debt ratings assigned by credit rating agencies will be tightened up to help prevent any repeat in the future of some of the disastrous consequences ratings have had for certain states. this is one of the key measures of the compromise endorsed by an overwhelming majority of the european parliament. the reform, on which an agreement had already been struck with the council, also entails measures to address conflicts of interest, to boost competition in the sector and reduce over-reliance on ratings. i am pleased we managed to get this very important text approved after fighting an uphill battle. the negotiations with the council that led to the compromise reached on 27 november 2012 were particularly difficult. some of us would have liked something with more teeth, with more impact. i regret the council’s conservatism.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal as it will unnecessarily restrict choice in the investment policies and investment funds markets. it will also add significant cost to the operations for investment fund managers as each manager will have to conduct their own assessment of creditworthiness, rather than relying upon the expert opinion of cras.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is related to the issue of credit rating agencies, which have an affect on the world finance market. new rules are needed to improve transparency and provide greater stability, which is important for businesses and traders in wales.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. credit ratings are just opinions on the relative future credit risk of entities, credit commitments, or debt or debt-like securities and are a useful gauge of future creditworthiness. they do not measure any other risk, and as such should not be used as a proxy for assessing other characteristics of a security in which ucits and aifs invest, such as liquidity risk, price volatility or marketability.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it gives the commission more power to make decisions on such things as types of fishing gear, bringing the fishing effort in line with the maximum sustainable yield principle and changing the timelines for the current stock management in the baltic sea.
in writing. − when the lisbon treaty was adopted, the european parliament gained more power over eu legislation, making the process much more democratic. this has meant that several current laws have had to be revised. one example is the law on cod stocks. while the changes voted on today should have been restricted to procedural ones only, the fisheries committee took the opportunity to ease the restrictions on cod fishing at the same time. the rules mean that small fishermen will be able to catch baltic cod in coastal areas during the summer months. i voted in favour as the latest statistics show that baltic sea cod stocks are recovering. while this change does not directly affect the welsh fishing fleet, i hope it is a reflection of a general trend of easing requirements when we can be sure that sustainability is ensured.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. in order to achieve in an efficient way the targets set out in regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 and be able to react swiftly to changes in stock conditions or in fishery, the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty should be delegated to the commission with regard to setting periods when fishing with certain types of gear is allowed in respect of certain geographical areas. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations with the baltic sea regional advisory council and relevant stakeholders during its preparatory work, including at expert level.
in writing. − abstain. this is a transnational continuation of the present rules, with some amendments, including restrictions on net sizes and prohibitions on certain species of fish in certain areas. we oppose the commission exerting control over our fishing and so abstain from voting.
in writing. − this report deals with technical measures concerning fishing activities in eu waters, such as mesh sizes and the size of the catch. i supported the rapporteur in asking for the vote to be postponed for the second time to send a strong signal to the council over member states blocking progress on multiannual fisheries management plans. these issues are of great concern to my constituents in wales and it is vital that their voices are heard via the parliament in framing legislation.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the technical conservation measures for fishery resources are among the key elements of a regionalised approach to fisheries management and come on top of the annual/ biannual decisions on catch possibilities. technical measures lay down the rules on fishing zones and fishing gear used as opposed to quantities (fishing effort) and/or catches (tacs and quotas) authorised. technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that how and where fishing activity is carried out it is done so in a sustainable manner. the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and have thus a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
in writing. − i abstained from voting on the changes proposed as they do little more than tinker with the rules regarding the election of european parliament presidents, vice-presidents and quaestors. the only matter of significance is the proposal to use the stv system for the vote; otherwise this is a bunfight about who gets to take buggins’ turn.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the changes proposed as they will improve the way that vice-presidents are elected in the european parliament. the single transferable vote is the fairest system of proportional representation and best reflects the choice of the members, which is why it is the preferred electoral option of my party, plaid cymru, the party of wales.
in writing. − i welcome this decision which should help clarify the order of precedence of vice-presidents.
mr president, i am pleased that long-term youth unemployment has fallen in my constituency of london. there were 10% fewer long-term unemployed people in london in 2012 than there were two years ago. the conservative party in the uk is committed to creating jobs in the capital and beyond. hand in hand with ambitious reform of the uk benefits systems, the conservative-led government is ensuring that work always pays more than welfare. i believe the commission’s recommendations for a youth guarantee scheme is little more than another handout. it would not improve the situation of young people and, by forcing member states to guarantee jobs, would increase tensions within the labour market. we need to help young people into work and to give them the support they need. one way of doing this is to have more companies offer work placements. the youth guarantee scheme would put more burdens on companies and ultimately fail the young people it intends to help.
mr president, the youth of many member states, including my young constituents in wales, are going to have to carry a very heavy burden for many years to come. the lack of youth employment opportunities, together with the massive levels of debt which member states are carrying, means that we need to look for effective solutions to these structural issues. many of these measures being proposed today seek to micro-manage initiatives which need to be carried out at regional and member-state levels. moreover, these proposals are in danger of duplicating work already being done by member states, including comprehensive plans being implemented by my own uk government through their youth contract and apprenticeship schemes. all 27 member states face different challenges in their economies, none more so than in opportunities for youth employment. therefore they will need tailored solutions to be successful, not an overarching blueprint imposed at eu level. our youth deserve support, but the right support: designed and delivered as locally as possible for the greatest effect.
in writing. − though the youth guarantee as presented is woefully inadequate, citing different ‘levels of readiness’ as a barrier to a more uniform approach, an imperfect approach is better than no approach at all, as a guarantee gives a platform upon which more concrete measures can be built. the current scenario is already having a disastrous impact on the lives of thousands of young people right across europe; the acknowledgement of the potential future costs of long-term unemployment on young people is very important, as is a move away from simply talking about labour mobility, or emigration to give it another name, as a means of removing the problem from sight. despite the guarantee’s shortcomings, it is a step in the right direction and so i am voting in favour.
in writing. − while i fully agree with the objective of tackling youth unemployment, some of measures outlined in this report are of concern. the uk government has put in place a comprehensive series of initiatives designed to help young people enter the labour market and i believe that it should be allowed to maintain control over those initiatives and any others it chooses to introduce.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because it is essential that all help possible is given to young people seeking employment. youth employment is at unacceptable levels throughout europe. this is a specific measure for people up to 25 years of age, ensuring that they receive a good offer of employment, further education or an apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of becoming unemployed. plaid cymru secured an agreement from the welsh government last year to create 10 000 apprenticeships in wales. what is needed now is a commitment from the member states that they will adopt this recommendation in council in february so that the welsh government can offer more support to young people.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution in which the european parliament is urging the council to reach early agreement on a proposed recommendation on youth guarantee schemes. in a non-legislative resolution adopted on 16 january, meps confirmed their support for this initiative, which should help young unemployed people to gain access to a job, continued education or apprenticeship within four months of leaving school or losing their job. more specifically, meps are calling for member states to allocate sufficient funding to the initiative, and to adopt it during the employment and social affairs council of 28 february.
in writing. − uk conservatives fully agree with the objective of tackling youth unemployment. however, we have concerns about some of the measures contained within this resolution, including the prescription of a four-month window, which we believe seek to micromanage member states by introducing new european initiatives which will duplicate the good work already done by member states. the uk government has initiated a comprehensive series of initiatives, including expanding apprenticeships and investing in training, designed to help young people, whatever their circumstances, get the help they need to enter the labour market, and has committed almost gbp 1 billion to be spent over the next three years to provide unemployed young people with extra help as part of a new ‘youth contract’. we recognise the eu has an important role in adding value to the work underway in many member states, by promoting and facilitating the exchange of best practice, coordinating policy initiatives, and promoting mobility – which will help the economies of member states grow and create jobs. more flexibility in the timing of such a guarantee is needed, as we have said repeatedly – there is no one-size-fits-all solution. therefore uk conservative meps voted against this resolution.
in writing. − eu youth unemployment is at a record high. recent statistics show that the rate of youth unemployment for the eu as a whole was 23.7% at the end of 2012 and currently stands at 20% in the uk. i supported calls for a youth guarantee scheme, which aims to ensure that young people who have been unemployed or have left formal education for longer than 4 months are offered a job, an apprenticeship or further education. it is vital that young people are given a chance, and this scheme would provide the necessary funding to make sure that the youth of today can be successful and contribute to growth in the eu. at the moment, the cost of unemployment is estimated at around eur 153 billion across the eu, a figure which could be greatly reduced with this new instrument. i am disappointed that ukip and uk conservative meps did not support this proposal but fully hope that the member states will take it seriously and think about the change it could bring to today’s youth across europe.
in writing. − with youth unemployment rates at 25% across the eu and as high as 50% in greece and spain, it is clearly one of the biggest problems we face at the moment. helping young people into work is imperative if we are to have any chance of restoring growth to european economies and, more importantly, avoiding a lost generation of young people suffering damaging long-term unemployment. labour meps have been calling for a european youth guarantee for some time, so i was delighted to support this motion for a resolution. the resolution calls for all young people who are not in education, training or work to be offered a good-quality offer of employment, further education or an apprenticeship within four months. it also calls for eu funding to be made available to finance the youth guarantee by allocating a significant proportion of structural funds. in difficult times, i believe this is exactly the sort of scheme that we should be spending eu money on.
in writing. − as a party we are opposed to widespread use of wind and solar, which offer an unpredictable and intermittent trickle of very expensive electricity, requiring 100 % back-up. these renewables undermine economic competitiveness, damage our economy and threaten security of energy supply. it is for this reason that i voted against this report.
in writing. − after years of receiving convergence funding, wales’s economy has not improved. ahead of the next round, for which west wales and the valleys is likely to qualify once again, we need to look at how funds can be spent more effectively. plaid cymru has called for a proportion of funding to be invested in energy efficiency and renewable energy schemes, which would not only contribute to our climate change goals but would also be a boost to building a sustainable economy in wales. i was pleased, therefore, to see that the committee on regional development adopted a report on this subject. however, while the report contains some positive points, i voted against the final result as not enough support was given to renewable energy as opposed to possibly unsafe technologies such as fracking. i see tremendous potential for using cohesion funding to develop clean energy sources.
in writing. − i, along with my uk conservative colleagues, elected to abstain on this report. we agree with the rapporteur that the structural and cohesion funds can potentially play a role in developing a more integrated and interconnected energy network in europe. we also agree that europe’s regions should have flexibility to focus on the particular low-emission technologies which are best tailored to local resources and local needs. nonetheless, we believe that the subject of this report goes somewhat beyond the competence of the committee on regional development, and that its suggestions could lead to cohesion policy acting as an added subsidiary for environmentally harmful fossil fuels, and damage competition in the european energy market. furthermore, we do not believe that member states’ cohesion envelopes for the post-2013 period should be subject to pre-set quotas for low-carbon projects. for these reasons, my delegation decided to abstain.
in writing. − i welcome the general approach of linking cohesion policy to the europe 2020 objectives and its flagship initiatives in order to move towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to support the shift towards a low-carbon, energy-efficient economy in all sectors. i also believe in the importance of the structural funds and the cohesion fund for achieving these short- and long-term objectives in accordance with the spirit of solidarity between member states as enshrined in the lisbon treaty, and for combating energy poverty in the less developed regions of the eu and the most vulnerable households.
mr president, the severity of the eurozone crisis means that we must all look to options to restoring stability, including eurobonds – although, as this report states, they are not the miracle cure. member states must assume responsibility for payment of their debts. however, i am not able to support this report; i believe that it goes too far by calling for fiscal own resources as well as common eu debt. the report also states that the refusal of a federal solution has a cost. i say the cost of accepting federal solutions is even greater. there can be no question in our mind that the single currency was a step towards a federal superstate. i am glad the uk did not take this step. eurozone countries are now faced with the choice of integration or disintegration. these countries should think carefully about whether a far-reaching economic and political union is what they really want.
mr president, the eurozone crisis – which i actually wrote about as inevitable a decade ago – is an existential challenge to the european integrationalist project. it is therefore not surprising that european leaders – the ones most committed to further political union – will do whatever it takes to resolve this matter. ecb president draghi’s commitment to backstop the euro has given a temporary respite to the euro and the european sovereign bond markets but clearly more long-term fiscal union is now being planned to prevent the disruptions we have seen since 2008 in the bond markets. debt mutualisation, or joint and several liability through the so-called stability bonds, is therefore a key concept to prevent a further run on indebted eurozone member state governments. the goulard report looks at various options in this respect. however, i have some concerns about the report, particularly from the issue and point of view of moral hazard. there are insufficient safeguards to prevent over-borrowing by member state governments, and there is also the possibility of default on legacy debt which is left behind. nevertheless, i and other conservatives regard this as a matter for the 17 eurozone states. we have serious reservations about the whole concept, so we voted against.
in writing. − stability bonds will not solve the structural problems in the euro area but will merely delay the rate at which the system collapses, all the time increasing the costs involved. it is for this reason that i voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the european parliament introduced the idea of ‘eurobonds’ in the texts concerning the governance of the eurozone (‘6 pack’) for multiple reasons: - to ensure sustainable budgetary discipline, founded on liquid markets, which reflect the respective situations of the member states; - to provide liquid and safe assets for investors, drawing on the benefits of the euro’s potential on the world markets; - to protect the ecb by allowing it to focus on monetary policy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is hard to believe that the syrian conflict has now been going on for two years with so many lives lost and so little achieved in terms of bringing peace to a once stable middle eastern country. only yesterday 87 people were killed in a bombing attack on aleppo’s university campus. there is a sort of paradigm emerging, and a familiar one, with each side now blaming the other. but this does reinforce one crucial point about this war since we last spoke in the house, namely that both sides, sadly, have now been accused of atrocities. we must be extremely cautious in our unqualified endorsements of all the opposition forces, in particular the extremist jihadi ones. one thing is certain. there is a complete necessity now for the utterly discredited and morally bankrupt president assad to leave office as soon as possible. he has dropped bombs, which is a war crime, on his own civilians and been directly or indirectly responsible for the deaths of an estimated 60 000 people. we now hear rumours that the iranian proxy hezbollah is mobilising fighters to defend the government, while assad is planning a retreat to an alawite enclave for a final stand. any resolution that allowed him to remain in office would, however, be totally unacceptable to the west. we must, therefore, maintain all the pressure we can to end this horrendous conflict. it would certainly be helpful in this regard if china and russia, whose continuing appeasement of the regime in damascus carries on – as well as their continuing blocking of un resolutions which is actually blighting their own international standing and is an abuse of their security council privilege – were to actually come round and agree with the eu and the us on this matter. un envoy, lakdar brahimi, recently said that russia appears as determined as the us to end this conflict, but we need to see moscow offering action, not simply words. for the time being, all that we can hope for is the success of the peace plan and a transitional government. we owe it to the syrian people and in particular the minorities, such as the christians, who are caught up between the warring factions, to help them to realise their desire for their lives to be free of political tyranny and military onslaught.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i had prepared a speech this afternoon, but this morning i received a letter from the council of representatives in iraq, signed by two committee chairmen and five members of the iraqi parliament. let me read that letter: ‘it was with great dismay and shock that we learned that the european parliament is about to adopt a resolution on iraq in the coming week in strasbourg which seems completely out of touch with the real situation and everyday challenges on the ground. ‘ according to draft texts that we have seen on the european parliament website, the resolution applauds the government on many points, including providing security and safety to the iraqis. its main focus seems to be on boosting trade and endorsing the maliki government, which to us is completely incomprehensible. ‘ in a time when our country faces one of it major political crises, with our country’s vice-president sentenced to death in absentia and the home and office of a minister raided by government forces and his computer and personal belongings confiscated without any justification, while the number of executions has reached record high levels and the masses are outraged in daily protests over arbitrary incarceration and mistreatment of women in iraqi prisons, with several provincial governments calling on maliki to go, we would have expected the house of democracy of the european people to be more attentive to the human rights and democracy which are wearing thinner every day.‘ there is no mention of any of these major concerns in this resolution and it gives the impression that it is designed to boost the oppressor instead of defending the victims and those who are oppressed. even if the eu governments might lean towards putting business and trade over human rights, the european parliament, which represents the people, should blow the whistle and raise the flag of human rights and the universal human values that are equal to all of us, no matter our differences in culture, race or religion. ‘we therefore strongly urge you not to adopt this resolution, which would only be used as a tool of further suppression of our beleaguered people.’
mr president, this is a depressing but predictable report: the persecution of hundreds of thousands of christians, one and a half million refugees, broken infrastructure, murderous sectarian militias, daily bombings and shootings, child prostitution, honour killings, female genital mutilation and brutal islamist repression of women. it is good to see the eu, albeit indirectly, admit that western meddling in iraq has led to disaster. it would be even better if the cheerleaders for the illegal war of 2003 that created this shambles were to apologise and learn from their terrible error. it is utterly hypocritical for members of the globalist elite to shed crocodile tears over the collapse of iraq while at the same time striving to replicate it in syria. just as in iraq, so the fall of assad would lead not to syria becoming a replica switzerland, but to its collapse into bloody anarchy and the triumph of wahhabi fundamentalism. this meddling has already helped kill hundreds of thousands in iraq. it is time for a little humility and to leave syria to the syrians.
blue-card question. – mr president, thank you very much for allowing me to respond to that astonishing outburst from ms gomes. ms gomes did not come with the delegation when they went to iraq last year. i do not see her name on the list to come in three weeks’ time – you are coming? i am glad to hear it. after such a glowing speech in favour of iraq, are you aware that yesterday one of the iraqi members of parliament for al-iraqiya was assassinated in fallujah? are you aware that one of the great sheikhs of the al-jabiri clans was assassinated in nineveh province, also yesterday? are you aware that hundreds of thousands of people are demonstrating on the streets in unprecedented demonstrations? can you answer?
mr president, it is clear that iraq has made some progress since the fall of saddam hussein, but key concerns remain about the stability of the country and the state of human rights within it. iraq’s government is fragile and its people continue to face the daily anxiety of terrorism and intercommunal violence. only today, ten people were reportedly killed in an attack on political offices in kirkuk. the ecr, my group, accepts the need for a pca; we must engage economically and politically with the iraqis and help them to realise their aspirations as best we can. nevertheless, the level of government corruption is a major concern, as is the al-maliki shia-dominated support for both iran and syria. it has dented its credibility enormously by permitting the flow of iranian arms to president assad. we cannot ignore the human rights outlook: well over a hundred inmates were executed last year, with numerous reports of police torture and forced confessions, while women and minorities such as the christians face acute lack of state protection, and homophobic violence has reportedly been increasing. there are also grave fears over the freedom of expression and the safety of journalists. on a separate note, we are seriously concerned over the threat to send pmoi inmates, now moved to camp liberty from camp ashraf, back to iran, with a direct possibility of torture and execution. i do, however, support the prosperity and stability of the kurdish autonomous democratic region, which is now exporting oil directly to turkey. we must hope that this stability can be extended to the whole country eventually.
mr president, a few months ago i met with a group of my london constituents who were refugees from camp ashraf. i met them alongside their local mp, mike freer, and my colleague, struan stevenson, who is, quite rightly, a hero to those dissidents who have endured the horrors of the camp. the stories i heard from the former residents were extremely shocking. one woman related how her brother had been killed in the camp by iraqi forces. so far the international community has failed the refugees and that includes the european union. baroness ashton’s call for an investigation into the ashraf massacre fell on deaf ears. no investigation ever occurred. instead we are here discussing a trade agreement. we cannot turn our backs on the refugees of camp ashraf and the new camp, which is almost mockingly named camp liberty. the challenge of rebuilding iraq is a great one, but we must never lose sight of the fragile human rights situation in the country.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have been asking for a resolution on the terrible factory fires not only in dhaka but in karachi to go on to the agenda since november, so i am very pleased that we are now discussing this and have got this resolution coming forward. hundreds of people could have been saved if only basic fire safety standards had been in place. i certainly welcome the recent efforts in bangladesh to improve basic standards in factories, and just yesterday a tripartite fire safety statement of commitment was signed between the government, the employers and the workers. i now urge the pakistani government to take similar action. we should not allow such disasters, where doors are locked and fire exits do not exist, to ever happen again. basic safety and health standards must be respected and more needs to be done in this respect. more also needs to be done to fight the endemic corruption that we see in the inspection system and not just in the inspection system, but also in the claims made by the brands, the multinationals, in terms of their corporate responsibility statements. we see very often that these are just hot air and are not met in the actuality. however, i would also like to be clear here. i am firmly opposed to simply depicting multinationals – or any companies that trade with bangladesh and buy in these garments – as evil entities. there have been attempts, i think, in some quarters of the chamber to simply skew the emphasis of this debate entirely on to the multinationals. the real culprits here have got to be the factory owners, the major culprits. clearly the multinationals do have some responsibility too. on behalf of the liberal democrats i would like to point out that it is important to improve health and safety and i support the commission and the bangladeshi government in the improvements it is trying to make.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i also speak in my capacity as chair of the delegation of the european parliament which covers bangladesh, among other countries. along with others from my group, we would like to express our condolences to the families of those who have died in fires and other accidents in various textile factories and elsewhere. it is an issue, as we have said, which spreads beyond bangladesh, even though that is our primary focus today. we are well aware that squeezed profit margins do not only lead to pressure on wages but can also lead to shortcuts in safety, and we are concerned that many of the major companies who had contracts with the tazreen factory did not want to acknowledge that at the time of the tragedy, even though the building had recently passed an evaluation by one of those major contractors. we also welcome the response from the governments in pakistan and bangladesh in terms of compensation and commitment to the victims and their families, and we welcome the contribution that has been made by some overseas companies as well; we only wish there were more of them. my colleague has just referred to the outcome of the tripartite meeting yesterday: the ilo, the government, the employers and workers should be seen as positive in terms of commitment to act, to abide by the existing laws, regulations and procedures, and to see that those are properly implemented and that there are consequences if that does not happen. that is a clear responsibility: government. it is also important, in our view, that there are active trade unions and labour rights’ activists such as aminul islam, who was recently murdered. it is essential to this process, as our history has shown, to have active trade unions on the ground working with health and safety committees and able to blow the whistle on employers who do not live up to their obligations. but those who have contracts there also have a crucial role in improving standards, and we regret that certain companies – walmart is one that has been mentioned in the press – have been less than forthcoming and active in that role. as consumers we should be confident that the clothes we wear have not put someone’s life at risk wherever they work, and i welcome what has been done by our delegation in bangladesh and in other countries to improve labour standards and make sure that everybody is safe at work.
mr president, we must bear in mind above all that bangladesh is a relatively stable secular democracy which expends genuine effort to fulfil its human rights obligations, and it depends very much on eu textile trade to create jobs in this country. what happened in the textile factory fire was a grave and genuine human tragedy, but i have received assurances of a thorough investigation by the bangladeshi authorities and support for their families. the government would dearly wish to do more to fund factory inspection and social welfare generally, but their resources are extremely constrained. it scarcely needs to be pointed out that bangladesh is blighted by grinding poverty and frequently struck by natural disasters. we here in the european union must offer every assistance possible to the bangladeshi authorities in their inspection programmes through increased concessions through gsp and aid, and i would certainly welcome csr voluntary contributions from western companies to compensate the bereaved families. but i certainly reject the calls to make these compulsory. above all, i send my deepest condolences to the families of the bereaved. as a friend of bangladesh, i can tell you that we can trust the government’s assurances to do everything in its power to avoid further such disasters in the future.
mr president, as parliament’s rapporteur on corporate social responsibility (csr), i share the grief of the families of those who died from the burns and the suffocation, trapped behind grilles on windows or blocked fire escapes. there were 111 victims, now making 700 in bangladesh alone during the last decade. i am sympathetic with a country which relies on clothing for 80% of its exports and, as its ambassador herself said to me, relies on the shared responsibility of the companies themselves. so in this debate we should condemn companies, including walmart, gap and sweden’s h&m, who have so far refused to sign bangladesh’s fire and building safety agreement to upgrade factories. we should ask why c&a from the netherlands, kik from germany and britain’s edinburgh woollen mill source from tazreen but have refused to meet the workers’ own trade unions or respond to their demands, despite being urged to do so. in my report i will acknowledge the progress made with the brands by multi-stakeholder initiatives like the clean clothes campaign and the ethical trading initiative. i will back and seek to reinforce the commission’s express desire to better enforce the oecd guidelines on multinational enterprise and the un guiding principles on business and human rights. i believe these can help prevent future tazreens. mr barnier, when you bring forward – as i encouraged you to do earlier – your long-awaited proposal on company transparency in the supply chain and when, mep colleagues, you debate and vote my proposals, do not let anyone say that corporate responsibility is optional. listen to what bangladesh says to us. accept shared responsibility and, in doing so, we can end the death toll.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, despite my initial misgivings, this resolution put before parliament is broadly in line with the views of the ecr and therefore we can support it. certainly its aspirations that the middle east should be an area free from weapons of mass destructions are shared by all of us. in a highly charged region, heavily susceptible to conflict, the dangers of nuclear proliferation are self-evident. nevertheless, the demands of pragmatism and real-life diplomacy preclude an overtly prescriptive approach, hence probably the delay for such a un conference to be convened. there can be no doubt that the most serious threat comes from iran. the iea continues to voice its suspicions and concerns while all the evidence suggests that they are redoubling their efforts to build a nuclear weapon in flagrant contravention of the npt treaty which they are signatories to. to this end eu sanctions are necessary and show signs of being effective. the real danger that an iranian nuclear weapon would prompt a regional arms race, with saudi arabia also availing itself of the technology and with syria further in line in this unhappy nexus – the risks attached to such an eventuality hardly need to be voiced here in this house, having talked about syria today. nevertheless a wmd free zone in this region cannot be imposed unilaterally or uniformly. it must be an organic process that develops in accordance with regional peace and security concerns more broadly. we look forward to working with partners to achieve our common objectives and hope that an npt conference convened this year by the un might wield some concrete solutions to this problem.
mr president, i associate myself with the comments of ms sargentini and mr murphy. an interim agreement signed by only four out of the eleven countries hardly sustains or encourages regional integration, which is one of the approaches of an epa. let me remind parliament, and in particular the commission, that in parliament’s resolution of 5 february 2009 on the development impact of epas, the parliament stated that it warns against the risk of undermining regional integration when concluding epas with individual acp countries or with a group of countries within one region. it also called upon the commission to recalibrate its approach, taking into account this risk and ensuring that the conclusion of epas does not endanger regional integration. if the model that is presented here – and it has been referred to – is the sadc epa, that is having an agreement with some parts of the region and not others, encouraging some to join, well i have to say, as chair of the delegation for relations with south africa, that it does not work. many, many years on, a full epa has still not been agreed. of the four countries which have signed, two countries are under sanctions and only one is an ldc. most of the ldcs in the grouping have refused to sign as they believe their interest is not as important as in cotonou provisions. there is no chapter on sustainable development, social standards or human rights. it has been suggested that we should be flexible until later on human rights. we should never be flexible on the important issue of human rights. finally, the accompanying resolution does not address the omissions that we have referred to. it deals specifically with zimbabwe. may i associate with mr murphy in saying that we need to look at the interests of the entire region and not pit some countries against the rest.
in writing. – i welcome the entry into force of this interim agreement. our trading relationship with african nations must be development focused and work in the interests of our partners. there is a long way to go in negotiating the more sensitive issues of a full epa but while we do that madagascar, mauritius, zimbabwe and the seychelles will now benefit from stable and long-term market access to the eu.
author. − madam president, as chair of the committee on transport and tourism, i am introducing this oral question today covering the issue of the ‘one bag’ carry-on rule imposed by certain airlines. my committee feels that action needs to be taken to address the inconsistency and the lack of transparency which often faces the public when travelling by air. it has been standard practice for a number of years that passengers are allowed to take airport purchases on board an aircraft free of charge as part of their carry-on allowance. and it was the introduction of charges for these purchases, as well as charges for extra baggage like laptops that sparked off this oral question. in some airports with some airlines a bottle of whisky can be charged while not in another. it is pot luck if passengers are charged or not. there is the inconsistency, there is the lack of transparency and it is this inconsistency that the committee is concerned about. there is a belief that some eu airlines are ignoring iko guidelines in the pursuit of income which is having a detrimental effect on both the passengers and on the airport retail sector. i fully appreciate that cabin bag rules must reflect the aircraft type and i also appreciate the commercial element here for both airlines and airports. my concern is that over recent years certain airlines look to charge for everything and others do not and it is in this area that i would ask the commission to act to give the public full transparency and to help alleviate the cancer that is add-on charges which bedevil european aviation and often leave passengers angry, confused and with the feeling of having been robbed.
madam president, the question from the chair of the committee on transport and tourism is timely and i suspect there is frustration behind it. there were no fewer than three separate reports which included reference to passengers’ hand luggage adopted in 2012. i was the author of the first report which concerned the functioning and application of established rights of people travelling by air and that report was adopted by a large majority. concerning hand luggage, we called on the commission to propose measures which make it possible to harmonise commercial practice so as to protect passengers against excessive restrictions and to allow them to carry on board a reasonable amount of hand luggage. we have heard the horror stories of the travelling public; the parliament has expressed its wishes. if i heard the commissioner right, he is going to leave it up to the market and possibly the courts. i simply do not think that is good enough and i really want the commission to respond to those three separate reports calling for a proactive action.
madam president, i certainly welcome this oral question because of the ludicrous situation we now see at boarding gates where misinformed passengers – and not only misinformed passengers, but also those being picked on arbitrarily – are having rows with the staff. i have been involved in such a row myself, so i do know what this is about. we need some consistency. we also know that retail activities have increased at many airports, and excessive restrictions can be a problem there. i agree with the commissioner that some differentiation does favour competition. so i favour some rules, but not over-stringent rules. what i think we should be looking for is a minimum upper limit. i do not think we can have a single upper limit, because the needs of low-cost and short-haul airlines are very different from those of long-haul operators. the fuselages are very different too, so you can carry a lot more baggage on long-haul flights. i think we need some rules, but they need to be light-touch and sensible.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i have always had concerns with respect to this proposed regulation. can mandatory origin-marking prevent counterfeiting of goods when they are per se imitations? how accurate can origin-marking be in identifying the country where the marked products really originate, taking account of the complexity of modern supply chains? in a globalised world are the costs resulting from mandatory origin-marking bearable for enterprises? these are all very valid questions. however, aside from the issues of trade regulations and wto compatibility, i recognise and understand a growing demand by consumers to know where their good come from. they want to know for a variety of reasons, ranging from a desire to support their own national industries to the right to exercise choice based on the political or environmental performance of the source country. i say to the commission, it is time to move on. in the days when i can now walk into a store, point my mobile phone at a product and it tells me the complexities of that supply chain – it is well within our capabilities and it is not protectionist. it is simply giving consumers the information that they demand. i say listen to parliament. we are close to consumers. this is an important issue so do not give up.
madam president, consumers want to know where products come from, and this applies especially to food products; so it is right that we are discussing rules of origin. i must make the point, however, that what consumers want to know is the country of origin. they want to see ‘made in england’, ‘made in france’, ‘made in italy’, ‘made in germany’, ‘made in denmark’ and so on. there may even be a few consumers who want to see ‘made in romania’, but what consumers do not want to see is ‘made in the eu.’ this is why i am expressing the hope – but it is only a hope, and i suspect a vain hope – that these rules are not going to be another device to put us on the road to a european super-state.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the potential benefits of an agreement between the eu and mercosur are enormous – a combined market of over 800 million citizens. however, it is regrettable that we now find ourselves no further forward, almost three years since the relaunch of negotiations. both parties need to give significant political backing in order to move negotiations forward. both sides must be willing to open up their markets in a mutually beneficial manner, and it is in this vein that i condemn recent protectionist measures taken by some mercosur countries. for example, there is a strong case to be made for repeated and systemic violation of wto rules by argentina, including cases where the wto should rule in favour of the eu. there are tense relations between the uk and argentina due to the fact that we respect the un-enshrined right of the falkland islanders to self-determination. we are worried that these relations have led to discrimination against british businesses. this is, of course, unacceptable. we must continue to encourage open markets, and i call on the support of the parliament and member states against unjustified economic actions.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, let me take the opportunity to address brazil. brazil has a gross domestic product of usd 2.48 trillion; by comparison the uk’s gdp is usd 2.43 trillion. the arithmetic is that the uk economy is 97% of the size of the brazilian economy. on trade, 37% of brazil’s trade is with other countries in latin and central america. this is comparable to the uk’s 40% of trade with the eu countries. however, there is a critical difference between brazil and the uk. there is nobody – absolutely nobody – in brazil who considers brazil’s 37% of trade with the other mercosur countries to be any sort of reason at all for brazil to enter into a political union. by contrast, in the uk the professional politicians from the establishment parties repeat incessantly that the 40% of uk trade with the eu – which, incidentally, is not only in substantial deficit but is proportionately declining – is of itself an entire justification for britain to be in a political union with the member states of the eu. this argument, for the uk, is not just bizarre but empty and completely bogus, and i look forward to revisiting it in due course.
mr president, to date these talks has been unsuccessful, and of course we are grateful this morning to the commissioner for bringing us up to date on where they now stand. commissioner, you have indicated this morning that the talks are soon to reach a stage where you will have to decide on whether to exchange offers in terms of market access for goods, services and public procurement agreements. this morning i want to remind you that the potential impact of this trade agreement for northern ireland and other countries which rely on agriculture and especially the beef sector could indeed be devastating. some have estimated that such an agreement would cost the eu agriculture upwards of eur 13 billion – a high price to pay indeed. commissioner, i want to have your assurance this morning that agriculture will not be sacrificed when you start or make the decision on market access officers. you said specifically in your opening statement this morning that you want a balanced, ambitious and comprehensive agreement with mercosur. can you give us and the farmers that i represent in northern ireland an assurance that, in the harsh economic climate which they face – with rising input costs, static farm gate prices and lower profit margins on top of a potentially reduced cap budget and a commission proposal which puts little emphasise on food production – you will step in to protect farmers in northern ireland and across the eu?
mr president, whilst i am not an enthusiast for the european union, if we must have it, i prefer it to be more european rather than less european. these negotiations between the eu and mercosur – and many other trading associations – show that the eu is not exclusively, or even mainly, focused on europe. it is globalist. it has the ambitions that all cosmopolitans and neo-liberals have, of a borderless, undifferentiated world in which goods, services and people will move without let or hindrance. the result of this is not only that eventually all distinctive peoples and therefore cultures will disappear, but that all wage rates and standards of living will approximate to the same level – which would not be the level that modern europeans enjoy. the theory of international trade is that the world as a whole will be richer as the result of comparative advantage. however, it is not necessarily true that each country or continent, or each social group and sector, will also be richer.
mr president, this issue has a very strong possibility of opening pandora’s box for many sectors of the european agricultural industry, and it certainly sends a chill down the spine. i had the opportunity a number of years ago to go to brazil and see for myself that, despite what the commission were telling us at that time – despite all the assurances they were giving that brazil was the perfect place for producing beef – we found something totally to the contrary. let me make it very clear. the traceability issues for brazil and argentina must have the same standards as those imposed within europe – not equivalent; they must be the same or even better. we have to look at the implications for our beef sector within that. let me be very clear about this – and i will not change my mind on this: for many countries, be it brazil, argentina, the far east or anywhere else, food produced that does not meet the same stringent standards as we produce in the european union, should not be allowed in. it is as simple as that. we have got to keep that particular position – that is a principle that we must never bend the knee on.
in writing. – as we look today at the negotiations on the eu-mercosur trade agreement, we must first ask ourselves how reliable are our partners? as argentina’s economic woes mount, its president is making delusional and distressing demands over the sovereignty of a self-governing british overseas territory. the invasion and occupation of the falkland islands 30 years ago by argentina was condemned around the world. this included the european community which imposed sanctions on argentina. the people of the falklands are british and have chosen to be so. yet, the islanders’ freedom to choose their future is again being threatened by an aggressive argentina. the islanders will have their say on whether the falklands remain a british overseas territory in a referendum in march. we must listen to the voice of the islanders not to the desperate sabre-rattling of the beleaguered argentine president.
mr president, one of the phenomena of modern life is the mass migration of peoples around the world from south to north. but another way of looking at it is that it is a mass migration of peoples from arbitrary, artificial states to states which are rooted in some kind of national consciousness. one of the peculiarities of the european system was the development of the nation state as a political concept. iraq is a very classic example of an arbitrary state without any ethnographic basis. you can infer that from looking at the straight lines that comprise its borders on the map. the three ottoman provinces of basra, mosul and baghdad were more or less randomly yoked together for reasons of realpolitik pertaining to other countries. and the only way that countries like that historically have been able to function is because one group, usually a minority group, has established some kind of hegemony over the others, as was indeed the case in that unhappy land. the best thing we could do for a country like iraq – or indeed syria if the revolution there continues – is to move towards a proper devolution of power, to cantonalism or even, if people want, to referendums on separation. but of course that would have implications for us here in the european union and we refuse to look those implications in the face.
in writing. − i abstained in this vote because i do not believe the eu should conclude an agreement with iraq when there is increasing use of the death penalty. i recognise there have been many positive developments since 2005 but the government has failed to provide basic services for its people. i am lobbied by many constituents in wales who are concerned about the people of iraq and i could not, therefore, give my full support to the resolution.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which ‘stresses the need to give absolute priority to political dialogue with the iraqi authorities on the abolition of the death penalty and support for the fundamental principles of the european union; calls on the iraqi government to abolish the death penalty, as a first step, and to declare and implement immediately a moratorium on executions’.
in writing. − mr president, the ecr group accepts the need to sign the partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq. however, we abstained during the vote on the resolution on the situation in the country. while pointing out numerous valid and important issues, like the urgent need to improve the dire situation of christians, to combat enormous corruption, or to resolve humanitarian problems facing the ordinary people, the text unfortunately is not critical enough on the policies of the al-maliki government. we cannot forget about his close ties with regimes in iran and in syria, active engagement in supplying arms for the assad regime or lack of commitment to improving the living conditions in camp ashraf and camp hurriya.
in writing. − the majority of the eu support given to national governments in this manner ends up being used up by local government on ‘expenses’ and not on the people actually in need and there need to be stricter controls in place to prevent this. also, we have seen over recent years how the contracts arising from such projects end up being awarded to large international contractors, not to indigenous businesses.
in writing. − i abstained in this vote because i do not believe the eu should conclude agreements with countries where human rights are abused and which use the death penalty. i recognise there have been many positive developments since 2005 but the death penalty is increasingly used and the government has failed to provide basic services for its people. over the years i have been lobbied by many constituents in wales who are concerned about the people of iraq and i could not, therefore, give my full support to this agreement.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. there are three aspects to the agreement. the first is political and involves the introduction of an annual dialogue at ministerial and at senior official level on peace, foreign and security policy, national dialogue and reconciliation, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, good governance and regional stability and integration. clauses on combating terrorism, countering proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against the illicit trade of small arms and light weapons are included in the agreement. with specific regard to human rights, the agreement very importantly features a specific clause concerning cooperation on the accession of iraq to the rome statute of the international criminal court (icc) and a clause on cooperation in the promotion and effective protection of human rights in iraq with the important caveat that failure by iraq to protect, enhance and respect human rights will negatively affect cooperation and economic development programmes. this approach is certainly most welcome, although a stricter conditionality would have given greater emphasis on the importance of substantial progress in human rights. it is recommended that the bilateral discussions with iraqi authorities highlight the particular importance the eu attaches to the observance of human rights and individual fundamental freedoms.
mr president, i met a fascinating mp from uganda last month and i said to her: ‘what is the effect of all the eu aid that you get? does it help?’ and she said: ‘it is not useless. it is actively harmful.’. and she then gave me some statistics comparing countries that are in receipt of overseas aid and countries that are not, and she showed the differential growth rates: the ones that do not receive aid do better. the same was true of debt remission. the countries that did not have debt remission tended not to be as indebted as the ones that had benefited and immediately indebted themselves again. so i said: ‘well, in that case, what can we do for you?’ she said: ‘if you want to give aid, please do not give it to governments. just announce that there will be a project, say to build highways, take tenders from local companies and then you will leave behind at the end not only the highway but a company that knows how to gain a contract honestly rather than through bribery.’ but she said: ‘if you really want to help, the way you can do it most effectively would not cost you a penny. it is to withdraw your tariffs against our exports, above all our agrarian exports.’ so here is a way that we could raise the quality of living for european consumers at the same time as helping some of the poorest people in the world, simply by scrapping the common agricultural policy.
in writing. − i am concerned about democracy and human rights in the region and do not feel that zimbabwe is making progress or that the interim epa has any impact. i abstained.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution. the economic partnership agreements can undermine efforts towards regional integration and result in tax revenue loss for governments. there are also concerns about human rights which constituents in wales regularly draw to my attention.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, which ‘stresses that freedom of assembly, association and expression are essential components of democracy to which zimbabwe fully committed itself under the gpa; draws attention to the current consent procedure, emphasising that the ratification of the iepa with the european union is a further opportunity to reiterate the need for full implementation of those commitments and obligations’.
mr president, i welcome the promotion of free trade as the cornerstone of eu external commercial policy. the cotonou agreement enabled african, caribbean and pacific countries to have a trade and development relationship with us covering not just trade in goods but also services, trade-related rules and development cooperation. because it was not possible in all acp regions to finalise the negotiations before the cotonou trade regime expired in december 2007, a series of interim agreements were concluded to minimise any disruption before the expiry date. so the interim epa with madagascar, mauritius, seychelles and zimbabwe has to be seen as a stepping stone to a wider and more comprehensive deal currently under negotiation between the european union and the whole of eastern and southern africa. we must encourage the negotiations for a comprehensive epa with all countries of eastern and southern africa, including those which did not join the interim one, such as ethiopia, which is a country i know and have a lot of admiration for. we want to conclude an agreement at a regional level which supports sustainable development and fosters regional integration, because that is the way to prosperity and better development for the african continent.
in writing. − those countries obviously need help and support to let them use their natural goods and production, but there are serious concerns about human rights, especially in zimbabwe, so we decided to abstain.
in writing. − i voted against this report. the economic partnership agreements can undermine efforts towards regional integration and result in tax revenue loss for governments. there are also concerns about human rights which constituents in wales regularly draw to my attention. i supported the amendments put forward by my group but as these were rejected i could not support the report.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. in 2000 the acp and eu agreed to conclude new trading arrangements compatible with the world trade organisation (wto) rules to replace the unilateral regime of trade preferences granted by the eu to imports from the acp that prevailed at the time. this agreement with madagascar, mauritius, the seychelles and zimbabwe is a further step in fulfilling that commitment.
mr president, who can disagree with the objectives of a state aid modernisation programme? commissioner almunia has said that the over-arching goal of his reform is that, in times of shrinking budgets, eu member states have do more with less. british conservatives welcome the commission’s reality check; it is of course sensible to try to help national governments make more efficient use of scarce resources. but better still, the commission wants to target aid that promotes innovation, green technologies and training. but it always pays to be vigilialant. the proposal calls for the use of the codecision procedure, instead of consultation of parliament, in the field of eu competition policy. it is an article of faith for conservative meps that competition policy should not be politicised; it should be a purely economic and not a political process. so why does mr almunia want to resile his executive powers to the legisative process? the provision of private services needs to be liberalised not state aided. the single market must be completed and not unduly protected.
mr president, some of the titles of these debates are oxymoronic, not to say moronic. state aid modernisation. i mean is that not just the most wonderful retro title redolent of the early seventies when britain made the fateful decision to join the european union? it brings back memories of three-day weeks and prices and incomes policies and a belief that government could pick winners and occupy the commanding heights of the economy. we learnt in the seventies what happens when you pursue that policy. the end of that road is indebtedness, poverty and hyper-inflation and yet we have set out on that road again in the four years since the disastrous decision to bail out the banks. and we are not only making that mistake at national level. we have elevated it to a pan-continental level. there is no such thing as modern state aid. state aid is the most nostalgic and backward-looking policy. if we want state aid modernisation in europe, modernisation means abolition.
in writing. − whilst the current system obviously needs reform, we do not agree with the concept of eu state aid. i abstained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a change in the way decisions on state aid policy are made. i believe that parliament should have co-decision rights and not merely be consulted. we need better targeted aid and more communication between member states and the commission. state aid rules are very important to wales in building our economy so this was an important report for us.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which ‘stresses that competition policy must enable appropriate state support for the ecological transformation of the economy, in particular with regard to renewables and energy efficiency, and that the new guidelines should be based on this premise’.
in writing. − we support the resolution on state aid, in particular the call for much more democratic oversight of state aid policy. the commission must take into account the views of meps, national and regional/local authorities in the development of state aid policy. earlier this week, the commission released a draft version of the revised state aid guidelines for regional aid. the proposals seek to prohibit aid to large companies in category (c) areas and to reduce aid intensity. while some aspects of the proposal are welcome, local authorities from across the uk have made it clear to the commission that these proposals could jeopardise economic recovery in regions with high levels of unemployment where large firms are often the catalyst for growth. the commission needs to respond to these legitimite concerns and meet with representatives of local authorities before finalising the new rules later this year.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution to agree with further strengthening the eu’s view of state aid and to reflect on the concerns made by many across europe. economic conditions are not optimum for many reasons, which means the environment both politically and economically mitigates against best outcomes. however, it is vitally important that europe gets state aid right. it is key that rules applied across the eu can be shown to have the same force in all member states. at the same time there is great sympathy and some support i know for the damaging effects of ill-thought-out and too speedy an introduction of changes associated with these rules. public debt is the european watchword but opportunism has been the context for some in the past. a balance has to be struck.
in writing. − we support the resolution on state aid, in particular the call for much more democratic oversight of state aid policy. the commission must take into account the views of meps, national and regional/local authorities in the development of state aid policy. earlier this week, the commission released a draft version of the revised state aid guidelines for regional aid. the proposals seek to prohibit aid to large companies in category (c) areas and to reduce aid intensity. while some aspects of the proposal are welcome, local authorities from across the uk have made it clear to the commission that these proposals could jeopardise economic recovery in regions with high levels of unemployment where large firms are often the catalyst for growth. the commission needs to respond to these legitimate concerns and meet with representatives of local authorities before finalising the new rules later this year.
mr president, there have been a number of fires in south asia regarding factory workers, particularly in garment factories. one was in pakistan. today we had this terrible report on what happened in bangladesh. we also have to recognise that the government of bangladesh has taken notice of what has happened and has put in place great measures to ameliorate the damage done. each of the families who suffered has received compensation from the government, from the prime minister herself, of something like usd 7 500, and the ministry of labour and employment has put in place the implementation of the bangladesh labour act which implements fire precautions. over 1 300 workers at the fire-ravaged fashion company have received five months’ salary, so they are conscious of the tragedy that has happened. they are conscious that they need to do something, but we also need to help them because bangladesh depends … (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. − we are very saddened about these bangladeshi textile fires and understand the grief of the families and friends of those who died or were hurt in the blazes. however, we are not in agreement with the european external action service and do not agree with the eu being involved in foreign affairs in this manner. i abstained from voting.
in writing. − hundreds of workers have died in factory fires in bangladesh and pakistan in the last few months. the resolution allowed parliament to express its sorrow and call for improvements in safety in this sector. i voted in favour on behalf of my constituents in wales who would also want to show their sympathy.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which, in the light of the terrrible tradegy in a textile factory in bangladesh, calls on the commission actively to promote mandatory responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, with a special focus on ensuring strict compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular international standards and rules in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment.
in writing. − hundreds of workers are killed each year across south asia in fires in the workplace, with the most recent disaster taking place in a factory in dhaka, bangladesh, where 112 people tragically lost their lives. alarming figures show that in bangladesh alone, 600 garment workers have been killed in factory fires since 2005. the european market is the largest export destination for bangladeshi garments and textiles and i believe we have a clear responsibility to make sure that workers manufacturing clothes for the european market are being properly protected. i support calls for the governments of bangladesh and pakistan to put in place health and safety legalisation to help protect workers and i welcome the work taking place between the bangladesh fire and safety agreement and trade unions to improve safety standards at production sites. finally, i firmly support the proposal to promote responsible conduct among eu companies operating aboard and to make sure there are strict rules in place to make sure international standards are met in the areas of human rights, labour and environment.
in writing. − i send my deepest condolences to the families of the 117 men and women who died in the tazreen fashion factory fire in dhaka in november last year. about half a million british-bangladeshis live in the united kingdom today and i am always active in supporting the bangladeshi community in my constituency of london. while i believe that worker safety must be a priority, the bangladeshis whom i meet in london remind me that, as the third biggest garments exporter in the world, much of the country’s economy depends on textile exports to the eu. as a stable and secular democracy, we should be supporting not punishing bangladesh. garment factories employ 3 million people, the majority of whom are poor women. i support strategic aid projects such as the eu and germany’s eur 2.4 million project to support labour standards in the garment industry. safer workers are better workers and the international community should back bangladesh to ensure that tragedies such as the november dhaka fire never happen again.
in writing. − we are opposed to weapons of mass destruction, but believe the uk’s efforts on non-proliferation are much more efficient than the eu would ever be and that the uk is the best player to carry out such discussions on the global scene on behalf of the british people. i abstained from voting
in writing. − as a former chair of cnd cymru (wales) and a longstanding anti-nuclear campaigner, i was pleased to vote in favour of this resolution and to see the cross-party support it received. the conference on the middle east has been postponed once already. it is vital that it is convened as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution and deplore the postponement of the 2012 conference on the establishment of a middle east zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution, which calls for the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free area in the middle east. i reiterate the concerns expressed in this report regarding the postponement of the conference which would have debated this issue and which was to take place last year, and support calls for the un to ensure it is reorganised in 2013. the foundation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone would improve international stability and constitute a significant step in establishing peace and minimising the possibility of nuclear combat.
mr president, is it vitally necessary to stamp ‘made in the uk’ on every product made in my country? although emotionally appealing, this proposed regulation is all about compulsion, rarely welcomed by business. it can add to commercial costs without providing a durable consumer benefit. one problem is the accuracy of country-of-origin marking in the first place. one has to take into account the complexity of production and supply chains in a globalised world and ask whether the costs from compulsion would make mandatory origin-marking a reasonable thing for business. what effect would the implementation of this regulation have on open and fair trade with third countries? i am not alone in my concerns. the council did not reach a common position on the proposal, and the commission announced that it will withdraw the regulation. we need to understand why the proposal was withdrawn and what the commission is going to do next. whatever it is, it must undergo a full economic impact assessment for agri-business before going ahead.
in writing. − although i believe a failure to impose ‘made-in’ labelling would be a setback for british consumer rights and a missed opportunity to protect jobs in europe, we are not in favour of eu imposed legislation. i abstained from voting.
in writing. − i have supported the resolution calling on the european commission not to withdraw its mark of origin proposal and for the european council to finally accept them. i have fought for 15 years, on behalf of the west midlands ceramics industry, for such a proposal to enter into force and to include ceramics. i will certainly not give up now, because of the reluctance of some member states. ceramic producers want it. trade unions want it. the european commission and the european parliament want it. the decision now rests with the uk and the other member states of the eu as to whether we seriously want to protect the industry and its jobs and give consumers a real choice. let us make the protection of our industries and our consumers through eu solidarity the best example of why the uk is better off in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. i have worked closely in recent years with the welsh farming unions and with consumer groups on better labelling. studies have shown that it is what consumers want. in wales we have top quality produce and people increasingly want to buy welsh and buy local. that means they have to know the origin of products. the commission must act on this without delay. the fact that the uk government is opposed to this demonstrates once again that the uk does not act in the welsh national interest.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal, which calls on the commission, as a matter of urgency, to initiate a comparative study of the legislative regulations on origin marking currently in force in and implemented in each wto member country, with a view to analysing the underlying principles and evaluating compatibility with wto rules.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which requires labels on imports from third countries to state where the product originates from. this is in response to the commission’s plans to withdraw the ‘made in’ regulation, which parliament strongly backed in 2010. this resolution now asks the commission to either change its mind or table an alternative. i fully support parliament’s resolution because i believe this is an important step for consumer rights; mandatory ‘made in’ labelling is essential in allowing buyers to make informed choices. there should be no double standards where some countries have labels on products and others do not. this is not fair to citizens, consumers or to manufacturers.
mr president, the eu is latin america’s second largest trading partner after the us, and its leading investor. although only a handful of european countries are commercially active in the region, the gbp 200 billion of direct investment is not spread evenly across the continent. mexico, argentina, brazil and chile take the lion’s share of this money but they are not responding with measures to open their markets. thus the free trade agreement negotiations with mercosur in the south are not easy. no date has yet been set for the exchange of market access. this is very unfortunate. argentina is more interested in nationalist posturing over the falkland islands and has little interest – as one would expect i suppose from the peronist party – in opening its markets to free trade. one only has to recall the recent hostile nationalisation of spain’s ypf repsol, without compensation, by the argentine government. however, since then, several mercosur members have imposed further protectionist measures. we are not winning the battle to liberalise trade in south america. so it is good to be updated by this communication from the commission. we need to understand what obstacles remain to progress, because ultimately we need to have very good relations – trade, political and every kind of relationship – with latin america, which shares our values and is composed largely of democracies like the member states of the european union.
mr president, if supranationalism was going to work in any part of the world, latin america would be the chief candidate. the countries concerned have a congruent language – in fact, they almost all have the same language. brazilians can understand spanish although, as we both know, sadly and unfairly, the reverse is not true. and there is a religious, a cultural, a historical continuity; the schemes for merger have been there since the days of bolivar and san martín. to this day there is a community that you can see even by watching the abominable interchangeable soap operas of that part of the world. and yet, stubbornly, politely, the countries have retained their national democratic independence, despite the best efforts of the european union to pressure them with trade and aid deals into forming a supranational union on the eu model. i had not appreciated until i got to this place the extent to which organisations like mercosur are not indigenous bodies that the eu just happens to support, but are creatures of either the european union or its proxy organisations such as the konrad adenauer foundation. if supranational federation does not even work in south america, what hope of it working where there is a far wider cultural and linguistic diversity in this part of the world?
in writing. − several mercosur members have imposed further protectionist measures and we are committed to protecting british interests in latin america. we also believe that argentina is more interested in nationalist posturing over the falkland islands and not really concerned about opening up its markets to free trade. i abstained from voting.
in writing. − together with my group i voted against this joint resolution. i am not convinced that there is a case for speeding up negotiations on an association agreement or that the strategy is correct. i will be raising this issue with ngos active on aid issues in wales.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which reiterates the importance of including respect for democratic principles, fundamental and human rights and the rule of law as well as environmental and social standards in all trade agreements concluded between the eu and third countries, in order to achieve greater coherence in external actions, both reflecting the eu’s economic interests and promoting its fundamental values.
author. − mr president, we must remember that india is a strong, secular democratic country with a firm commitment to human rights. much of the comment directed at india since this appalling murder has lambasted its so-called ‘rape culture’, but given the report’s statistics on rape and sexual assault in europe, and indeed worldwide, we must be extremely careful before throwing stones from glass houses. india has over one billion people. that of course is not to say that we cannot engage with our indian partners to explore ways of improving women’s lives, or that india cannot do more to promote gender equality and protect vulnerable citizens, particularly the lower castes. certainly there have been disturbing examples of apparent indifference to sexual violence amongst the authorities, particularly with the dalits. so any sign of this attitude changing should be greatly welcomed. indeed, if the tragic fate of this young woman can facilitate a new generation of indian women to challenge patriarchal attitudes and break the stigma and silence surrounding rape victims, then we can only hope that her death will not have been in vain. i take this opportunity on behalf of the ecr group to send my condolences to her family and the families of all similarly affected victims.
blue-card question. – does mr czarnecki agree with me that the president of india is a woman and that the population of india is 1.2 billion, which is more than double the size of the european union? i am sure that, sadly, there are probably approximately the same number of rapes and unreported rapes in the european union, which is a terrible crime. would mr czarnecki agree that actually the country with the highest per-capita incidence of rape in the world is neither india nor a muslim country, but the republic of south africa? rape is a global phenomenon which does not apply just to india. would you agree with that, mr czarnecki?
author. − mr president, let me make it clear that much of what has happened in the kingdom of bahrain since the anti-government protests began two years again has been unacceptable. the police have frequently acted with gross disproportionality, and innocent protestors have indeed been killed. it goes without saying that those responsible for such outrages and crimes must be brought to justice. my group, the ecr, shares with other groups profound concerns about the withdrawal of citizenship from some of the protestors; issues of judicial impartiality also come to mind, and the limits placed on freedom of expression more broadly are an issue. nevertheless, we must bear in mind the existential challenges to bahrain’s constitutional monarchy and the risks posed by iran in particular. the consequences of a successful iranian attempt to topple the pro-western government would be disastrous. we therefore welcome the resolution urging the promotion of free speech, an end to authoritarian violence and the investigation of alleged abuses. i have no doubt that the whole chamber will share the desire for both a stable bahraini government and a comprehensive commitment to human rights for all and democracy in that kingdom.
madam president, important places are missing from the outermost regions report – for example saint helena, the falkland islands and gibraltar, to name but three. all are british territories overseas. the outermost regions report covers french departments across an ocean, and spanish and portuguese possessions well beyond europe. those countries are simply part of the member states concerned. the report even adds the ‘missing’ french overseas department of mayotte. the places i have listed must be given the chance to be an integral part of the united kingdom. i can announce to this parliament and to the british people that this is ukip policy. we promise to incorporate these places into the uk. as cayenne in french guyana is to paris, so will stanley in the falklands be to london: it will have the same status as norwich. we believe a ‘yes’ in next month’s referendum in the falklands should be a step towards that status. if further referenda are wanted, we will offer them. whilst the uk is in the eu, any future outermost regions report should include the uk, in the atlantic.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this resolution should have no political colouring: violence against women is unacceptable whichever side of the chamber you sit on. there is no justification for violence by one person against another person, especially when violence is based on fear, vulnerability and control. where we differ is the route taken to stop violence. i believe governments have a duty to protect their citizens, work with any legal tools available to eliminate violence against women, prevent violence, and offer provision for care and prosecution where necessary. member states, within the boundaries of their own legal system, must do everything they can to bring abusers to justice. but the real work must be bottom-up. we must educate children that violence is unacceptable. we must raise awareness amongst women that domestic violence is unacceptable, and we must empower women to understand that they do not have to put up with any sort of violence. we must strengthen institutes, associations and groups who support victims of violence – and here i give credit to the work done by the daphne project. we need more training for professionals, including doctors, nurses and health visitors, on how to identify and deal with violence against women. we have to educate communities that violence such as fgm is not part of their cultural heritage but a form of direct violence on young girls and women. rape, domestic violence, fgm, psychological abuse and war crimes against women are all forms of violence which destroy lives well after the physical scars have healed. only by strengthening people’s resolve against all forms of violence, by highlighting it as unacceptable in a civilised society, and by supporting that resolve by member-state-driven legislation, can we hope to win this battle.
madam president, when we discuss violence against women, there is a desperate attempt to avoid mentioning the giant green elephant in our midst: islam. islam’s inherent devaluing of women and hostility to unbelievers combine to make it the greatest threat to millions of women and girls in many parts of the eu. in britain, the crime of on-street grooming for sex, drugs and prostitution is directed against thousands of girls as young as 10. many of the victims are beaten, threatened and gang-raped. while the majority community produces many perpetrators of internet paedophilia and one-on-one sex crimes, paedophile gang rape is a crime in which the perpetrators are overwhelmingly muslim, while their innocent victims are invariably from other communities. in my constituency, 14-year-old charlene downes was groomed, raped and murdered. her body has never been found. the case against two muslim men collapsed on a technicality; however, while the police say that they are not looking for anyone else, they continue to ignore evidence of jury rigging and refuse to seek a retrial. charlene’s mother and grandmother are bravely and actively campaigning for justice. shockingly, this has resulted in both of them being repeatedly threatened with arrest for involvement in entirely peaceful protests. the problem of officialdom turning a blind eye to the inconvenient truth about islam and sexual violence is thus endemic. i urge those here who are concerned about this issue to face the politically-incorrect truth, because denial will not make the problem go away. justice for charlene downs! (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, while the people on that side of the house are denying the facts, thousands more young girls will suffer as a direct consequence of your denial. of course islam is directly involved. when you have a religion which says that a woman’s rights in court are half those of a man, when you have a religion which says that a woman who is raped can be stoned to death for adultery unless she can produce four male witnesses to prove she is innocent, then of course that creates a mentality within that community which is fundamentally anti-women. it started with muhammad, who raped a captive – a jewish captive – whose husband he just had murdered. he started that, and he is regarded by muslims as the perfect man. his example colours what muslims do. many muslims do not, but within their community this is real problem. you need to recognise that fact and address it, not run away from it.
blue-card question. – you say your heart beats strongly for women raped in india – mine does, too – but does your heart not also beat for the thousands of young girls gang-raped in britain over the last few years, or are you simply left in ignorance because the facts are concealed by the controlled liberal media?
mr president, we are debating this issue today on what would have marked rosa parks’ 100th birthday, and i am sure she would have agreed that a zero-tolerance approach to violence against women and girls – wherever it occurs – has to be our goal. the commissioner outlined the shocking statistics that one in five women in the eu had suffered violence, and that one in ten had suffered forced sexual violence. this cannot be tolerated. we have to do more. i was also pleased to hear from the commissioner this evening that our approach to condemning violence against women and girls also applies to her external relations policy. during the last strasbourg session we debated the tragic case of the young medical student in india who died from her injuries after a horrific gang rape. according to amnesty international, a rape is reported every 21 minutes in india, but not all rapes are reported. of those rapes that were reported in 2011, only one led to a conviction. it is therefore right that this parliament expresses solidarity with the victims of these crimes to ensure that, across the world, violence and sexual assault against women is a crime.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, i was very pleased that the employment committee decided to write an opinion on this very important topic. after all, helping small and micro-businesses to grow will lead to new jobs, and that has to be the right focus for the work of the employment committee. as a draftsman of our opinion i really would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his constructive report, and i am glad to see that it includes a number of our recommendations. the financial crisis has hit small businesses very hard, and the unwillingness of financial institutions to lend has dampened growth and job opportunities. we need improved access to loans and credit at affordable rates. in the uk – and i am sorry to be a bit parochial – we need to bring back the old-fashioned bank manager with discretion to lend. they knew the area, they knew the business climate and they knew the individual borrowers. anyway, it is important that we discuss other options available to smes and raise awareness of non-bank routes too, such as peer-to-peer lending and micro-financed schemes. while there are initiatives at eu level, including cosme and horizon 2020, my opinion discussed the possibilities of using these initiatives to equip potential and existing entrepreneurs with the appropriate skills, tools and knowledge required for successful financial management. i fully agree with the rapporteur on the importance of reducing the administrative burden on smes and accelerating the implementation of the late payment directive. the eu should do everything possible to ensure that new regulations do not place disproportionate burdens on smes and micro-enterprises. properly assisted, and not tied up in knots with red tape, smes will help to maximise europe’s potential as part of the dynamic, innovating and growing economy that we can become.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, the financial crisis has had a strong impact on smes, particularly in relation to accessing finance to fund business activities, which has become much harder. the commission’s action plan outlines regulatory measures and solutions to improve access to finance for smes, and many colleagues in parliament have added to this by putting forward further important points for consideration. as rapporteur for the opinion of the legal affairs committee, i raised several key points which i thought required further consideration, including the cross-border legal issues which smes face when trying to obtain finance in other member states, the lack of availability of small loans, and even discrimination in access to finance. alternative finance, such as business angels, crowd-funding platforms and peer-to-peer lending can be one way forward for smes. however, there is a lack of coherence in european and national legislation, which means that the commission and member states are now required to put forward ways to tackle these difficulties. smes in europe are very diverse. there is no one size that fits all, and any future regulatory framework should reflect this. we should also continue to apply the ‘think small first’ principle and remember that smes are key to the economic recovery of europe.
mr president, smes account for 98 % of all eu businesses. they provide 67 % of all private sector employment. they are responsible for 85 % of all new jobs in the european union. they are quite clearly the backbone of our economies. providing the right circumstances for their viability is essential for our growth, and access to finance must therefore be a top priority for us. we need to improve provision, process and access to information on financing instruments for smes. even larger businesses struggle to find the information they require. what chance can there be for smes in those circumstances? as an mep i get inquiries all the time and i have now had to go away and produce a leaflet for businesses to distribute to them, electronically and otherwise, directing them where they can go. we need to have a much wider approach. i come from a nation of shopkeepers. we must think small first, and exclude smes from burdens unless the benefits outweigh those burdens.
mr president, i would also like to join in thanking the rapporteur for his work on this issue. we are all aware that smes are the backbone of the eu’s economy, and nowhere is that more evident than in my own region of northern ireland, where they account for more than 99% of all businesses. along with the absolute necessity to reduce red tape and bureaucracy, the single biggest challenge facing smes is the current difficult economic climate and access to finance. the reluctance of banks to lend to small businesses is crippling growth and expansion at a time when it is crucially needed in order to get our economy performing well again and to create jobs. although many banks have promised to increase their lending to small businesses, the effects of this investment will take time to demonstrate results. as the report points out, the special characteristics of smes are now recognised for the purposes of funding programmes such as horizon 2020, and this is a very positive move that will hopefully increase levels of uptake of funding and financing for small businesses from different sources.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday (5 february 2013). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by kartika tamara liotard, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing (com(2012)0083 – 2012/2258(ini)) (a7-0029/2013).
in writing. – it is essential that, with a rapidly ageing population and with the effects of savage austerity being felt by the most vulnerable, we seek to protect older people from the very real risk of social exclusion. sidelining older people in society simply cannot be allowed. we must ensure that as much is done as possible to include them in the decision-making process. older people are an asset to our society and not a burden. ofmdfm’s small grants scheme last year to promote mutual respect and solidarity between the generations is a great example of what should be done to aid the inclusion of older people. it is also fantastic that in northern ireland we have our own commissioner for older people, claire keatinge, and an older people’s parliament. it is something to be proud of in northern ireland that we can be highlighted as a case of best practice in this area. i commend the work done to ensure older people remain equal participants in society.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, europe’s citizens owe a debt of gratitude to the many entrepreneurs who have shown the vision and the courage, the guts and the grit to keep parts of our industry competitive in times of epochal change and to keep people in jobs. the absence of an industrial policy, or at least of a coherent consensus on competitiveness, has hitherto hampered, rather than helped, their efforts. therefore liberals welcome the signs that an industrial policy is emerging – the renewed focus on ftas to secure market access, the plan for a connecting europe facility to create networks for transport and energy and information technology to underpin competitiveness, the investment in research and innovation, such as last week’s announcements on graphene and on human brain mapping, or the investment in the national composites centre in my constituency. we also welcome the energy roadmap 2050 and its focus on cheaper and cleaner energy and green growth. commissioner, as you gather in grenoble, convince your ministers not to allow their heads of state and government to cut deeply into the budgets for these things in their search for budgetary savings. rather sow in their minds the vision of what europe can achieve if the genius of a free people can be nurtured and nourished. focus on our investments for the future.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, in the final three months of 2012, the united kingdom’s economy shrank by 0.3% and the british people now face a triple-dip recession, unprecedented in our modern history. across the euro area, no one is expecting to see any kind of growth this year. the economic crisis has exposed the euro as a misconceived and politically-motivated currency agreement – one that has brought together countries of unequal economic strength and then straitjacketed them until the livelihoods of their people are crushed. we have seen the greece bailout – and then come portugal, ireland and even spain. cyprus will be next, and who knows which country will follow them. the real reason for the euro zone is to enforce ever-closer union, but it seems to have the reverse effect. citizens, in seeing economic growth, rightly ask why their taxes are being used as a lifeline for foreign collapsing economies. even in germany, which i know very well and which many call the industrial powerhouse of europe, there is no growth in jobs and no recovery. small and medium-sized businesses are suffering and others are being forced overseas, as are the jobs that go with them. our situation in the uk is similar to germany’s, only worse. the uk has high unemployment, very high and growing youth unemployment and rising energy costs. the outlook is bleak, with no industrial recovery. manufacturing now accounts for less than 16% of the uk economy. thirty years ago it was more than twice that. so-called green energy policies, which are pushed by the european commission, are killing and restricting potential growth areas, such as shale gas, which can provide jobs and cheap energy and in which the uk should be a world leader.
madam president, i would like to comment on the european sugar refining industry. cane refiners provide over 4 500 highly skilled jobs in some of the poorest regions of the eu. europe’s largest cane refinery is located in my constituency of london. the refinery is operating at 60% of its capacity because of a lack of supply from cane growers. the refinery has reported an operating loss of eur 41 million, and 28 members of staff have been made redundant. a further 67 members of staff have been forced to reduce their working hours. this all comes at a time when sugar prices in the eu are 80% above world prices. the cane refining industry needs raw materials. the commission can make this happen. the commission can protect jobs and save one of europe’s oldest manufacturing industries, but so far the commission has refused to throw cane refiners a lifeline. it must help european consumers by including sugar cane imports in its plans to reduce the soaring cost of sugar, and it must help cane refiners by ensuring a level playing field for them and beet processors.
madam president, today the european commission took an important step to try and bring stakeholders together to address the challenges of licensing in the digital world and to bring forward ideas by june 2013. with this in mind, i want to highlight the importance of finding a solution to ensure that libraries have access to e-books. currently, some publishers are already denying libraries access to books in an electronic format. this situation, if it is not resolved, could result in eu-wide book apartheid: those who can afford to will have access to knowledge, and those who cannot will be denied. if we are about creating a knowledge-based economy, we must ensure that libraries can offer their users books in an electronic format. it is critical for our future success. as commissioner vassiliou said today at the meeting in brussels, we need to improve access to knowledge. libraries allow us to do so, and we in this parliament must support them in all our communities.
madam president, i would like to bring to this chamber’s attention the rising number of cases of female genital mutilation (fgm) in europe. whilst i am aware that commissioner reding is working on this, i believe we, as meps, have a duty to put this issue on the agenda immediately. female genital mutilation is a horrific and violent act committed against young girls and children. fgm was criminalised in the uk in 1985. yet in the past 28 years there has not been one single prosecution in britain. i recently met a women’s human rights advocate who has been working on fgm in the uk for over 30 years. she told me that the uk was regarded as a soft touch. well, it is time to get tough. france, for example, whilst not having specific fgm legislation, has had hundreds of prosecutions against parents who have let their daughters be butchered in this way. i look to other meps to join me in the fight against this form of violence, to share their experience and data and to move towards eliminating this practice in all member states.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − mr president, we have indeed a historic vote tomorrow. we have a chance not only to do something good for fish and for fishermen, but also something good for europe, because without doubt the common fisheries policy has not been an ornament to this union. it has been criticised enormously, and not least by the commissioner, who has herself described it as a failure – and you cannot get more blunt than that. the problems, of course, have not been that we do not share our seas in common or our fish in common, but that the policy has been wrong. year after year, each december, ministers have got together and set tacs and quotas for the following year, too often ignoring the scientific advice and too often, let it be said, listening to the fishermen. fishermen can be their own worst enemy in looking only to the short term rather than planning for the long term, and urging ministers to exceed quotas even if it reduces fish stocks in the long term. now the commission has put forward proposals for change – long-term management plans for every fishery – and i thank the irish fisheries minister for the efforts he is making in freeing the logjam and ensuring that discussions take place between parliament and council to make progress on the dossier. we have a chance to rebuild fish stocks above maximum sustainable yield (msy), as we have heard, and to end discards, which are just a moral disgrace; it is a disgrace to throw millions of tonnes of perfectly edible fish overboard. of course there are going to be problems. there are going to be problems in managing mixed fisheries to achieve msy. and there will be problems in ending discards. but let us look to the goal. the goal is to rebuild fish stocks, to recreate the abundance that once existed and to restore our seas to that state. the problems will fade away and be easily dealt with if there are more fish in the seas, if there is a secure future for fishermen and if we have confidence in that future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i recently had occasion to look back over my 14 years in this parliament. lo and behold, in a speech here in strasbourg in february 1999, i said – and i quote – ‘i firmly believe that bringing the decision-making process closer to those who are most affected by the cfp and are responsible for its implementation would lead to more respect for the provisions of the cfp and a more successful policy per se’. in january 2001, i said ‘i contend that the principal objective of the cfp, namely the conservation of fish stocks, has not been realised, and as result we have had to face dramatic year-on-year fluctuations in quotas. in addition, we must re-examine the process by which, and the level at which, decisions are made. a system of zonal management should be established’, and so on. i restate that not in order to indicate how smart i might have been, but rather to illustrate the sad indictment of the failure of the cfp since we in this parliament were saying those things, and since now we hear many members saying exactly the same things. however, one significant improvement in the general situation is that everybody now accepts that the cfp has been a failure, and that includes the commissioner. thank you commissioner. hopefully this time, with our co-decision power, rather than the consultative input that we had in the past, we can actually get somewhere. i will be supporting measures which are designed to eliminate the scandal of discards, because that is another subject that i was raging about many years ago. it is still the case that the cfp is causing discards to a large extent. i think we should be building on the few successes that we have had in recent years, for example the 12-mile zone, where management by the fishing nations themselves has been relatively successful, scotland’s own efforts through its selectivity measures, through real-time closures decided upon by locals and moved around as required by the situation, cctv observation and conservation credits, in order to provide the incentive that was mentioned. so decentralisation is still for me the number one objective. for that reason, i oppose amendments like 253, which would centrally impose the closure of 10 % of waters, rather than leaving these matters to be decided on the basis of real circumstances. that amendment is going in the opposite direction of decentralisation. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i want to convey my appreciation to our rapporteur ms rodust on the painstaking work that she has done in bringing this report to this stage. i also want to convey a welcome to minister coveney to this house. the minister is no stranger to northern ireland’s fishing sector and we look forward to positive action during his time in charge in the council. let me focus on some specific policy areas. i agree that this parliament is right to support a ban on the discarding of fish. this is morally indefensible and should end. however, we must recognise that it is the very rules of the common fisheries policy that have contributed to such a situation. as well as this vote today, commissioner, i urge you to act in haste and look at the policies already in place which contribute to the discarding of fish and remedy this situation. i would commend those member states which have already launched initiatives to deal with fish discarding, and i want to recognise that the industry in northern ireland is being proactive with continuing work on gear selectivity. on regionalisation we are moving in the right direction. regional advisory councils are central to the policy, but they need to have the appropriate remit and resources to allow them to deliver a regional policy where decisions are based at regional level and not in the normal top-down brussels fashion. on 3 november 1976 the council agreed a resolution that extended the fishing zones of member states in the north sea and north atlantic to 200 miles. annex 7 to this resolution recognised the so-called ‘hague preference’ in order to take account of the needs of certain local communities particularly dependent upon fishing. greenland, the irish republic and the northern part of the united kingdom were defined as ‘hague preference’ regions. northern ireland, as part of the united kingdom, should benefit from the hague resolution, but does not. in fact, for some considerable time, our fishermen have had fishing opportunities taken away from them because of the resolution. fishermen from other parts of europe not classified as hague regions are penalised in a similar way. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – ms dodds, i am grateful to you for letting me put a question. you ended on the hague preference, and mr hudghton earlier on referred to how long he has been in this house. i have been here a lot longer than he has. ever since i have been in this house, the hague preference – would you not agree – has been the most discriminatory policy against northern ireland fishermen that has ever been seen. the hague preference worked totally against the small fishermen.
blue-card answer. – mr nicholson, thank you for your intervention. yes, the hague preference does discriminate against northern ireland’s fishermen. that resolution is 36 years old. far from enshrining it in a new common fisheries policy, we should be reviewing it. can i also say that the discarding of fish is wrong, mr nicholson, and our fishermen in northern ireland have been proactive in the matter of selective gears to try to eliminate this problem. we now need the commission also to look at the rules around the cfp and make sure that they are not contributing to the problem as well.
mr president, first of all let me congratulate ulrike rodust for her fortitude and all her hard work on this reform package. every speaker has mentioned the need to end discards. of course, we support that absolutely, but we must not forget, as diane dodds told us, that it was the commission who introduced the plethora of regulations that forced fishermen to discard fish. that is why an important part of this reform is regionalisation, devolving day-to-day management back to the member states. i am so glad that maria damanaki, since she came here, has recognised that micro-management from the centre has failed. so i welcome moves towards fishing up to msy levels and i welcome the introduction of regionalisation and the ending of discards, but there are still some missing links. we need more, and better, science on all of our fish stocks. we need to ask ourselves why, after years of cod recovery plans in the north sea, cod stocks are still not significantly improving. we need to look at the impact of climate change, and indeed the impact of sea mammal predation on fish stocks. that seems to me to be the missing link in all the commission’s work. i am glad that in simon coveney we have a minister who is now willing to tackle the interinstitutional dispute and get the multiannual plans back on track.
mr president, for 40 years we waited for the commission to grace us with some amendments to the common fisheries policy, in which time the eu has emaciated the british fleet to half its size, ruined local jobs and coastal towns and destroyed our fish stocks. so while i am glad that the obscene practice of discards is being addressed, it cannot be denied that the eu has a terrible record in the fishing industry. this reform package does not change the fact that no matter who a person votes for, no matter which party is in power, no matter how bad the policy, nothing can be done in the uk to change it. the british people and parliament and her majesty the queen will also be alarmed to discover that amendment 63 would create a new power, without a word of objection by her majesty’s government or the tories. that power is sovereignty over the sea bed as opposed to merely controlling the fish in the water above it. any new power must mean a uk referendum. therefore, if this amendment is carried it must be the subject of a uk referendum under mr cameron’s referendum lock. ukip has tabled amendments calling for the repatriation of fishing policy and the reintroduction of the 200 mile limit for fishing in accordance with un law. we have not heard what powers mr cameron wants back. does he want to repatriate fishing or is he happy to keep it in the hands of brussels bureaucrats or, worse, extend the powers of the eu over the uk sea bed 12 nautical miles from our coast without a referendum?
mr president, of course british withdrawal from the eu and the recovery of exclusive use of our waters would solve the problem, but in the mean time any attempt to improve the common fisheries policy must be welcomed. ending the practice of discarding dead and dying fish back into the sea is self-evidently right. the practice must be ended, whether it involves under-sized fish that have been caught accidentally, or less valuable fish that are discarded to make way for more valuable fish, so-called ‘high-grading’. of course, enforcement with regard to the latter practice might be rather difficult. enabling member states to enact their own conservation measures within a 12-nautical-mile zone is clearly desirable, but the member state must be able to enforce that against other member states. the rapporteur’s proposal that fishing concessions should cease to be freely transferable is particularly good. it would stop concessions from being bought and sold, and the concessions would remain the property of each member state. successful policymaking is dependent on accurate supporting information. it has been estimated that stocks of 70% of the species caught in the eu have not been assessed accurately. the report particularly does not fully address the problem of incompatibility between the conservation of fish stocks and the survival of fishing industries. the only solution is for countries that have provided the bulk of the fish stock to be given priority in their own waters.
mr president, i would like, along with everyone else, to pay tribute to the commissioner, to the rapporteur, and indeed to the shadows and everybody on the committee on fisheries who have been working so hard on this report. if you listened to the debate in the chamber today, you would think that tomorrow’s vote in plenary was a bit of a done deal. the voices in support of the report are strong, and it looks as though it is all going to be plain sailing. well, this is simply not the case. we in the chamber now are a self-selected group of interested people. i want to talk to those members of the plenary who are not here in the chamber. i want to say something to them that i hope they will listen to. do not listen to the siren call of the epp amendment for a 10 % allowance on discards. this is being promoted as pragmatic. it is not pragmatic. it is unambitious and it is downright dangerous. stick to the vote in the committee and hold the line. we know that we can do it with discards. we have proven it in the south west of england. millions of us demand the change… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we are only too aware of the failings of the current common fisheries policy. the continued dominance of issues including over-fishing, discarding and depletion of stocks, demonstrate that the eu’s fisheries management has to date proved ineffective. in the light of this, i propose that the commission go beyond making the legislative changes proposed in this report and ultimately fully repatriate fishing policy back to the member states. in the uk we have seen what was once a healthy and buoyant fishing industry more than halved by the eu’s common fisheries policy. fishing fleets have been destroyed, fishing ports left derelict and our coastal waters diminished to little more that a bit part of eu common waters. more than this, the uk provides the eu with 70% of its fishing but we are allowed only 13% by value of the quota species catch. this means that we are giving away to eu interests about gbp 2 billion a year in fish plus the value-added cost of boat building and repair, fish processing employment and ancillary services; in total about gbp 5 billion.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i start by joining with the other group leaders and paying tribute to you and to your brave armed forces for the current operation in mali. your troops, aided by british and other member states’ forces, are risking their lives to protect us, and we owe them a huge debt of gratitude. i think the chamber is united on that point. mr president, thank you for agreeing to hold a debate here in strasbourg today. it is, of course, a beautiful and welcoming city, one that should perhaps be visited by everyone at least once, but maybe not once every month. you label yourself a pro-european, but if you truly were, then you would allow the treaties to be changed so that this parliament can finally decide where and when it sits. a large majority of members in this chamber, from all different nationalities, from all political groups – even including some french members – are now in favour of this reform. i hope that you will support it, and i am sorry that none of the other group leaders had the courage to mention it. mr president, i do not want to concentrate purely on strasbourg today. instead, i want to convey to you a simple message: thank you. thank you for brilliantly demonstrating to the rest of europe exactly what a socialist government looks like in practice – one that gets elected on to put an end to austerity and is then mugged by economic reality into introducing harsh budget cuts. i hope that the british labour party and all of the other socialist parties across europe campaigning on similar themes are watching what actually happens in practice. when the socialists left power in my country, they left a note in the country’s treasury. it said: ‘i am afraid there is no money left’. last week your labour minister admitted that france is bankrupt. let us be clear. things are not in great shape in other countries either, but since you have come to power we have seen how devastating socialism can actually be, even to a country as well-placed and talented as france. when we look at the start of the crisis, it was socialist governments – in spain, in britain, in portugal and in greece – that maxed out the national credit cards, and it is conservative and centre-right parties that are helping to clear up the mess that they created. mr president, you have shown us our socialist future. if we increase taxes to 75%, if we lower the retirement age to 60, and if we have a 35-hour working week, then of course that is electorally attractive. however, it is also devastating to our international competitiveness. ronald reagan used to have a great saying: ‘if it moves, tax it; if it keeps moving, regulate it; and, when it stops moving, subsidise it’. reagan, of course, meant that as a joke, but sadly many of our socialists in this chamber see it as some sort of manifesto. if europe is to thrive then we need to take a new direction. for socialists – and you have said it again today – the single market means harmonised labour rules. it means, as you said, harmonised taxes and harmonised economic policies. for me, the single market means a free forum where we all compete with each other and, in turn, we then become more competitive in the international market. i raise this point because many in this house – and i think you hinted at it in your speech – keep suggesting that david cameron was somehow asking for an unfair competitive advantage in his speech two weeks ago. that is simply not the case. he wants reform for all of europe – a single marketplace where one country can have lower taxes, such as in ireland, where other countries can have more flexible labour rules, such as in the uk, where some countries can have industry-friendly policies such as in germany or the new member states, and yet all still be integral members of the single market. it is time to make the eu about competition once again. after david cameron’s speech, mr president, your foreign minister said that this approach was like joining a football club and wanting to play rugby. now, i like mr fabius; he has been right before. if you remember, he led the french ‘no’ campaign against the european constitution. i think he is right again. in fact, i do not think he realised quite what a good analogy that actually was. this is because, of course, a football pitch is exactly where the game of rugby was first invented. no doubt the person who picked up that ball at the time and ran with it was derided, insulted and shouted at by his fellow players. but now, of course, we know that he invented a game followed by millions, although i suspect its popularity is waning a bit in france after sunday’s result. congratulations to italy. personally, i prefer football. in fact i am proud to be a fan of newcastle united. i am delighted to tell you that this month we have signed five new french players. i do not know whether your new 75% tax rate had anything to do with their enthusiasm to leave france and join newcastle, but if it did, can i say on behalf of all toon fans: ‘merci beaucoup, monsieur le president’. france’s loss is newcastle’s gain. mr president, i want to see a strong france helping to move europe in a new direction. so far, the first few months of your presidency have shown that socialism will deliver neither.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, despite his own views, president hollande is are doing rather a lot for the eurosceptic debate in france. president hollande, the decision to reduce the retirement age, to increase the minimum wage and above all, of course, to introduce the ‘hate tax’ to make sure that all of your successful entrepreneurs – and now footballers – flee france, these all mean that the competitiveness gap between france and germany is getting wider. that is now being reflected in a flight of capital from french banks. and people are beginning to notice that, ultimately, the euro is not just doomed in the mediterranean, but it is going to be impossible for france and germany to stay together inside the same economic and monetary union. so, when your employment minister says the country is bankrupt, what do you do? the old trick of launching a foreign military intervention. your troops go off to mali; and yes, it is very good to see the smiling faces in timbuktu for the moment, but you have done this on behalf of the european union. it is now an eu mission. just two days ago, tony blair said that the european union is not about peace, but about power. i think what he meant is the european union increasingly will be about war because the response to mali, the response to it being an eu mission – and we have heard it all around the the chamber today, the liberals urging us to intervene militarily in syria, support from right and left in this house – is that the eu should intervene militarily. i have to say this: if you really think that taking on fundamentalist radical islam in battle is something that we can somehow succeed in, i suspect we will launch ourselves in the same way we have in afghanistan on a decade of unending, unwinnable misery. i do not want the united kingdom to be part of a militaristic, warlike european union, and that is the speech that i have heard both from you, president hollande, and from most people in this chamber today.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think we have had a very good discussion today. president hollande, i certainly want to thank you for agreeing to have a debate with us. we are aware that it is something you did not have to do as a head of state and certainly something which your predecessor never did, so thank you for that. let me say that if you want to push ahead with your socialist policies in france, then of course i wish you good luck. i don’t think that they will work, but good luck anyway. we will certainly not stand in your way. however, i would make one plea: that you do not allow socialism and militant trade unionism to interfere with the proper functioning of the single market. in particular, i want to raise with you the recent actions by french fishermen in boulogne who have prevented dutch and belgian vessels from landing their catches there. french fishermen have even vandalised dutch and belgian ships. in my own country, the main dover-calais ferry route is regularly blocked by militant fishermen and farmers, with the knock-on effect of traffic jams around the south east of england. so i would ask you to do two things: first of all, tackle these militant unions, restore order in your ports and protect those fishing and trading routes. secondly, do not try to use the single market as a means of harmonising the rest of europe down to your level. because if you do, people will not just be removing their money from france they will be removing it from europe as well.
mr president, i just wanted to send a message, before the president of france and the president of the parliament leave, about the difficulties that we are about to experience from 1 april in actually getting to strasbourg at all, since the french authorities and air france have cancelled all flights from paris charles de gaulle to strasbourg. perhaps this could be taken up with the president before he leaves strasbourg in his private jet.
mr president, reform of the common agricultural policy has been the goal of every successive british government – not only since we joined, but even before we joined. it was something that harold macmillan’s government used to aspire to when we made our first application. yet, by any measure, there has been no significant reform. in absolute terms and in the way in which it works, the common agricultural policy is still run along the essentially étatiste or socialist lines in which it was conceived in 1960. when tony blair was prime minister he gave away a large chunk of the british rebate in return for cap reform. the rebate was accepted and no cap reform was forthcoming. incidentally, when we are now talking about giving away the rest of our rebate, it is worth remembering how grateful all the other countries were on the last occasion that we gave away the rebate. oddly, i cannot remember it myself, but maybe you can help me with that, colleagues. the fact is that we do not have it in our power fundamentally to change the basis on which the eu was set up. the only thing which we do have it in our power to decide is whether we want to be part of it. i have every confidence in the good sense and perception of my countrymen to make the right decision when the time comes.
in writing. − while i fully back the move to add illegal immigration to the commission’s reporting requirements, i cannot support the suggestion that yet more of the taxpayers’ hard-earned money should be spent on these small greek islands. i, therefore, voted against this report and the measures it details.
in writing. − i believe that while we are in the process of reforming the common agricultural policy to set standards across the eu, we also need specific measures to support agriculture in areas which need very particular support, such as the aegean islands. i have often argued that the specific nature of welsh agriculture needs to be taken into account, such as the percentage of upland and less-favoured areas, and i therefore supported these measures, which will aid transport to and from the islands.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal for specific measures in favour of agriculture in the smaller aegean islands. the dispersal of the islands and their position in relation to each other within the archipelago is an obstacle to supply and trade, resulting in greatly increased transport costs. existing transport networks are inadequate and undermined by structural weaknesses (ageing fleets, high fares) resulting in ‘dual insularity’, the smaller islands being supplied from other more central islands. limited size, lack of accessibility both within and without, declining and ageing populations, lack of basic commodities and public services (water, electricity, heating) and geophysical and climatic conditions (rocky soil, scattered farms, drought and high winds) are what set the aegean islands apart.
in writing. − the remoteness and size of some of the smaller aegean islands impose additional constraints and costs in supplying essential agricultural products. this regulation provides for lowering the price of essential agricultural products through the use of special measures for agricultural supply and local production in the aegean islands.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposed new regulation as it will recast regulation no 1405/2006 and bring it into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, particularly as regards the use of delegating and implementing powers.
mr president, there is a world shortage of food and consumers are being hurt by rising prices. i believe we need a market-based system and that farmers should rely less on the taxpayer. this has to include the outermost regions of the union. i cannot accept that this parliament has increased the commission’s budgetary-neutral position by eur 70 million a year. however, if we are to fund farmers in the caribbean and atlantic, let us make sure they are pulling their weight. the french overseas departments have a quota for sugar cane of 432 000 tonnes, yet they produce just over half of this. the result? shortages. the effect? sugar prices in europe are now 80% higher than in the rest of the world. the commission needs to include imports of sugar cane in its strategy to reduce prices. as well as protecting agriculture in the caribbean, we should protect jobs in other sectors and ensure that industry, as well as farmers, can compete.
mr president, i voted against this report because, under the guise of an apparently reasonable set of measures specifically tailored to the outermost regions of the union, we find a number of unacceptable issues coming forward, slipped into the detail as ever. firstly, the issue of finance. the commission rejected a budget increase, but then allocated eur 40 million as a so-called ‘one-off’ payment. this, in my house-keeping would still be an increase, it is still more money, it is still spending that we cannot afford, and we should not be making. secondly, i will not vote for eu aid to the canaries and azores, or indeed anywhere else, to cultivate tobacco, the use of which we campaign against strongly in this house. we spend large amounts of money trying to persuade people not to use the product that we are now apparently going to pay people to produce. it is completely bonkers!
mr president, my constituency is northern ireland. it is right on the atlantic periphery of europe. the farmers that i represent know all too well the problems associated with being a smaller region with difficulties in transport and access to markets. however, i also believe that we must strive to make europe a more competitive region with emphasis on jobs and growth. in northern ireland the agri-food sector has continued to grow, despite a severe restriction in the economy overall. supporting agriculture as a sector is important. supporting farmers is also important. ensuring food security for europe is vital. however, i question the value of measures that are not geared to the sustainable, competitive sector and which have ramifications for the farmers that i represent. on a point that mrs girling makes about tobacco, surely after all the money that we spend on campaigning against tobacco, we should be consistent in this house and ban smoking rooms and smoking booths.
mr president, what is the single best thing that we could do to help poor people in developing countries? it is plainly not aid. we have tried that option, and the countries which have received the largest handouts have been the slowest in their economic and democratic development. it is not debt remission either. the countries that have been the biggest beneficiaries are the quickest to become reindebted. the single best thing we could do is to abolish the common agricultural policy which penalises them twice over: firstly, by closing european markets to what is overwhelmingly their best export product; secondly, by dumping our surpluses uncompetitively on third world markets. here is the best bit: scrapping the common agricultural policy would not cost us a penny. on the contrary, it would make us better off as taxpayers, because we would not be subsidising the production of food for which there is no market. it would also make us better off as consumers because we would not be paying artificially-inflated food bills. in other words, the best way to help poor people in poor countries has the delicious bonus of helping poor people in europe. and rather than do that, we are standing up for the vested interests of the eu machine. shame on us.
in writing. − although i remain completely opposed to tobacco subsidies, in light of the other important agricultural products mentioned in this report (for example livestock, rice, milk and bananas to name but a few) i have decided to vote in favour of it. the report was voted on as a block, there was no option to vote against the paragraphs mentioning tobacco and to vote against the report as a whole could have very damaging consequences. in addition to this justification, i also support the report’s emphasis on regional management; as with all agricultural policy, there can be no one-size-fits-all approach. with current economic and environmental difficulties we must do as much as possible to protect europe’s farmers, this is why i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i object to the uk taxpayer’s money being spent in and on the french overseas departments, madeira, the azores and the canary islands.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the committee report, which puts more emphasis on sustainability, regional self-sufficiency and assessment of trade agreements than the commission proposal did originally. it is vital that we support traditional agricultural activities as is proposed in the report, which also emphasises the sale of local products, increasing domestic production and reducing imports. this is a policy we are trying to develop in wales as it is crucial to growing and strengthening the local and national economy. the report as a whole could have gone much further, but nevertheless i supported it.
in writing. − the british conservative delegation remains clear in its opposition to an eu budget increase; this proposal for a regulation proposes a eur 40 million ‘one-off payment’ to banana producers in the overseas departments of france, the azores, madeira and the canary islands. this ‘one-off payment’ is nothing more than a budget increase, and hence we cannot support this proposed regulation.
in writing. − i broadly welcome this agreement but have concerns about the request for additional financing for the banana sector.
in writing. − i am concerned over an article, proposed during the negotiations, that asks for additional financing for the financial year 2013 for the banana sector in the overseas departments of france, in the azores and madeira (pt) and the canary islands (es). there is no clear justification for this increase. we believe that, before increasing any funds, an impact assessment has to be carried out showing that there is an added value in such action.
in writing. − i voted against this report on the proposal for a regulation as it calls for subsidies to be given to tobacco industries and i strongly oppose this notion.
in writing. − as this parliament’s representative for british overseas territories, i have great sympathy for the eu’s outermost regions in their social and agricultural challenges. removed from the union’s geographical and financial core, farmers in these regions struggle to remain competitive in today’s harsh economy. it is therefore our duty to provide them with assistance when we can, but this proposal is not the way to do so. firstly, it is unacceptable for the eu to provide aid specifically for the cultivation of tobacco. we cannot use cap funding to subsidise the spread of lung cancer and social misery. while these farmers should be rescued from hardship as far as possible, we should not have to choose between two evils. furthermore, if we wish to reduce our budget, a payment of eur 40 million will certainly not help our efforts. it is therefore necessary to sustain the agricultural sector of our outermost regions, whose farmers are full citizens of the eu, but i see no reason why social assistance cannot also be financially and ethically responsible.
mr president, david cameron has said that we need to create a leaner, less bureaucratic union relentlessly focused on helping its member states to compete. we all know how important smes are to the economies of our countries. i was pleased to support this report because it dealt with three important issues for smes. firstly, red tape and bureaucracy, which cripples any small company, as we know. secondly, late payment which is causing problems financially for companies to keep afloat. thirdly, the report recognises the importance of women in smes and how they should be nurtured and encouraged to go forward. we must support smes and we must use tailor-made eu funding programmes to ensure that recovery for our countries’ economies takes place with this asset that we all have.
mr president, i voted in favour of this important file. it lays out a framework for the eu to do more to support smes in gaining access to finance. as liberal shadow for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i welcome the emphasis on gaining access to finance because it is absolutely essential, and the same smes that need less red tape and better access to finance are the ones that will ultimately create the jobs and growth that europe needs to work its way out of the crisis. these businesses particularly need this finance if they are planning business expansion, and it is particularly important now because the banks are providing for less reliable lenders and are hiking up their interest rates, so reliable businesses are having to pay more and more in this respect. this report looks for innovative ways of helping mobilise cash for these businesses, and we must welcome that at this time of crisis.
mr president, the future success of smes and their contribution to job creation over the coming years will very much depend on governments putting in place economic policies which will allow smes to flourish and to develop quality products and services. small traders in particular have been going through an extremely difficult financial situation over the past number of years. the onus is on all of us to do all that we can to alleviate the pressure on such small, local traders. while i supported this report, i would have preferred it to have been more proactive in pushing the banks to invest in the economy. however, it is a step in the right direction. i believe eu funding offers a largely untapped source of potential funding for smes in the north of ireland, be they in derry, antrim, down, armagh, fermanagh or tyrone, and not forgetting of course what are called the ‘border areas’ of monaghan, cavan and donegal.
mr president, i voted for this report because smes account for the majority of european jobs. to my mind, they are the most important issue on the growth agenda. getting the climate right is incredibly important. i welcome the increase in eib funding, which i understand should leverage a total of eur 180 million over the period of three years. lack of access to finance is a crucial limiting factor for entrepreneurs. a good idea, commercial ability, drive, enthusiasm and hard work are completely worthless without capital. they are completely worthless without the access to investment. this is never truer than for young entrepreneurs. we do a lot in this place to try to encourage young entrepreneurs, but the most important thing we can do is to get them money to start their businesses. most of all i would like to say that i regret the amount of talking we do about this. this is yet another own-initiative report. own-initiative reports are mostly becoming an abomination to my mind. they are just talk, talk, talk. let us actually do something.
mr president, if big business forms the backbone of a modern economy, such as the one in my region of london, then small and medium-sized enterprises could be described as its heart. they have suffered the most under the global financial crisis, so i am delighted to support eu growth measures to boost smes and protect them as far as possible from the economic uncertainties and increased red tape of today. we all know the difficulties that small businesses can encounter, particularly when appealing to investors, and so the commission’s efforts to foster competitiveness and an entrepreneurial spirit will be most useful. we also need to enable a regulatory regime that facilitates, rather than hinders, investments. by curtailing late payments, for example, it could bring tangible benefits to the recipients of these funds. this is one area in which the eu can deploy its cohesion policy to promote pro-growth efficiency of investment, reduce the burden of bureaucracy and over-regulation, and allow smes the enhanced lending and assistance that so many of them desperately need in the current economic climate.
mr president, northern ireland is an sme economy: 97% of all business is conducted by smes. these range from the family-run businesses to the faster-growing enterprises. the best way to support jobs and growth in northern ireland is to support smes. i welcome this report, and i welcome the steps set out in this report to improve access to finance. we all have stories of how banks have squeezed smes and, in some cases, made them unviable by not financing them. i also welcome the commitment of 20% of the horizon 2020 budget to smes, and i look forward to research and innovations at our universities which are more linked to commerce and economic growth. can i very quickly mention the regional aid guidelines, which have a real potential to disadvantage smes in northern ireland. we share a land border with the irish republic, which has an aggressively low corporation tax. it is important that these guidelines reflect the situation in which we find ourselves.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it calls for the commission to establish a ‘european guarantee platform’ under the european investment fund which would socialise the debt of private businesses (smes) and ultimately put the taxpayers’ money at risk. i also object to several of the new funding opportunities outlined in the report. for example, it calls on the commission to provide a new legislative framework for issuers of funding to smes – to me, this move is completely unnecessary and would eat up a great deal of money that would be better spent by the uk government in supporting british smes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this very good report on improving access to finance for small businesses. this is an issue of great importance to wales where the economy depends so much on smes. lack of access to finance is a complaint we hear so often now and was one of the issues raised directly with me by a company in wales in recent weeks. this is an own-initiative report and its recommendations will, i hope, be considered seriously by the commission and the council.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution, which highlights the importance of strengthening the local banking system; underlines the responsibility and the functions of banks, ranging from european- to local-scale banks, in terms of investing wisely in the economy and more specifically in smes; notes the differences between member states in the cost of borrowing for smes and in access to financing for smes resulting from the adverse macroeconomic context, which might have negative competitive implications in border areas; points out that, even though smes‘ problems in accessing credit still vary among member states, the results of the october 2011 ecb bank lending survey show a significant overall tightening of credit standards for loans to smes and demonstrate that reducing investments to a minimum can lead to a credit crunch; acknowledges, in addition, that there is a significant demand for micro-credits in the eu.
in writing. − london alone is home to hundreds of thousands of smes, and austerity measures in the uk have made it particularly hard for these companies to obtain credit from banks. this report uses regulation to make smes more visible to investors and markets more attractive and accessible for smes. regulatory changes will keep the right balance between prudential regulation and financing of smes, and between investor protection and tailored measures for smes. it also uses the eu budget to facilitate access to finance for smes and to address the key market failures (i.e. information asymmetries and fragmentation of venture capital market) that limit the growth of smes. i am happy with the inclusion of wording for the protection of health and social standards for employees.
in writing. − i voted to support this measure because it enables the european union to coordinate and streamline elements of its collective policies in the area of financing smes. because i am also a rapporteur on the horizon 2020 project i can see the necessity of combining both structural funds, project funding and leverage of private funding. for this to occur and have an effect on the economy of the european union, innovation must be allowed to flourish in the area of financial instruments. much more has to be done.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it emphasises the need for the protection of health and social standards for employees working for smes.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, note that unemployment in the eu is 10.5% of the working age population. among the young it is averaging 28% across the eu, with nearly 50% in greece and spain. in the uk the overall unemployment rate is 7.7%, with youth unemployment at less than 20%. at the same time britain is seen as unenthusiastic towards the eu. indeed this morning, commenting on david cameron, speakers said that we cannot take the parts we want and opt out of the rest. that is an echo of one of the first comments i heard in the committee on employment and social affairs after election in 2004: ‘we do not want member states to opt out of the working time directive. that will give them an advantage’. but we did opt out – legally – of certain provisions of the wtd, leaving uk employers more free to employ workers. is that why the uk figures are better than the eu average? social aspects and growth improve when people have jobs. it is not therefore a question of policy coordination, but of keeping policy out of employment. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the eu is not doing very well. its economic growth is failing, which is what you are talking about today. the whole idea is falling apart. we are failing, and if we are not, why is it that so many firms are opting out of europe and taking their business abroad, resulting in us having to spend millions of euros on the globalisation adjustment fund to make up for their shortfall?
madam president, i want to speak in support of the schwab report today, which proposes measures to enhance the governance of the single market in order to boost its benefits. it is clear that a comprehensive and coordinated approach by all eu institutions, with strong political leadership, is needed to improve the governance of the single market, so i strongly support calls in the report for a legislative act and the establishment of a single market governance framework. it is fundamental that the importance of the single market in the creation of jobs, competitiveness and growth is fully reflected, rather than focusing on issues such as the incorporation of social issues and workers rights in the single market governance strategy, since these are matters for all member states to organise themselves. i was pleased that amendments calling for member states to establish single market tests and carry out impact assessments on relevant legislation to ensure compliance with the single market principles were adopted, since member states must also play their part in better regulation obligations, but i was also glad that my amendments calling on the commission to assist member states more thoroughly concerning problems with implementation and transposition of legislation were supported. the commission needs to rapidly follow up on the proposals already set out in this single market act and present the proposals from the single market act ii, which will generate the most growth. regarding the single market integration report for 2013, i was glad that my amendment calling for priority areas to be supported by comprehensive data was adopted, since there needs to be evidence to ensure that we focus on and prioritise the correct measures to generate the most benefits. i would like to finish by stressing that the improvement of the single market, with free movement of goods, persons, services and capital between member states, is and should remain the focus of the eu. without a successful single market, the eu delivers – and will mean – very little. the time to deliver is now: the eu must mean business. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question. we are not sure about the validity of what you are stating, frankly, but when it comes to the eu budget and reports that go through this house and the way that we vote, you are quite right that we make major sacrifices in order to push bigger initiatives through. we need to be aware of the consequences when we are going through the procedures in those areas, but we need to focus purely – in this house, in the whole of the european union and in the commission – on delivering real growth and jobs for the people out there. that should be our priority in this house. that should be the priority in all our reports.
madam president, as chair of the internal market and consumer protection committee, i am pleased for the first time to be engaged in this semester debate. i want to thank all of my colleagues on the internal market committee – particularly andreas schwab – for setting out so clearly the importance of the single market economic recovery and growth and what that means for all citizens. we have the responsibility in our committee to try to energise the single market, but also to make it work for consumers, citizens, public authorities and businesses. it is absolutely indispensable that we look at that in conjunction with economic and employment policies. we have to underpin europe’s future growth and competitiveness by making the single market work better. now is the time to be investing political capital into making that work because it underpins all our futures. it is about time that we had the opportunity to be talking about the single market in conjunction with these other policies. i am really indebted to michel barnier, who i know has had to go to a conciliation meeting, for supporting that. in conclusion, may i say that the single market act was a great step forward. i look forward to another initiative on the digital single market later this year, which will show the importance of that to european growth.
madam president, i get the impression that members think that if they use the word ‘growth’ enough, it will somehow magically manifest itself. the reason that growth is unacceptably low is actually quite simple, as anybody from the pacific rim could tell us. the reason it is low is that we are overtaxed, overregulated and over-governed. most members of this house and the commission have never had a job in the commercial sector. this is an achilles’ heel of gargantuan proportions. we have a suicidal energy policy. employment legislation makes it impossible to employ anybody, especially small businesses and particularly young people. there will be no economic growth until we can close down this place, and the commission. this is part of the problem. we are the problem and not the solution. yet perhaps it will close itself down. perhaps, and maybe sooner than we think.
mr president, the year begins with unjustified optimism about growth prospects, but that recedes as the year’s realities begin to emerge. if you persuade countries to share a currency that is over-valued for some of them, if you import manufactured goods from countries of low wages and inhuman conditions and tolerate the transfer of production and investment to emergent economies, you will not get growth, you will get recession. if you import cheap labour from poorer countries, you will not get increased employment of our own nationals, you will increase unemployment. we have unsatisfied needs in our economies and unemployed people who could satisfy them. what is physically possible must be politically and financially possible or the political and financial systems are not fit for purpose.
mr president, i remember reading a book to my daughter some years ago about elephants in africa and remarking that, when i read that same book some 40 years before, the population was three or four times greater. of course we know that elephants are dying in vast numbers, we know that international laws are needed to combat wildlife crime, but we also need to recognise where the demand is coming from. it is coming from china, almost exclusively, to a huge degree from growing wealth in china, people being able to afford ivory, and from a degree of ignorance. i understand that a majority of chinese people actually think that the tusks of elephants re-grow, like fingernails, so they don’t realise what destruction is taking place. my question, really, is to both the commission and the president: what are we doing to link up with african nations, to talk to the chinese about the need for action for information, to combat this crime at its very source? if we are not able to persuade the chinese authorities to take action, then we are going to end up with more elephants in european zoos than out in the wild.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i commend monika hohlmeier, our rapporteur, on her disciplined approach to the budget. i absolutely agree that the eu budget should reflect the experience of the member states, first because we need to reduce the burden of cost on hard-pressed national governments and second, because the people of europe would not understand why we are asking for more money at a time when their own governments are cutting back on basic services. in this house we should be looking for efficiency and cost reductions, and not supporting extravagance. i therefore encourage our rapporteur to press for further savings, and i want to suggest three areas in which she might look. first: administration head-count. let us challenge all eu institutions to achieve a 1% cut in numbers year on year. second, we need to review the remuneration and pension provisions for a number of employees. can i give you an example? newspapers today are carrying a report from germany which states that there are now 4 000 eu officials whose salaries and benefits packages mean that they are earning more than prime minister cameron or chancellor merkel. that cannot be right, nor can the generous level of pension and retirement age dates that those officials enjoy. mr president, it is very possible that many of these individuals are the same eu staff who are intending to go on strike on thursday so as to coincide with the eu budget summit. that gives me a very clear message that it is time that this parliament as a scrutiny body took a very close look at employment in the institutions. and finally, on buildings. since the rapporteur became involved in buildings policy we have achieved big cuts in unnecessary expenditure. please continue that good work, and while you do so i urge you to keep the pressure on the two-seat policy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i can answer the first one easily. the answer is ‘yes’. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – the clarification i have had suggested that it was ‘salary and benefits package’. listen closely: ‘total package, salary and benefits package, exceeded the gbp 140 000 which prime minister cameron earns’. well, perhaps die welt has got it wrong but that is what was claimed.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the multiannual financial framework has not actually been decided so this debate on 2014 budget guidelines appears to be premature. that aside, and given the economic situation of europe, i believe it is now time to perform a cost-benefit analysis in regard to the whole of the eu budget. that cost-benefit analysis should start with all the mini-institutions that have been growing like mushrooms in the last decade. take for example the eeas, the european external action service. what is the benefit that this institution brings to european citizens? baroness ashton has said that it will not replace national embassies. great! so why do we need it? and the committee of the regions, has it actually helped regions develop their economies. no, it does not seem so. if the eu really wanted to help member states and taxpayers, it would simply abandon budget lines that have no added value – but this will not happen. we will only continue to spend our time trying to window-dress little cuts here and there.
mr president, i was the rapporteur for the 2013 other sections budget so i know what a difficult task ms hohlmeier has. she certainly will not be able to please everybody, but i did want to congratulate her on the report she has presented today. the other institutions are very important in our discussions on the budget but like other colleagues i wanted to concentrate today on parliament’s own budget. i think the rapporteur is right to point out that we have made some efforts in the past to make some savings in parliament. we have frozen members’ allowances, we have cut the travel budget by 5%, we have made large savings in interpretation and translation – and i know from comments from some members that a number of them are not happy with the cuts we have made already. i know that we have to achieve a right balance, a balance between making savings and ensuring that parliament runs effectively. therefore i welcome the greater focus in the future on long-term structural savings. these structural savings, i believe, can help us become more effective and, at the same time, perhaps identify savings as well. i know the joint working group which has been set up between the committee on budgets, and the bureau has already been looking, with help from the secretary-general, at possible long-term structural savings. these include: translation and interpretation; working much more closely with other institutions such as the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee; more working on videoconferencing and e-meetings; buildings policy; and the number of this parliament’s working weeks, because we meet for twice as long as many other parliaments including the bundestag. no doubt there will be many other ideas where we can make some savings in the future by looking at our structures. my final point would be that this is a big issue. this is a big issue which will affect the impact this parliament has and the effectiveness of individual members as well, so therefore i believe we should have a much wider debate. i would welcome, perhaps, a discussion in the committee on budgets in the first instance on what possible structural changes and savings we can make in the future.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask my colleague why she does not think the expenditure in this parliament is too great. two years ago the entertainment budget for meps or for parliament went up 80%. do you not think that was a substantial increase? in december, in the courtyard here in strasbourg, we saw extortionate expenditure on television screens and posters that are still there about celebrating the sakharov prize. in that week each member of parliament and each member of staff was given probably five, six or seven pieces of chocolate. do you not think that was unnecessary expenditure?
mr president, i used to go back and tell my constituents that this was the institution that knew no cutbacks. in my first few years as an mep the allowances just went up and up and up and up. we all got a new member of staff for lisbon; the attendance allowance went up from eur 296 to eur 304 euros. i have already mentioned that the entertainment budget went up 82%; everything just went up and up and up. as we go towards 2014 you decided to make some minor cutbacks, forgetting what you paid in the first few years. you ignored reality for far too long and now you are wondering what to do. you are making the poor staff here suffer through no fault of their own on account of your political meddling. what about cutting ms ashton’s eeas? what does it actually do? what about cutting that back? what about the shiny new offices for mr van rompuy and ms cathy ashton? and what about the bigger argument as to whether we should be here in strasbourg? and what about fridays here in strasbourg? there are still 80 to 100 meps that come here on a friday morning and sign in and go home when there is no official business. that is about eur 30 000 month; should that not be cut out for a start?
rapporteur. − mr president, i am deeply proud to once again have been elected to serve as rapporteur on corporate social responsibility and proud, too, to have been able to achieve an unprecedented level of support and consensus in parliament for this report. indeed, i would like to thank raffaele baldassarre and all the colleagues present for their help in achieving this. what are the messages that we are sending to business? first, that responsibility is not separate from the economic crisis but inextricably linked to its causes and integral to europe’s economic recovery. just as companies undertaking csr recognise that reputation has been missing from the balance sheet, confidence is the asset most desperately needed for our economy as a whole and restoring trust in business is essential to achieving it. second, shifting from short-term to long-term thinking is not just a challenge for the banking sector. for all companies, it affects the workforce, suppliers and customers, as well as shareholders. it is the cultural shift our whole economy needs. third, the longest-term challenge that we face, the transition to a low carbon economy, cannot simply be parked, as last year’s forward agreed prediction showed. this is about sustainability, and there will be no sustainable economic recovery without business itself being sustainable. fourthly, business cannot afford to stand by as discontent rises at the social costs of the crisis. in this resolution we make a call to business to act on youth job creation, on the sustainability of pensions and in tackling exploitative labour practices in company supply chains. companies operating abroad have long recognised that csr is part of their social licence to operate. against the backcloth of the anti-globalisation and occupy movements, and growing support for protectionism across the political spectrum, i argue that csr is now central to support for europe’s own social licence to pursue open markets and trade-led growth. so this parliament welcomes the commitments made in the commission’s communication, and i too welcome the contribution by commissioner tajani and his colleagues. we welcome the new definition and its acceptance of the smart mix of both voluntary and regulatory measures agreed in geneva, and now in brussels. i am particularly pleased that eu action on csr is to be firmly rooted within a rapidly evolving architecture. we call on the commission to evaluate and report on implementation of the un’s guiding principles on business and human rights, to formally adhere to the updated oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, and to champion a new convention on corporate accountability within the un itself, building on the powerful argument put by a coalition of investors led by aviva at last year’s un rio+20 summit. finally, we endorse a new emphasis on corporate transparency, building on sustainability reporting by 6 000 companies championed by the global reporting initiative. if the eu proposal that is coming up itself builds on this and is based on reporting integrated into financial accounting and not additional to it, i am confident that it will play a decisive role in prompting the scaling up of responsible business that business itself says it wants. once again mr president, whether it is on corporate reporting or on wider csr strategies, csr must not be portrayed as an expensive add-on. it has to be integral to business strategy and the true cost lies in ignoring it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, corporate social responsibility has been an ongoing topic for some years in the european institutions and member states, as well as within business organisations and civil society. these discussions have intensified in recent years following the financial crisis, which reduced the trust which many citizens had in business and led to a call for greater transparency to restore that trust. the commission’s call for a renewed european strategy on csr comes at the right time. i welcome the commission definition of csr – the responsibility of enterprises for their impact on society. this new definition is easily understandable and moves csr from being seen as an add-on to being a way for organisations to incorporate sustainable and responsible practices into their business strategies. i believe that corporate social responsibility is and should be a voluntary practice, even if in this day and age it has arguably become a business imperative. we must not confuse the respect of law with csr. companies have to follow environmental legislation but they are not required to reduce their carbon footprints. csr is not only the responsibility of businesses: it is important that european institutions and national governments play a role by promoting and monitoring csr practices. this can be achieved for example by developing guidelines, sharing best practice, and raising awareness. it is also important, when considering the impact of enterprises on society, that we work with the many multi-stakeholder csr platforms that already exist. we must ensure the consistency and transparency of information on sustainability provided by businesses, and therefore strongly encourage the use of international standards for this, such as the global reporting initiative. strong corporate social responsibility can have a key role in improving competitiveness and innovation. it can be part of improving the performance of a company and a way to increase public trust in business. one point which should be made clear is that any measures that are considered must not in any way burden small and medium-sized enterprises. ‘think small first’ should be considered.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, corporate social responsibility (csr) is a long-established practice in many countries, and we should welcome and encourage those businesses who acknowledge that they are part of their local community. welcome and encourage, not manipulate and regulate with european law. in my own region of the west midlands we have an excellent example of csr with the very well-regarded cadburys and their bourneville development. they put social responsibility at the heart of their company’s ethos, and this tradition is carried on today in many companies. mr howitt’s report recognises the continuing high levels of business engagement with csr and the importance of reputation to modern business profitability. so we are looking at something that is working well and working voluntarily. so why on earth do we want to destroy this spontaneity and initiative and tie it up with european red tape?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, we should be concerned that growth in the eu is fading and that companies are moving abroad. result? a great increase in the claims under the globalisation adjustment fund to help redundant workers. that must be partly the reason for the massive budget deficit we heard about this morning. did i hear right then? eur 60 billion? that is taxpayers’ money. this report speaks, among other things, of disseminating good practices, improving soft regulation processes, company disclosure of social and environmental information, emphasising the importance of national and subnational policies, and more of the same. it is about time the eu stopped generating the red tape of rules and regulations. in itself that consumes resources, so cut the red tape, reduce the business rate tax burden, and big multinationals might become more responsible, inclined to pay their tax and not avoid it. they could then concentrate on marketing their goods, generating income and retaining the workforce. and we all benefit.
mr president, corporate social responsibility is a policy concept whereby businesses self-regulate in order to operate in an ethical and sustainable manner in order to understand and meet the needs and expectations of all stakeholders. in this report, however, this concept has been transformed into a jumble of slogans and key words seemingly intended to tick all the right boxes without explaining how exactly anything is to be actually achieved. the concept of self-regulation has gone from this report and has seemingly been replaced by vague calls for commission strategies, commission guidelines, even concrete proposals from the commission for the implementation of corporate socially responsible practices. the rapporteur – even if now he wants businesses, enterprises, to be responsible for solving social issues caused by the economic crisis – believes that the economic crisis has shaken employees’ faith in corporations to meet their pension obligations. no, mr howitt, it is the eu and the eurozone crisis that has done that. this report flits from subcontracting to low carbon technology and to gender equality in the blink of an eye. the rapporteur calls for the launch of a new eu initiative on advancing materiality. he wants the eu to back a proposal for a un convention on corporate responsibility. more bureaucracy is the last thing that businesses need at this time. the report refers to short-term thinking in brussels in one breath and with the next it calls on the commission to show leadership. it takes a concept based on self-regulation by wide, diverse and economic actions in 27 member states and seeks to turn it into an eu competence where one size will not fit at all. it reads like a student manifesto, a first-year student manifesto.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am glad that mr grzyb referred to the respect index in poland. the socially responsible investment (sri) sector and indices do have an important role to play, but what i point out is that mainstream investors are changing, and are now drivers for this agenda. i agree with mr lange, ms grèze, ms dăncilă, quoting bangladesh and guatemala and nigeria, that we must never forget the victims of corporate abuse. indeed, in our vote tomorrow, the sensitive issue of access to justice should not be forgotten. as far as ms sinclaire is concerned, talking about supposedly vague guidelines, the guidelines on the ict sector on extractive industries and employment agencies, and indeed on small businesses, brought forward by commissioner tajani and his staff are not vague at all, they are rather helpful. although i agree with mr bicep and others that responsible business must be for all sizes of company, i place on record my agreement with all those who say there must be special protection for small and medium-sized enterprises. no one wants unnecessary administrative burdens. to ms benarab-attou, who says that we should not need two committees to work together, if companies can work with many stakeholders, two committees of this parliament can work together. to ms göncz, who says we should talk about morality: we should, just as mr tajani and mr becker talk about values. we should not be frightened to utter these words. ms bildt says consumer empowerment is important. she is right, but disclosure will empower consumers. i particularly praise the emphasis on increased attention on the social dimension and on transparency from not only the centre-right – ms bastos and mr boulland – but also the centre-left – ms regner, mr steinruck and myself. i am pleased with that consensus. finally, mr murphy talks about one shakespeare play. i think we should be about quantifying csr. i say to you, ‘measure for measure’. ms hirsch asks whether this is the beginning of the end. no; csr is now embedded in the european union and its institutions. it is the end of the beginning.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, this report proposes a regulation to reduce noise from motor vehicles and, like all legislation from this place, it will entail more bureaucracy and cost. for example, the report says that the quality of road surfaces may be the solution to the problem. perhaps, but how much would it cost to alter them? given the current state of member states’ finances, one wonders where they would find the money to carry out this momentous task. this is a regulation. it will have automatic, binding, legal effect in every member state. democratically elected national governments do not have the right to decide whether they want to apply it or not: they have no choice. perhaps control of noise pollution is one of those powers that david cameron wants to renegotiate the return of to the british parliament, among those many thousands of others long ago surrendered to the european union. meanwhile, he must continue to obey his masters in brussels.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the european council which begins tomorrow evening has a very heavy agenda. first and foremost it must reach agreement on the all-important multiannual financial framework or mff. this is essential if the eu is to have the resources and to provide a solid basis on which to plan and deliver the union’s programmes. but there are other important issues on the agenda such as trade, the eu’s relations with our southern mediterranean partners in the context of the arab spring and of course the situation in mali. let me begin with a few words on the mff. the european council will pick up the discussions on the future multiannual financial framework where they left off last november. we made good progress then, but not enough to reach a deal. we must reach agreement this week, and that will mean everyone having to make compromises. a failure would risk undermining the stability of the union because it would introduce considerable and unnecessary uncertainty with regard to future planning. it would set us back in terms of our capacity to do business at a time when we welcome some return in confidence. president van rompuy has been working since november to see where differences can be bridged and compromises made. he will present the adjustments which he considers necessary to reach a deal. he has the full support of the irish presidency in doing so. this takes place of course against the background of unprecedented circumstances. europe has been experiencing one of its severest ever crises. we cannot escape the fact that we are trying to reach agreement on a future budget when every line of expenditure, both at european and at national level, is the subject of intense scrutiny. that is the reality facing the european council. and it is, of course, not just the european council which is concerned. the presidency, as well as the president of the european council, is fully aware of the critical importance of this parliament in these negotiations. it is a view which – contrary to what is sometimes claimed – is fully understood by those sitting around the european council table. this is not just a matter of good institutional cooperation. there are concerns here in this parliament which will have to be reflected in any agreement, if there is to be an agreement at all. we know the importance you attach to a number of areas, some of which are factored into the draft currently on the table. our understanding of the importance of your views is because we have been listening to you. there were regular close contacts with parliament representatives throughout the cyprus presidency, and the irish presidency has continued that practice only this week in the margins of the general affairs council when the tánaiste eamon gilmore and i met with parliament’s mff team on monday, ahead of the meeting of the council. in addition there were contacts on monday at the highest level when president schulz, presidents van rompuy and barroso, and the taoiseach enda kenny also met on monday morning. so no one can claim that we have not been listening. even if, as i think we should all want, the european council reaches an agreement this week, our work of course does not stop there. as presidency of the council we will intensify our work with parliament to try to ensure, in accordance with the treaty, that the final legislation on the mff is something to which parliament is prepared to give its consent. thereafter, we will be far from finished as we will need to continue our cooperation for the timely adoption of the relevant legislative instruments, in line with the procedures enshrined in the treaty. the mff is probably the most important and urgent issue on this week’s agenda, but the european council will also be addressing several other key topics, which i would like to mention briefly. firstly: trade. if the mff is ultimately about delivering jobs and competitiveness, so is trade. so we must promote free, fair and open trade whilst at the same time asserting our interests. we need to work with global partners so that in the round we secure mutual advantage. an ambitious trade agenda can open up the prospect of a 2 % increase in growth and potentially the creation of over two million jobs in the medium term. therein lies the obligation to pursue these opportunities. while we remain committed to the further development of the multilateral trading system, our immediate focus has to be on developing bilateral trade relations. these can – and must – make a positive contribution to the multilateral system. by building on wto rules and by promoting openness, the eu’s bilateral agreements will help pave the way for further progress at the multilateral level. given the need to prioritise those measures which have the potential to provide the most benefit in terms of jobs, the union’s trade relationship with the united states is towards the top of the irish presidency’s agenda. we are eagerly awaiting the final completion of work by the eu-us high level group for jobs and growth, which is due to issue its recommendations shortly. there are strong expectations that we should aim high and that the level of ambition on both sides should be reflected in a recommendation for a comprehensive trade and investment agreement or fta. it remains our firm intention to have a negotiating mandate approved by the council, if possible during the period of our presidency. the european council will also be assessing the momentous events which have taken place in our southern neighbourhood over the last two years. they will be looking at how to enhance eu support for the democratic and economic transition process in the region, and to explore further ways to strengthen the political dialogue with those countries in transition towards democracy. we share so much with our southern mediterranean partners. we must use the full range of tools at our disposal to ensure that we work together to establish an area of shared prosperity, based on the adherence to universal values, such as democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law and gender equality. in order to sustain our commitment to our mediterranean partners, it is important that the high representative and the commission keep relations with our southern neighbourhood under review. the council is expected to be invited to assess the effectiveness of the eu’s policies and instruments in assisting the political and economic transition of the region, and to report back by june 2013. during that time, we will, of course, continue to take account of the views in this house. finally, the european council will take stock of developments in mali, in particular the decisive action taken by malian and african troops, supported by france, to restore the country’s territorial integrity and the authority of the malian state. with regard to the political process, which is vital to finding a long-term solution to the crisis, the adoption of a roadmap for the transition by the malian national assembly is a fundamental and a very encouraging step. it is essential that the roadmap be implemented as quickly as possible. any one of these issues would constitute a heavy agenda for the european council. together they mean that we begin this year with a meeting which is charged with particularly significant responsibilities, both for the eu internally, its prospects for economic growth and stability, as well as its relationship with the wider world.
president of the commission. − mr president, before it was decided to focus this european council meeting on the multiannual financial framework (mff), following the failure to reach agreement in november, it was originally intended to be devoted to two issues of strategic importance to the european union – first, our external trade policy and second, our southern neighbourhood. trade is making a vital contribution to our economic recovery. in 2012, external demand was the main source of growth for the european economy. it contributed almost an extra 1% of eu gdp, with about 30 million jobs in europe depending on our exports. we are by far the world’s largest trading power and we use our weight to shape world trade so as to reap the maximum benefits from globalisation, but if we are to benefit as fully as possible we must pursue a strategic, forward-looking approach to our international trade relations. if we are to achieve this, we must be proactive and ambitious. we must preserve and reinforce the multilateral system that has served europe and the world for 60 years but, as a complement to it, we must also look to deepen our bilateral trade and investment relations. we have concluded many bilateral agreements and are working towards others. to mention a few: we have already implemented a landmark free trade agreement with korea; negotiations with singapore have been completed; and we expect to complete negotiations with canada in the near future, with, we hope, india to follow. we will shortly start negotiations on a free trade agreement with japan and we are looking at the possibility of such an agreement with the united states. i have been exploring this directly with president obama and the united states administration for some time and i am sure that a transatlantic free trade agreement will bring even greater benefits from our single most important economic relationship. these strategic partnerships are vital to our economic future, but realising the opportunities will require a clear vision of our long-term interests, as well as the capacity to manage complex negotiations, and the necessary trade-offs. all this can be done effectively, but it requires the ability to speak with one voice and to engage our partners constructively. of course, while the european union as a whole is doing well in terms of global trade, some member states and regions are doing better than others. we need to address these issues in our economic and structural policies, particularly in the framework of the ongoing reforms for competitiveness. we must also ensure that our commitment to open markets will continue to be underpinned by our capacity to act against anti-competitive trade practices via the appropriate trade instruments. yesterday we spoke with president hollande about the situation in mali. i will not go over that ground today, but i would like to say a few words about our southern neighbourhood because delivering on our commitments to our mediterranean partners remains a top political priority. let me be very clear: our external credibility will largely be judged by our capacity to act with our partners in the region to jointly shape the common neighbourhood. the situation on the ground varies. democracy will not come overnight and the path to achieving it will not be a straight one. the mass movements across the region were about desire for democracy and freedom. we will continue to support these ideals so as to prevent extremist forces hijacking the political transitions that are under way. we will be especially attentive to the observance of fundamental rights, notably the rights of women. directly after the outbreak of the uprisings, the european union adopted a comprehensive and ambitious support package. in the past two years we have mobilised eur 600 million of fresh funding for programmes in the region. we have enlarged the european investment bank mandate and modified that of the ebrd, opening up an additional eur 2 billion in funding. we have proposed an ambitious trade and mobility agenda and concrete sectoral support. however, the political uncertainty has limited our partners’ capacity to benefit from the full potential of what we are offering. tunisia has held elections and approved a new constitution without major turmoil – the president of tunisia will be with you in this house later today to discuss the progress his country has made – but in egypt the process of transition continues to be polarised. in libya there are still security concerns and, of course, we have the extremely dramatic situation in syria. syria remains a stain on the world’s conscience. in response to the humanitarian crisis there, the commission has increased its support by eur 100 million, bringing the total to eur 200 million, but humanitarian aid is not enough. as i have said before, the international community has a responsibility to stop the bloodshed. in the months to come, the commission will seek to deepen our economic relations by launching negotiations for a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with morocco, tunisia, egypt and jordan, and by signing mobility partnerships with morocco, tunisia and jordan. we will also draft a roadmap for the establishment of an eu-southern mediterranean energy community and we will develop projects with the region on transport, environment, water and rural development. nor will we neglect civil society. we will intensify our support and extend measures which directly touch people’s lives, for example by doubling the erasmus mundus and tempus scholarships for the countries in transition among our southern mediterranean partners. this is a joint endeavour that can only be successful if the european institutions – this parliament and the commission, together with its european external action service – work hand in hand with our member states. this is a historic opportunity for democracy and freedom. we can try and fail, but we should not fail to try. the discussions in the european council tomorrow and on friday on the mff mark an important moment for europe, but so too does our debate here in parliament today. the lisbon treaty changed the way the mff is decided, requiring the consent of the european parliament, given by a majority of its competent members. this point – the role of the european parliament – is one which i highlighted at the last european council discussion on the mff and also in my bilateral contacts in the run-up to this week’s meeting. just last monday, at a meeting i organised in brussels and to which i invited ep president schulz, european council president van rompuy and also taoiseach enda kenny, as president-in-office of the council, i made this point in a very clear way. the commission hopes that the heads of state and government will be able to come to a political agreement that will form the basis from which the council can obtain the consent of the european parliament. so today, i appeal to all heads of state and government to bridge their differences and come to brussels in a spirit of compromise and european responsibility, so that this political agreement can be found. further delays will send out a very negative message at this time of fragile economic recovery. the risk is that positions will harden and that the differences will be even more difficult to overcome. that is why we are actively working for an agreement which addresses the needs and priorities of the european union and ensures that the financial means are made available for it to fulfil its legal obligations. we must not forget that the european union budget – despite its relatively small size at around 1% of eu gdp – is the most important instrument at european level for investment, and investment is a vital and integral element of our agenda for growth and competitiveness, notably but not only in the most vulnerable countries and regions. yes, we need stable public finances and, yes, we need deep structural reform for competitiveness, but european investment is also needed, especially in areas where a euro invested at european level adds more value than a euro invested nationally. the crisis is far from over and our mff is also an indispensable part of our response to both the economic and the social crisis. for many of our member states the support they receive from the union budget is essential if they are to have a chance of beating the crisis – in other words, it determines whether those countries will have a real opportunity to invest for growth and jobs. the mff is also an expression of solidarity. there are member states that simply do not have the resources to support their local workers when a company decides to move its plant elsewhere. there are some member states which do not even have the resources to take care of the most deprived. do you want these people and these societies to turn their backs on europe? the same goes for the 25 million young unemployed people in the european union. i want to make an appeal to the heads of state and government not to miss this opportunity of using the european budget to fight youth unemployment. we have a chance to take the right decisions, to offer our young men and women the prospect of a life in dignity. i want us to build on various commission initiatives to fight youth unemployment: for instance, the orientation and reprogramming of the structural funds in eight member states most affected by youth unemployment, and also our proposal for a youth guarantee. we should use the mff to support these and similar measures. last month, i mentioned this idea in the joint meeting with the european parliament and national parliaments. i expressed the hope that member states meeting this week in the european council could support our ambition to identify tangible measures that can be rapidly implemented and will make a difference. a youth employment initiative would be a powerful signal of solidarity and of value added at european level. it is critically important that such an initiative enters into force as soon as possible. the mff is also of vital importance in enabling the european union to remain one of the most competitive regions in the world by implementing europe 2020 which – let us not forget – was agreed by all our member states. for this, we need to provide financial resources for world-class research and innovation, and we need to have in place the most modern infrastructure so as to exploit to the full the potential of our single market. most heads of state and government will naturally be focusing on their national priorities and on what they see as their national envelopes, and i have to tell you that, in my experience, most of the governments have more to say about their national envelopes than about the european perspective. since that is the case, i will fight hard to preserve the european dimension of our budget: for instance, horizon 2020 for research, the connecting europe facility, the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes (cosme), and erasmus for all. of course, i will also underline the need for the social dimension, with appropriate funding not only for the european social fund and the youth employment initiative but also for the globalisation adjustment fund and the programme of aid for the most deprived. for all these reasons we believe it is important to have an mff, but not every agreement is a good agreement. we need a constructive agreement reflecting the commitments that heads of state and government have made in the past to growth and investment at european level, to competitiveness and to implementing our agreed europe 2020 agenda. at the same time, we need to respect the commitments we have made to strong support for cohesion – territorial, social and economic cohesion – and also to the common agricultural policy. last, but certainly not least, for thousands and thousands of people in the poorest parts of the world, the mff, with its development and humanitarian aid funds, is the difference between life and death. moreover, our external relations budget goes a long way to determining the leverage the european union will have in many parts of the world. that is another reason for paying attention to the external relations part of our budget – at least for those who believe that the eu should be present and strong in the world of the 21st century. mr president, honourable members, my position has always been to strike the right balance between ambition and realism: and that is what the original proposal by the commission stands for. i will do all i can to retain a level of ambition in the final agreement. however, it is clear that any agreement between the heads of state and government will, unfortunately, be less than the commission and this parliament would hope for. under these circumstances it is even more vital that the quality of the budget is ensured. to achieve that, the agreement must address a number of concerns on issues such as flexibility, own resources and a robust review mechanism. i am sure these things are very important in view of the required consent of this parliament. flexibility can apply in many different ways. most importantly, we need to have the possibility of moving unspent amounts from one year to the next, and also to have flexibility between the various budget headings. nobody can predict the kind of challenges the european union will be facing in two, three or four years from now, and for which it might need to mobilise funding. moreover, it would be only logical, within a seven-year financial framework, to have a clause in the mff allowing us to take stock at mid-term and to see whether adjustments are necessary. finally, i hope – and i will make a strong case for this at the european council – that the next mff will pave the way for, and launch the process towards, reform of our own resources system. mr president, honourable members, i have set out the very difficult and challenging environment in which we are discussing the next mff. i continue to believe that an agreement is possible. i still hope that, with the spirit of european responsibility, it will be possible to have an mff which responds to the challenges that the european union faces. let us work together for this to happen.
blue-card question. – thank you for taking the question. i just thought that as we are talking about waking up and we are talking about climate change, i would draw it to your attention – you keep missing the point i think – that there is no scientific institution now in the world which does not accept that there has been no significance statistical climate change since 1995. i am just wondering when you are going actually to wake up to that fact?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this debate has a weary familiarity about it. i think we have been here before. i thank ms creighton for coming here, and it is good to hear her contributions, but of course the key player is our old friend herman who has not bothered to turn up himself and actually inform us what is actually really going on, so i cannot help thinking that this debate is essentially fairly pointless today. nevertheless i hope that a deal can be reached on the mff this week. it seems that one thing is now clear – and to this extent i agree with many of the other speakers – once again the eu is going to miss the opportunity to fundamentally reform its spending. it looks like any agreement, if we get one, will be a fudge, a muddle, a botch as usual: a continuation of funding schemes that belong in another century. the continuation of the principle that first we set the budget and then we find ever more imaginative ways to spend taxpayers’ money and to spend that budget. our leaders should, of course, have seized the opportunity to sit down, have a serious discussion about where the eu delivers value, where it spends money badly and where money we all know is being blatantly wasted. the reality is that today’s budget would be remarkably familiar to people like roy jenkins, gaston thorn and commissions of the past. if we had asked those presidents where they thought the eu budget would be spent by 2020, would they honestly say that we would still be spending 40% of it on agriculture? i doubt it. the debate around the eu budget is symptomatic of all the things that need to change in the eu, and we need to stop thinking that only a bigger budget will solve the many problems of europe. instead we need a better budget, which prioritises our challenges at the expense of the enormous amount of fat that can be very easily trimmed from the budget. now many people in this debate this morning have said that this is a growth budget and i suppose it is, provided you are a french cow. that will grow enormously with the european budget and we cannot in all seriousness stand here in strasbourg – this icon of eu profligacy – and say that there is no money that can be saved in the eu budget. yet the issue of strasbourg does not even get raised in the european council! yet again i call on our president to raise it in his speech to eu leaders this thursday, and perhaps with his new best friend, president hollande. of course i know that the costs of coming here and maintaining this building are a drop in the ocean in the context of the total eu budget, but it would do us an enormous amount of credit if we can show that we can really shake off this expensive relic of the past. and that is the crux of the eu’s budget. we are continuing to fund policies that may have made sense in the 20th century, as well as trying to spend money on the problems of the 21st century. if we focus on the problems of today and tomorrow instead, we could freeze the budget and still see significantly better results for our taxpayers. what could be worse than just maintaining the status quo in spending? it would be to leave the eu spending unreformed and then give ourselves new tax-raising powers and own resources. thankfully it looks as though that is not going to happen, and we have seen in france – the country we are in now – what happens when politicians think that the best answer to their problems is more state intervention, more government-funded programmes and more government and state administration. but i fear that whatever is agreed will fail to achieve any kind of meaningful reform. instead we will probably come away with the result that most of heads of government feel that they can sell: most likely with a freeze on payment. that would not be the best outcome, but it would be far better than allowing the kinds of increases that this parliament wants to see without any reform to our spending priorities. now we have heard as usual a lot of vitriol thrown at the council today, not least by joseph daul, who i think, as president hollande reminded us yesterday, seems to forget that it is many of his own prime minsters from the epp group that are pushing for reductions in the eu budget. the matriarch of his own political family, chancellor merkel, is asking for budgetary restraint. i know it is popular in this place and it gets a cheap laugh to have a go at david cameron constantly, but he is not the only head of government who is calling for reductions in the eu budget. this kind of war rhetoric really needs to stop, particularly in a time of crisis when we should be working together with our national governments and not throwing bricks at them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i think the uk has a long and proud tradition of standing behind those many member states which believe that we need fundamental reform of the common agricultural policy. that was the reason for the british rebate being established in the first place, and i think everybody accepts that if there is fundamental reform in the system then of course all member states could do with a reduction. we need to move farming over to a more market-orientated system. that is also the best thing we could do for the third world. beyond giving them aid, giving them more subsidies, the best thing we could do would be to reform or scrap the common agricultural policy and allow them to sell their food products in the european market. do not try and defend the indefensible, mr daul.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the highlight today of this debate was the liberal leader, mr verhofstadt, comparing the seven-year eu economic plan with the soviet union’s five-year economic plan – and it was said without any sense of irony at all, which i thought was delicious. well, as the leaders meet tomorrow to discuss this budget, what a curious position david cameron finds himself in. he made the big speech; he talked about a referendum in the future, and yet he has been criticised at home for making us wait for perhaps up to five years before we can have our say. most people doubt his eurosceptic sincerity, indeed he emphasised in that speech how pro-european union he is, and yet here today he is met with a sort of venomous attack as if he is some terrible wrecker. i would have thought his chances of renegotiating very much look pretty limited, so i feel a bit sorry for him. he is like piggy in the middle, and you all remember from childhood what a frustrating and difficult place that is to be. but he has made the speech, and we are going to have a proper debate in britain about eu membership; but it is a debate that is changing. you see, the budget is not our top line issue. we pay in gbp 53 million a day. whether that goes up to gbp 60 million or not, many of us are saying: why pay in a penny piece? mr barroso’s idea that a pound or a euro spent at european level is worth more than a pound or euro spent at national level – well, perhaps he has invented nuclear money, i have no idea. what perhaps we should recognise is that unemployment is actually being caused by europe’s policies, in particular the mistaken euro project. the debate in britain has changed and now it is about immigration. people in britain are shocked at the change in every single city and market town since we opened the doors to eastern europe in 2004. i have nothing against bulgarians or romanians, but it is unacceptable that we should open our doors to them unconditionally from 1 january next year. if mr cameron does not get a substantial renegotiation on the free movement of peoples then britain will leave this union.
blue-card question. – the british prime minister has put on record that he would like to see cuts, particularly in the 6%, or eur 6 billion, spent annually on administrative costs paying for extremely large salaries: 2 000 members of the commission apparently earn larger salaries than the british prime minister. i would be interested to know how the gue/ngl group can describe cuts as nationalist and wrong, when surely there is room for cuts in the salaries of some of our fat-cat bureaucrats who are earning huge amounts of money. i would like to know why such cuts would be wrong. why is david cameron wrong in demanding some cuts in the administrative budgets of the european union? the 6% that is spent at the moment is far too much. it should come down to 5%.
mr president, i really do have to admit i would love to be a fly on the wall in this friday’s eu budget talks in brussels. i would like to see the discomfort of mr cameron as he walks into the room, the tension in his neck at the thought that he has to confront mr hollande and his colleagues throughout europe. he has put referenda back on the agenda and he is going to have to sit down and fight for the british interest. he says he wants a renegotiation, but president schulz has already told this parliament that renegotiation is not possible. mr verhofstadt told the bbc renegotiation is not possible, so who is going to give? are they going to be shown to be fools, or is mr cameron going to be shown to be a fool? i think mr cameron is trying to pull a houdini act here. he is trying to appease the eurosceptic majority in the uk, while trying to appease the european union. this houdini act is bound to fail and he will be shown to be more like tommy cooper. my constituents tell me they do not want gbp 53 million spent in the eu. that money is better spent at home.
mr president, this debate feels a little like groundhog day. we have heard it discussed so many times. however, i welcome minister creighton’s reassurance in her contribution. the council understands the priorities of the european parliament. i speak for my colleagues when i say that we realise the european budget must reflect the real financial pain that all our citizens are suffering today as a result of the financial crisis across europe. we are prepared to accept a smaller budget, but the quid pro quo must be, firstly, greater flexibility to switch money between headings and roll over underspends at the end of the year. that will allow us to spend a smaller budget more effectively and more efficiently. secondly, a proper mid-term review of the budget in 2017, when hopefully economic times will be improving. there is no national government around europe or around the world that sets a budget, an austerity budget, for seven years. we must have the opportunity to look at it again. therefore, that is our main requirement, along with the prioritisation of spending on jobs and growth. i hope that the council will reflect on that before they come back to negotiate with us.
mr president, so mali is going to be on the agenda. all actions have consequences, some of them unintended as well as those that are planned. those who are disposed to learn from past mistakes will recall that britain’s war against the appalling regime in afghanistan, and our ill-founded war against iraq, resulted in the london bombings by third-generation islamists from a large fifth column in britain. the political leaders of france, britain and the rest will not be thanked by the families of service personnel killed in this conflict or by the families of victims of retaliatory atrocities in europe, which will be the direct result of this perceived incursion into muslim territory. of course the atrocities in europe are facilitated by a large muslim and significant islamist population in the cities of western europe. even those like the opportunists from whom we heard yesterday, who find it expedient to oppose this latest adventure, refuse to see the presence of fifth columns in europe as the threat they undoubtedly are.
mr president, i am sure everyone wants an agreement on the budget, but it has to be a good agreement, a good agreement for citizens, for organisations, and for jobs and growth, not just for finance ministers. i say this because cuts in the overall budget will mean cuts in things like cohesion policy, rural development, research and development – and these are the programmes which we should be investing in as a european union. these are the programmes which will help us achieve jobs and growth. i wanted to give colleagues, the commission and the council, an example of what these cuts will mean. wales, where i come from, benefits hugely from european structural funds. that is why we are perhaps the most pro-european part of the uk. the welsh government has recently done an analysis of what a cut of eur 75 billion in the eu budget will mean. it means that over the next financial period wales will get eur 1 billion less than expected in the first place. therefore, when david cameron says he is defending the interests of the uk, it is not all the uk.
mr president, i wish the council well in its search for agreement on a multiannual financial framework. when tax revenues are hard to predict, spending commitments are hard to make, but i hope that all our heads of state and government will recognise that what is essential is to ring-fence spending for research and innovation to restore competitiveness and to commit to the trans-european networks on transport, power transmission and broadband, which will pave the way back to prosperity. the current presidency can doubtless make some savings as ryanair becomes ireland’s national flag carrier, but i am not sure i would wish that on future presidencies.
in writing. – last september, mr barroso came here and called for a ‘federation of nation states. not a superstate’. he also agreed that such a ‘federation of nation states will ultimately require a new treaty’. however he caveated it by saying, ‘discussions on treaty change must not distract or delay us from doing what can and must be done already today’. in dublin a couple of weeks ago, when asked about the uk government’s plans for an in/out referendum on its membership of the european union, he repeated those words and i quote: ‘what i hope is that debate does not distract us from the very important challenges we have, namely tackling the (economic) crisis’. prime minister david cameron is keen to begin those negotiations on treaty changes so that he can get his referendum – is he as keen?
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu’s customs union resulted in an increase in some tariffs beyond the level to which they had bound themselves at the wto. both countries therefore have the right to compensation. it is important that we respect the position of new eu members, particularly as we wish to see wales as a member state in its own right in the future.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union enlarged its customs union. consequently, the eu was obliged under wto rules to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights in the schedules of any of the acceding members for the purpose of agreeing on a mutually satisfactory compensatory adjustment to offset the increase in bound duties and the resulting meaningful losses. such adjustment is due if the adoption of the eu’s external tariff regime results in an increase in tariff beyond the level for which the acceding country has bound itself at the wto, whilst taking ‘due account of reductions of duties on the same tariff line made by other constituents of the customs union upon its formation’, as required by paragraph 6 of article xxiv. in order to meet the wto requirements, two issues are addressed in the agreements. firstly, the compensation of higher tariffs, for which the instrument most often used is the opening of a country-allocated tariff rate quota or the increasing of existing ones. secondly, the pre-accession erga omnes tariff rate quota of bulgaria and romania also needs to be added to the existing erga omnes tariff rate quota of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this agreement will award appropriate compensation to the usa.
in writing. − i voted against the proposals as they demonstrate the eu dictating to member states what economic policies they should have in place.
in writing. − this uncontroversial report confirms the existing guidelines. it includes improving the quality of education and training systems, increasing the labour market participation of women and men and reducing structural employment. these and other elements are essential if we are to build and strengthen the welsh economy. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution on the employment policies of the member states. it is important for the council to notify parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this report ensures that parliament will be consulted in the event the council decides to substantially amend the issued text on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. − unemployment is an ill that plagues all countries of the eu – but no universal prescription can cure it. while we are all striving for recovery, each member state must follow its own growth path to full employment. a single market does not require a single imposed employment policy. prescriptive guidelines to member states regarding employment and economic policies are an infringement of their independence, and an unnecessary consideration in our efforts to achieve jobs throughout europe. ultimately, it is the individual country which best knows how to address problems within its own labour market. the united kingdom is actively working to reduce unemployment by developing a skilled and relevant workforce based on the demands of its labour market. a unified eu employment policy, by contrast, disregards the need for individualised reforms on a state-by-state basis and instead offers a panacea. it is not that we do not all share the eu’s concerns of reducing structural unemployment and poverty, and promoting job quality, market participation and social inclusion; it is merely that the union’s proposed one size cannot fit all.
madam president, i believe in a single market for medicinal products. in order for this market to function properly, we need a level playing field and greater transparency, and this means that pricing and reimbursement of medicines must be based on objective and verifiable criteria. however, member states have exclusive competence in deciding on the pricing and reimbursement of medicines. therefore, we must ensure that the new directive does not interfere with national competences. i voted for this report because i believe that, unlike the original commission proposal, it offers a good deal for patients. it sets out faster and clearer procedural rules for pricing medicinal products. i hope the commission will use the report as a basis for a new proposal that will ensure the effectiveness of the system.
madam president, 20 years ago there were only 12 member states and the single market was only a few months old. despite all the fundamental changes that have occurred since then, the existing directive regulating the pricing of pharmaceutical products has not once been amended. it is therefore absolutely necessary to update this directive in the interests of patients and health insurance providers. while the transparency directive will encourage greater efficiency, efficiency does not translate automatically into hastiness, which is why i welcome the compromises on time limits. above all this legislation, which i voted for, could offer an exemplary reconciliation of member state competence and single market harmonisation, giving patients faster and more cost-effective access to medicines while ensuring that their prices are fairly administered within the limits of national rules and regulations. let me also put on the record that i am proud that the european medicines agency is based in my london constituency – a rare example of an eu agency which provides good value for money.
madam president, i share the committee’s desire to see vital eu medicinal products reach those who need them most in the fastest possible time. as in other regions, people living in my constituency in northern ireland should have access to the most successful and specialised medicines available. it is therefore necessary to reduce administrative barriers to trade. a balance must be found, however, between making the national procedures that set prices for pharmaceuticals more efficient and ensuring that products are judged solely on how effective they will be in meeting health demands. i support the plans to reduce the time limits for decisions on pricing and reimbursements for generic medicines. i also welcome provisions which would compel decision-making bodies to make public the names of their expert members, as well as the reasons for their judgments.
madam president, one of the most scandalous episodes i have lived through as a member of the european parliament was the banning and restriction of a number of higher-dose vitamin and mineral supplements and herbal remedies by their reclassification as pharmaceutical products. the justification was the precautionary principle, which is one of those ideas that sounds plausible but turns out to be specious. in the 19th century it was widely believed that the noise of a passing train would cause miscarriages in pregnant women. had we applied the precautionary principle we would not have laid a single inch of track, because the rail operators at that time could no more prove that they would not cause miscarriages than the herbalist can prove that her products are not deleterious to health. there is such a thing as ‘benefit of the doubt’. it is not a good business model to go around poisoning your customers and opening yourself to massive liabilities. of course the real reason that these restrictions were brought in was because a handful of massive pharmaceutical corporations which could easily afford the compliance costs saw it as an opportunity to put their smaller competitors out of business, which is exactly what has happened. once again, we see that consumers, taxpayers and entrepreneurs are disadvantaged in favour of the handful of corporate interests which are the real beneficiaries of this system.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i am wholly opposed to the eu regulating our medicine, and in particular the pricing of our medicine, in the uk.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on this report. the current directive on the pricing of medicines reflects the market conditions of twenty years ago. however, these conditions have changed with the rise of generic medicines on the one hand and of expensive innovative medicines on the other hand. generic products are on average 40% cheaper than the branded medicines once they have been available for two years. although the report recognises these problems, it does not go far enough and in abstaining i wanted to flag these problems. it is important that we address the situation correctly. in wales prescriptions are free to patients but speeding up the availability of generic medicines could save substantial sums for the nhs.
in writing. − i welcome this report and the proposed 60-day time limit to decide on the pricing and reimbursement of generic medicines, in order to speed up their availability and save money for patients and social security systems. decisions concerning new medicines will have to respect the current deadline of 180 days. according to the european commission, generic products are on average 40% cheaper than the original branded medicines, once they have been available for two years. an enquiry showed that companies use various means to extend the period when they can market their medicines exclusively, without competition from generics.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this report proposes more transparency in regulatory measures in pricing medical products used by humans.
madam president, it is rare that i feel so pleased about a vote in this parliament, but the abhorrent system whereby perfectly edible food was thrown back into the seas because of the eu brussels-set fishing quota has got to end, and today we have moved in the right direction. in my region i have seen packets of cod labelled ‘local’ in lowestoft which has actually been caught by vast trawlers in seas off the coast of russia. in the meantime my local fishermen in small boats using lines, not nets, with no discards – they are sustainable fishermen – are not allowed to fish. so bringing back the decision-making to our local regional panels is absolutely key. this has started to turn the tide for the fish in our sea and for those of us who want to be able to eat our fish and chips for many more years to come.
madam president, the vast billingsgate market, for example, has a turnover of gbp 200 million a year. we need to put the management back into fishing locally. a centralised system managed by brussels has lost the confidence of the fishermen; it has also lost the confidence of consumers as they express their outrage at perfectly good fish being dumped overboard because of rigid quotas. conservative meps have led the calls for this disgraceful practice to end, and i am pleased that this report will finally put a stop to one million tonnes of healthy fish being discarded each year. we need a common fisheries policy which will allow fish stocks to grow. we need to protect our resources for the future.
madam president, i would just like to say that i was delighted to vote for this report and it is, indeed, not often that one can say that. the reason i am delighted is because what it has proven above all to me – we can all talk about the fishing facts and the issues around discards, all of which i am very pleased with – but what it has proven most of all is the power of the people of europe. most particularly, i would like to pay tribute to those people in the united kingdom who have worked tirelessly to bring this whole issue up to the top of the agenda. in these days when politics is full of very difficult economic choices that we all have to make, and we have very difficult foreign affairs issues going on all around the world, it is a huge achievement to have ensured that the issue around fish and the environmental sustainability of our seas has remained at the top of the agenda. i would like to use this opportunity to congratulate all of those people.
madam president, it scarcely needs to be pointed out that the radical change to the common fisheries policy is long overdue. for years the sight of british fishermen being compelled to throw discards back into the sea – something like one million tonnes of these dead fish yearly, and they are perfectly edible fish – demonstrated an unfeeling absurdity in eu policy and fomented deep domestic resentment in the uk about the over-extension of european union power. at the same time, overfishing has gravely threatened the future of our fish stocks, as well as the future nutrition of my london constituents, many of whom depend on fish protein and omega 3 to keep them healthy. this applies particularly to children, who eat fish fingers as a major source of daily protein. therefore, with the exception of a few amendments, this report is hugely welcome to our group. we need to create both a sustainable fishing industry and a sustainable marine ecosystem for the benefit of the environment, consumers and, not least, small-scale fishermen who have suffered great hardship under the common fisheries policy and deserve to be helped – and that is the aim of these reforms.
madam president, i wish to acknowledge the hard work put in by ms rodust and many other colleagues in the fisheries committee in getting this report to this stage. however, i want also to express a real desire, as this reform process now enters into a detailed negotiation phase between the eu institutions, that we will secure meaningful changes on many of the issues that have been central to the process: mainly discards and the issue of regionalisation. all of which i voted for within the amendments. i am aware that the council still have to settle their position on this issue, particularly the issue of discards. i wish that we could now move forward speedily into the negotiation phase during the irish presidency. while i fully agree that a lot of work has been done to raise all of these issues up the political agenda, regretfully i have to inform the house that i find myself with no alternative but to abstain from the vote on the overall package. this is the fourth cfp reform process since the united kingdom joined the then eec, and we still have to wait for positive change for the united kingdom’s fishermen. i hope that when i look back that there will be change, and i am waiting to see the outcome of the negotiation process.
madam president, we are, of course, talking here about reform of the common fisheries policy, but many people with whom i speak think of it as a communist fisheries policy: a centrally planned regime where we decide who catches what and when they can catch it, rather than leaving it to the market. we ought to look further afield, to places like new zealand and iceland, for example, where they have created property-rights-based systems with tradable rights that can be either handed down to future generations or sold to others – and that incentivises fishermen to sustain stocks. why, indeed, would you want to deplete the stocks if you knew that you could sell on those rights or hand them down? so we can tinker as much as we like, and i welcome much of the tinkering that we have done, especially in relation to discards, but surely we should be looking at the overall policy. it is time to abolish the common fisheries policy and to move towards a market-based solution.
madam president, i welcome the limited reforms passed today. all credit should go to hugh fearnley-whittingstall for his sterling efforts on this issue, and also to the ecr group. i fear, however, that this is still rather like spraying perfume on a long-dead fish: the bad odour lingers. the common fisheries policy (cfp) has been a disaster. not only has it failed to secure fish stocks, but it has also failed to help the employment situation in fishing, around the uk and around europe. the fishing community in the east of england has been devastated by the cfp. and the issue of discards in particular, the fact that good, perfectly edible fish – up to 90% of them in some areas – are dumped back in the sea, is a complete disgrace. given that norway and iceland have not had a policy of discards, and call such a policy criminal, why has it taken the eu so long to follow them? provisions such as amendment 119, which i voted against today, seeking to allow discards, are still a disgrace. the problem continues.
in writing. − i abstained from voting as without the policy amendments suggested by my party – all of which were, unfortunately, defeated – i do not believe the policy is either reliable or effective.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote in favour of this report which sees the culmination of years of work and lobbying and represents an important step on the road to cfp reform. this reform is vital for coastal communities in wales as well as our fishing industry. sustainability has always been central to the aim of developing and growing our fish and shellfish industry and in particular enabling more locally sourced produce to be used. i am pleased too that we could see an end to overfishing and the senseless practise of discards which so many constituents have contacted me about. i hope that the substantial majority in parliament for this vote will enable an agreement to be reached in the council in the very near future so that the reforms can be put in place.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report as i believe it will help to create a viable future for our fisheries. it contains practical provisions which set out a positive framework for further negotiations on common fisheries policy. it is critical that cfp is reformed so that it is ends overfishing. we need more sustainable practices so that there will be fish in the sea for years to come. i am pleased that the fraga amendment was defeated. i look forward to the abolition of discards which have blighted europe’s fisheries for so long.
in writing. − i welcome this vote for a major reform of the eu’s common fisheries policy (cfp) which aims to cut fishing to sustainable stock levels, end dumping at sea and base long-term planning on sound scientific data.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this report is the key piece of legislation for cfp reform. it includes important points such as a legal requirement to stop overfishing and a discard ban that will make sure that all catches are recorded. the reform of the cfp is crucial for sustainable fishing and a sustainable marine environment.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly support a significant reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp), which aims to end overfishing and to promote sustainable practices. measures must be put in place to stop overfishing – figures show that around 80% of mediterranean stocks and 47% of atlantic ones are overfished. i support the introduction of a discard ban – discards currently account for almost a quarter of all catches and i believe the parliament is right to call for this practice to be phased out, starting in 2014. furthermore, i welcome measures to make fishing more sustainable and agree that fishermen should respect a ‘maximum sustainable yield’. this should hopefully lead to stocks recovering by 2020, and after that point we need to make sure they remain sustainable. finally, the recovery of fish stocks will enable millions more tonnes of fish to be caught and could create up to 37 000 new jobs in the industry.
in writing. − this vote represented the first time that parliament has had an equal say with the european council on the common fisheries policy (cfp). along with my labour colleagues, i was pleased to have a chance to support the introduction of far-reaching reforms to help preserve european fish stocks, and the fishing industry, for future generations. the reforms called for an end to the hugely wasteful practice of discarding fish back into the ocean to keep within quota limits and also introduce a legal requirement to end overfishing by obliging fisheries ministers to set sustainable quotas which respect the maximum sustainable yields (msy) for each species. the reforms will also allow day-to-day management of fisheries to be done at a regional level, by people who know the local area, and will allow member states to award larger quotas to fleets that practise sustainable fishing methods – helping our small-scale fishermen.
madam president, i am pleased that level heads have prevailed and a sensible schedule for reducing sound levels has been adopted. noise pollution is a serious issue which can lead to hearing damage, sleep disturbance and even cardiovascular disease. i believe it is in our interests to reduce sound levels of vehicles. however, we need to ensure that we do not cut limits too fast and too far. a gradual reduction of over seven years is a sensible approach which will both improve the quality of life for our citizens while ensuring the car industry has sufficient time to make the necessary changes. i also voted for the amendments to include safeguards for the blind and partially sighted. while cars are too noisy and can be dangerous, cars that are too quiet can be equally dangerous. introducing a sound generator on all quiet hybrid and electric cars can prevent thousands of collisions and protect vulnerable road users.
madam president, i have long argued that we need to make sure that our smaller companies are exempted from european legislation. a few months ago i went to visit a company called radical cars. it is a fantastic flagship for the single market. they were the first company to get single-type approval, which means that, instead of getting their new car adopted in 27 countries, they just do the paperwork once. but then this noise directive arrives, and a bit of legislation which is meant to deal with golfs, fiestas and renault clios is suddenly imposed on this little tiny company which sells 100 cars, not thousands or tens of thousands, every year. suddenly their entire business model is under threat. i am so glad that the amendment to help these smaller cars went through today. but it went through with only 15 votes, and we have left them with months of uncertainty. so colleagues, please, when we ask to exempt small businesses from eu legislation, let us be serious about this.
madam president, i was very happy to support this report, particularly as i recognise that the increase in noise pollution that we are all suffering – particularly those who live in urban areas or near busy roads – is a genuine scourge and a real danger to health. so i am delighted that we are taking action to reduce vehicle noise, but we must recognise that this is only one small part of the issue of vehicle noise. we also have issues with tyres, with road surface levels and with many of the parts of the road changes that are supposed to be for road safety, but actually mean that cars have to slow down and speed up. we need to look at all of those issues concerning vehicle noise in the round. i would particularly like to welcome the introduction of the acoustic vehicle alerting system (avas) that we voted for. it is a vehicle- and noise-alert system for people who are visually impaired, for children and for cyclists. it is very important for these groups to be able to use their sense of hearing to find out what else is on the road with them. so i think we can go forward with this report and develop something meaningful.
mr president, anyone who has visited my region of london can attest to the fact that the capital city is plagued by noise pollution. my constituents and i would certainly appreciate reduced noise levels in the city, but londoners also have a love of motor sports and luxury vehicles and many are connected to the uk’s substantial auto industry. ultimately they would not be willing to trade economic growth for slightly quieter streets. the strict guidelines of annex 3 force this ultimatum. while it is important to address the issue of environmental noise caused by motor vehicles, we must remember to do so in a pragmatic and balanced way. new regulations regarding the sound level of motor vehicles must be reasonable and have a reasonable impact on the industry. in these trying economic times we cannot afford to sacrifice jobs or revenue. any new noise limits introduced must not adversely affect employment or productivity in britain or its auto industry, or the greater european sector for that matter. so i also support some minimum noise levels being mandatory for electric vehicles to protect the blind and other vulnerable groups, but overall this package is a mixed one.
madam president, i firmly believe that the noise produced by cars and lorries should be at levels that are generally consistent with public health. however, as vehicles get quieter it goes without saying that they become ever more dangerous for those individuals who are blind or partially sighted. i find it deplorable that the commission proposal would substantially reduce the permissible noise limit values for motor vehicles without making acoustic vehicle alerting systems compulsory in electric or hybrid cars. these systems alert vulnerable road users to the presence of oncoming vehicles, thus ensuring their safety. their omission therefore threatens the capacity of blind and partially sighted people to go about their everyday lives in the knowledge that their safety is not in jeopardy when they use our roads. i find it ironic that, despite the abundance of unnecessary red tape already placed on manufacturing businesses by the eu, the provision which is most urgently needed is absent in these proposals. i therefore supported amendment 66, which would make acoustic vehicle alerting systems mandatory for quiet vehicles.
madam president, i welcomed this positive vote. the reason i wanted to give a short explanation is because of the importance of this issue for the motor manufacturing industry in the united kingdom, and particularly in the north-west of england. of course we should all continue to strive to mitigate further noise from vehicles and i think that goes without saying. however, we could have been in a position where we would have had unrealistic and arbitrary rules which would have restricted and perhaps put out of business our manufacturers of these sports cars. these manufacturers make a huge impact in the uk and – as mentioned – particularly in the north-west of england, employing thousands of constituents in highly skilled jobs and creating top-quality vehicles with advanced engineering and highly intelligent technology. so the implications of the vote going the wrong way would have been pretty catastrophic. i would just finally like to say to the commission that they should think very carefully when putting forward their draft regulations and directives on issues such as this and they should think through the impact when votes could go the wrong way, when we have an agenda for growth.
in writing. − whilst there is no doubt that noise pollution is a serious issue for the environment across the eu, it is essential that when implementing this regulation, we do not forget the impact it could have on vulnerable sections of society. i voted in favour of the amendment making avas (acoustic vehicle alerting system) mandatory for manufacturers of quiet vehicles. blind and partially sighted people are particularly reliant on audible clues to judge when it is safe to cross the road. they have the right to independent mobility, a right which would be worryingly jeopardised if mandatory avas were not adopted. as was the case with seatbelt legislation – road safety measures do not work if they are voluntary. many concerned citizens have contacted me to ask that i support mandatory avas and i have done so.
in writing. − this is a flawed and poorly thought-out report that falls significantly short in its attempt to outline comprehensive and effective environmental noise reduction measures. it completely overlooks the issue of traffic volume which ultimately determines road noise-pollution levels. instead, it concentrates on individual micro-elements, the manipulation of which is highly unlikely to produce the 25 % reduction in traffic noise levels outlined. the report also shows no regard for the cost to the taxpayer. it seems to suggest that it is possible to simply replace existing roads, once again drawing on taxpayers’ seemingly bottomless resources to do so.
in writing. − i support the aim of the proposed regulation of reducing environmental noise by lowering the noise limit values and by introducing a new and refined test method for measuring noise emissions to lower noise pollution from cars in general. i also voted to make the avas system compulsory for silent vehicles to protect the visually impaired, children and cyclists. in addition i voted for plenary amendments to annex iii which give much more realistic noise limit values for the sports car industry over the coming years. this will prevent a regulatory burden that would have been impossible to fulfil for small-volume car manufacturers, potentially costing thousands of highly-skilled manufacturing jobs in britain.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that this proposal meets concerns that quiet electric and hybrid car engines can pose a threat to pedestrians and that it wants compulsory requirements in future to add sound to these vehicles.
in writing. − whilst i am hesitant to support any new eu legislation, in this case the safety of the visually impaired, children, and others is paramount. i would, however, prefer this to be a member state competence.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i believe it should contain stricter rules on noise level reductions and the text should not be as watered down.
in writing. − excessive noise pollution is damaging to public health, which is why i voted in favour of a new legislation that will tighten up current regulations and ensure that eu citizens are better protected from the harmful effects of loud vehicles. around half of those living in large towns and cities are exposed to unacceptably high levels of noise pollution, contributing to severe sleep deprivation and stress, and also linked to 250 000 heart attacks and 50 000 early deaths annually across the eu, therefore i welcome these proposals to reduce existing decibel limits. furthermore, the report also proposes manufacturers of electric cars be required by law to add sound to their quiet electric and hybrid engines, a recommendation i fully support.
in writing. − the commission’s proposed regulation aims to reduce noise pollution from traffic, which has a severely detrimental effect on public health. problems such as anxiety, tinnitus, sleep disturbance, psychological problems and cardiovascular diseases are all linked to excessive road noise and it is estimated that 70 million people across the eu are exposed to road noise levels that can have an adverse effect on their health. by lowering the maximum permissible noise level for motor vehicles, these proposals will have the equivalent noise-reduction effect of halving the level of traffic. i understand concerns regarding the impact of the legislation on the car industry, and in committee i supported an amendment to give the industry more time in which to meet the targets. nevertheless, the european commission’s impact assessment of the proposed regulation found that the benefits for society as a whole would be more than 20 times higher than the costs for industry. there are also concerns about silent electric or hybrid vehicles and their safety implications for visually-impaired people. for this reason i also supported an amendment that would make it mandatory for electric and hybrid vehicles to be fitted with artificial sound systems.
in writing. − the combined budget for these three funds between 2008 and 2013 was eur 2.131 billion. the commission has proposed increasing co-financing rates by 70 %; this will see eu taxpayers having to increase their contribution by 40 %, the equivalent of around eur 852 billion. the rationale seems to be that some countries are having austerity problems and must be given help to keep these schemes going – they are essentially being bailed out by the back door.
in writing. − i voted for this report to increase the co-financing rate of the external borders fund, the european refugee fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals. these funds are essential to ensure that provisions exist relating to financial management for member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability. there is excellent work being done in wales by organisations working with refugees and i would not want to see this kind of work undermined in any member state because of financial difficulties. furthermore, i would not want the excellent work done by ngos, in particular, in wales or elsewhere to be threatened because of financial difficulties.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. the impact of the economic and financial crisis on public finances has been severe in a number of member states. while most member states have had to take far-reaching measures to bring down debt levels and decrease budget deficits in order to bring public finances back to a sustainable path, some countries have been affected to the extent that they have had recourse to the financial support mechanisms of the eu. as a consequence of their great economic difficulties, these member states have encountered problems in fulfilling the co-financing requirements associated with eu funding. these difficulties are evident also with regard to funds within the framework of the general programme ‘solidarity and management of migration flows’.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this report may potentially amend decision no 573/2007/ec, decision no 575/2007/ec and council decision 2007/435/ec and this may in turn provide additional financial resources to the member states and will make it easier to continue implementing the programmes on the ground.
in writing. − in the past year, the european economic crisis has taken many casualties and eu budget spending and the 2014-20 mff must also be cut accordingly. as the eu continues to struggle through this crisis, it is important that we do our best to limit the collateral damage. for this reason, i can support reasonable temporary co-financing to maintain essential eu-funded programmes dealing with asylum and migration. we do not need the eurozone currency crisis to lead to an additional migration crisis if these programmes are totally cancelled. therefore the member states that desperately need assistance to maintain these programmes should be given existing rates of co-financing rates for the current year. the importance of a selection of the listed programmes validates this provisional, budget-neutral proposal.
in writing. − the current spend on the external borders fund is eur 1.882 billion. the commission has proposed increasing co-financing rates by 70 %; this will see eu taxpayers having to increase their contribution by 40 %, the equivalent of around eur 728 billion. i disagree with this proposal and, indeed, the existence of the fund altogether as i believe that the management of borders is an internal matter that should be dealt with by the member states. in the uk, it is essential that the uk’s borders are kept locked and it is the uk government that should have control over this.
in writing. − functioning management of migration flows is of great importance for the european union as a whole. the inability of one member state to ensure efficient management of migration flows does not only affect the country in question; it has also an impact on many other member states. it is therefore in the interests of all member states that the commitments made with regards to migration do not suffer from the economic difficulties in some member states. there are a number of projects in the making that require increased co-financing rates in order to be implemented. this applies to, for example, the renovation of detention centres in poor condition and improvements in technical equipment needed for efficient border management. it is essential that member states with significant economic challenges still can handle the tasks related to the management of migration flows.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this proposal is here to assist in the smooth implementation of programmes adopted under funds established as part of the general programme on ‘solidarity and management of migration flows’ and is of particular importance as a means of injecting funds into the economy.
madam president, i was happy to vote for mr gallagher’s report on technical conservation measures, since aspects of this report are very important for sustainable fish stocks and for the measures which the industry might use to ensure this goal. however, it is deeply regrettable that despite delaying this report as a negotiating tool on the issue of long-term management plans, there has still not even begun to be an end to a resolution on the issue. we have just voted on parliament’s position on the reform of the common fisheries policy. central to that reform is the issue of long-term management plans. these plans are essential to preserving fish stocks and the future sustainability of the industry, yet we find ourselves in a dispute between three european institutions over the issue of competence. the most frustrating aspect of this is that all sides seem content for this to go to court, potentially delaying reform and its implementation, and consigning the industry to further years of haggling over yearly quotas in december. madam president, this is an abject failure. mr cameron should make fisheries policy a key subject of british negotiation.
in writing. − the uk should be in charge of its own waters and fishing stocks and, if this were the case, i firmly believe that a british national conservation plan would be implemented to ensure that no overfishing took place.
in writing. − i am delighted that the vote on the gallagher report has finally taken place. the council’s refusal to engage fully with parliament has been regrettable and it is time for them to accept that the lisbon treaty has given this house legislative competence. nevertheless, whilst interinstitutional issues may seem important to us, we should never lose sight of the people we have been elected to represent. my job is to represent the fishing industry in wales and the vital role it plays in the economy. the ministers in the council must accept this too – and in future must work to protect the jobs which are so vital to our coastal communities.
in writing. − the technical conservation measures for fishery resources are among the key elements of a regionalised approach to fisheries management and come on top of the annual/ biannual decisions on catch possibilities. technical measures lay down the rules on fishing zones and fishing gear used as opposed to quantities (fishing effort) and/or catches (tacs and quotas) authorised. technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that how and where fishing activity is carried out it is done so in a sustainable manner. the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and have thus a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
in writing. − i voted in favour as fisheries should be conserved in order to maintain sustainable fish stocks and a sustainable marine environment.
madam president, i make this explanation on behalf of my group, the ecr group. this motion for a resolution addresses the issue of violence against women and includes a wide range of actions which constitute violent actions against women: sexual abuse, rape, domestic violence, trafficking of women and girls, violence against women in conflict situations, genital mutilation and forced marriages. the motion for a resolution strongly condemns all violence against women and girls and strongly states that member states and the eu as a whole must do more in this area. to these ends, the resolution calls for a directive laying down minimum standards. the ecr group opposes the development of any further legal instruments in this area. we were also reassured by commissioner reding’s comments regarding the adopted victims package. we already have legislation in place and now member states must implement that directive. the commissioner does not plan to include any more legislation in this area. the ecr believes, therefore, that the issues raised in the resolution are of value and importance to all women across the european union and hence supports the resolution overall. our message must be zero tolerance in this area.
madam president, in the united kingdom today, one in four women will experience domestic abuse from the age of 16 years, often with years of psychological abuse. over 300 000 women were sexually assaulted in the last year alone. in response to these alarming figures, the uk government has launched its own action plan to tackle all aspects of violence against women and children. the plan contains one hundred actions in the area of prevention, provision of services and partnership working, as well as justice outcomes and reducing the risk to victims. this plan should not be limited to the united kingdom, but we should all recognise that violence against women and girls occurs in all countries and is an issue which crosses all borders. it is therefore vital that, in order to achieve our collective goals, we are able to implement effective and coordinated action. the message from this house should be clear: no level of violence against women and girls is acceptable in today’s society, here in the european union or anywhere else in the world.
madam president, i doubt there is a single decent-minded politician who would not welcome efforts to combat the scourge of violence against women and girls. despite the progress of the last fifty years it is shocking that violence against women continues to be perpetrated in every country in the world, including even children, such as the recent case in pakistan. the statistics are sobering. up to 70% of women worldwide are thought to experience domestic violence in their lifetime. even in the united kingdom an estimated nine women are raped every hour. i therefore wholeheartedly endorse the un’s efforts to tackle this problem everywhere. the only problem is one of eu universality. while the eu must do all it can, the specific causes, cultures and circumstances of violence against women and girls differ greatly across the union. an over-prescriptive eu directive i would oppose, as it would be a blunt instrument to tackle a problem which is best dealt with by the individual member states in cooperation with the european union. but deal with this issue we must.
in writing. − i am absolutely against violence, especially against women and girls, and staunchly advocate the view that it is completely unnecessary and unacceptable. unfortunately, i have to abstain from voting as i do not agree that there is a need for a new eu law on this and cannot accept this level of interference into the foreign affairs of member states which, in line with the vienna convention, should be exempt from external pressures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on an issue on which i have campaigned for many years. the european external action service must ensure that the human rights of all women are respected and that all member states have signed the council of europe convention on preventing violence against women. the uk is one of the member states that have so far failed to do so, despite a huge campaign by the soroptimists, women’s aid and others. i spoke at a highly successful conference in the temple of peace in cardiff on this very issue several years ago. assembly members there pledged their support for the campaign. i hope that this vote will encourage the welsh government to put pressure on the uk to sign as soon as possible.
in writing. − i was pleased to support this resolution. i think that violence against women, of any kind, is an abomination that all member states should work to eliminate. i did vote against the paragraph calling for an eu directive. implementation should remain in the hands of the member states. we must resist the temptation to believe that ‘more europe’ is the answer to every problem. a directive would do nothing to tackle the ongoing scourge of gender-based violence. of course, resolutions such as this are no substitute for concrete action to tackle the underlying problems that give rise to acts such as genital mutilation, ‘honour’ crimes, and forced marriage. member states should be encouraged to address those important issues.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which calls on the eu to support the launch of a global advocacy campaign for the prevention of violence against women and girls and gender-based violence, in order to take further steps to make our communities and countries safe and fully respect the human rights of women and girls worldwide. parliament believes this campaign should build on existing partnerships between states and other relevant actors, including civil society and women’s organisations.
in writing. − i voted in favour as i strongly believe that women and girls should live lives without fear of being abused by anyone, be it a family member or a complete stranger.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the kurdish-turkish conflict is now the only major insurgency taking place within a member or candidate state of the european union. after almost 30 years of tragic bloodshed, the deaths of many thousands of civilians as well as combatants and the displacement of an estimated three million kurds, actions must now be taken to ensure that no more lives are lost and that all the people in turkey, regardless of their culture or ethnicity, are accorded full human rights enshrined in law. although i support turkey’s development and welcome it as an economic and social partner, we cannot deny that the country’s human rights record has been questionable over the years, particularly with regard to minorities. the kurdish population of turkey has been culturally and institutionally alienated. although the turkish state has introduced some positive measures in recent years, the kurdish language remains subject to restrictions as a language of instruction in schools, and organisations promoting the kurdish minority have also been heavily discouraged. there are also worrying allegations that turkey has relocated kurds to different parts of the country in order to dilute the culture and the perceived military threat. as a modern democracy, turkey must now permit the kurds to exercise their full cultural and linguistic identity within the existing borders of the turkish state. certainly my group accepts that encouraging a separate kurdish state would pose a very real risk of destabilising the region further, drawing in iraq, syria and iran and fermenting further conflict. the kurdish population also has a part to play. the kurdish paramilitary organisation, pkk, must now fully renounce all violence and engage in meaningful, peaceful talks with turkey without preconditions. in this i welcome the moves to involve abdullah öcalan. even from prison as a convicted criminal, his influence cannot be underestimated. as with so many other conflicts, then, it is often necessary to negotiate with one’s worst enemy – we have experience in the united kingdom in northern ireland with the ira, the spanish with the basque terrorists and so on – in order to achieve a shared goal of peace. finally, i too utterly condemn the brutal murder of the three pkk activists in their paris office last month. the perpetrators must be brought to justice and not be permitted to derail the fragile peace negotiations between the kurdish population and the turkish government.
mr president, both sides appear finally to have realised that their previous antagonistic positions have comprehensively failed, so while we can strongly welcome turkish rapprochement with the kurds and the pacification – if it comes – of the pkk, i think we also have the right to ask from turkey moral, political and perhaps military support for the fight to combat the jihadists in the sahel and the middle east. the jpc will be in ankara next week and we shall be seeking clarification from turkey about reciprocal support to fight terrorism. (the president told the speaker that the earl of dartmouth wished to ask him a blue card question)yes, i suspected he might. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr duff, your suspicion was spot on. do you regard turkey’s treatment of the kurds, that has been eloquently outlined by our colleagues in this chamber, as being a qualification for turkey’s membership of the european union, or not?
blue-card answer. – i certainly see a serious and genuine attempt to reconcile what was previously an intractable and painful problem to be precisely an expression of european values that will certainly make turkey a credible partner and possible member of our family.
mr president, there are already approximately 200 000 kurds living in the united kingdom. the kurds in the united kingdom are concentrated in our large cities where, even at the present time, there is profound pressure on public services, especially health and education. according to the home affairs select committee of the british house of commons, should turkey become a member of the european union, up to 4.4 million turkish citizens, of all ethnic groups, would emigrate to britain, where they would then have the right to benefits and the nhs. i do not blame the kurds for wanting to leave. ankara has a decades-long policy of denying them elementary linguistic and other cultural rights. however, the solution is not mass immigration to the uk and other eu member states. the solution is that turkey start to treat its minorities with decency and respect. we should make it crystal clear that turkey, an asian country, cannot join the eu. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam, i must ask you to understand and accept that you cannot separate, we cannot separate, turkey’s systematic violation of human rights – not just of kurds but of dissenters, christians, journalists and so on – from its application to be a member of the european union. and the establishment parties, of which actually you are not one, should be ashamed of themselves that they systematically and consistently cover these matters up.
mr president, i fully support the point made by mrs oomen-ruijten about making the progress report available in turkish. that would have been automatic if turkish had become an official language, as it should have done in 2004 upon the accession of cyprus. i strongly welcome this debate. some of us have tried for many years to put the kurdish issue in turkey on the eu agenda. all the eu institutions, not just parliament, must now give strong political diplomatic and economic support to the dialogue leading to a negotiated solution which allows kurds, with their language, to be fully recognised and integrated as citizens of the turkish state. the commission, high representative and council cannot tread any longer around the issues of this matter because it connects so closely with the issues we constantly raise with turkey: a new constitutional settlement, democratic and journalistic freedoms, the rule of law, the proper role of the army and so on. solving the kurdish question is the major key to a stable democratic turkey at ease with diversity. the eu should press both sides to abandon the military struggle and talk politics.
mr president, every month i walk by rue lafayette near the gare du nord in paris, where three female kurdish activists were gunned down in january. i would like to express my condolences to the families of these victims. i hope that the killings do not further unsettle the fragile peace process between turks and kurds. thankfully, i am pleased that last year’s two-month hunger strike by hundreds of kurdish prisoners and ordinary citizens came to an end without incident. but these events underline the importance of reaching a political settlement on the kurdish question in turkey. i call on the turkish government to recognise kurdish language rights in the public sphere and other fundamental civil liberties. the eu must do all it can to support minority rights in a candidate country of the european union. the eu should support renewed efforts towards a political solution to the kurdish issue and help put an end to the 30-year-old conflict which has cost 40 000 lives.
mr president, i make these comments as a friend of turkey but i have to say that, worryingly, since 2009 over 8 000 pro-kurdish politicians, lawyers, academics and writers have been arrested on charges of terrorism. journalists are the latest group to go on trial. prosecutions often form a pattern where critical writing, political speeches and participation at peaceful demonstrations are used as evidence of terrorism offences, and this approach is unacceptable. a solution can be found and will be found, but only by including both sides. therefore we need to work together with turkey and those elements that wish to reach a solution, so that the eu can be an effective intermediary. the government needs to reform oppressive laws that jail legitimate kurdish politicians and to make amends for the excessive behaviour of its security forces. the kurdish movement, including pkk leaders, must denounce terrorist attacks, must distance themselves from terrorist attacks, and publicly commit to realistic political goals. above all else, politicians on all sides must legalise the rights of most of turkey’s kurds, including mother-language education, an end to discriminatory laws, fair political representation and more decentralisation.
mr president, some in this debate have once again used this issue simply to bash turkey; they have no interest in specific political and human rights of the kurdish community. however, those of us who have pushed for this full european parliament plenary debate do, and it is right that those arguments are aired. we seek to persuade turkey that, although their definition of what it means to be a minority is different from the one adopted in this chamber, as a future member of the european union, supporting a pluralist society in which minority rights are fully accepted is part of being a member of the european union and is not a threat to the unity of the state. we want our turkish friends and colleagues to understand that we understand that this is a difficult and sensitive issue in their society. i would never have believed myself that there would be direct talks with abdullah öcalan, but the progress that has been made has been made because we have applied constant pressure, and we must continue to do so, as we are doing in this debate today. in that context, it is not just for the government to move: i would like to acknowledge the movement by the opposition republican people’s party, the chp, that has taken place. teaching of the kurdish language in turkish schools is essential, as is its use in police stations and courts and elsewhere in public service. i welcome the new law for kurdish to be used in legal defence. however, when i went to a court case in the kck trials in diyarbakir, i was prevented from entering the courtroom, and i saw the defendants’ lawyers walk out because kurdish was not able to be used in those cases, although i had been told beforehand that an opportunity would occur. many mayors and political activists remain in jail, arrested because they campaigned in the kurdish language, and it is essential that all political prisoners are released. i join with others who say that the kurdish community itself must distance itself from violence and must support disarmament and not be triumphalist, as occurred when demobilisation took place. for either side there is no military solution to this conflict. the winner must be peace.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i welcome this debate and our resolution, with its emphasis on the importance in the forthcoming human rights council session of dealing with issues ranging from the negative impact of the financial and economic crisis, the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the vienna declaration, the interactive debate on the rights of people with disabilities and the panel discussion on human rights mainstreaming. we are working very hard to try to mainstream human rights here in the external action service in the european union and it is right that we support efforts to do so in the united nations. on country-specific actions, i welcome what the president-in-office has said about bahrain. having been in bahrain with the subcommittee on human rights just before christmas and having visited, with my portuguese colleague beside me, jau prison, where it is claimed there are some 800 political prisoners and where i heard testimonies about torture and mistreatment, i think it is absolutely right that we keep up the pressure in relation to that country. i also welcome what the president-in-office said in relation to israel. i had the israeli political counsellor with me today and i talked to him about the importance of his country’s engagement with the palestinians, while recognising the importance of our engagement with israel. therefore it is extremely disappointing that they do not engage with the universal periodic review in the un human rights council. i thank her for what she said. in relation to sri lanka, i am disappointed because we worked so hard, both in my group and in this parliament, to try to build bridges with sri lanka in order to move forward on some of the human rights issues. but they have to understand that, if the first woman supreme court chair is removed from office and then the international bar association is prevented from visiting the country to investigate what has happened, we will criticise. we do not do it for its own sake but those criticisms must be heard. i am very disappointed that my group’s suggestion for a parliamentary report on the situation of the western sahara has been watered down in this parliament, first of all to the sahara and now to the sahel. i agree with the president-in-office that there are big issues across the sahel region. we understand that at the moment, but those should not be progressed at the expense of recognising that there are real issues around freedom of expression, freedom of association and the right to demonstrate of the saharawi people, including political prisoners. a special envoy has of course been appointed and i call on the eeas to make sure that issue is dealt with in the human rights council. finally, on the day of the agreement of my own report on corporate responsibility, i am delighted that there will be thematic attention at the human rights council on the un guiding principles on business and human rights. out of 27 of our eu member states, 19 are undertaking national action plans on the guiding principles. let us take that enthusiasm and that fervour with us to try to make sure implementation is not just taking place in europe but is happening worldwide. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr howitt, do you not accept both my personal assurances as the rapporteur on the sahel and the written minutes of the enlarged bureau that this report on the sahel will also make reference to human rights in western sahara, because i thought that was made very clear? the reason the title was changed is because otherwise it would have been too large a report for any reasonable rapporteur to cope with, if it covered the entire sahel and the sahara region with it.
blue-card answer. – first of all i accept your personal good faith: i make no personal criticism of my honourable colleague. but the proposal from the socialist and democrat group was for a report on the western sahara, and it is disappointing to me that this has not been respected. i am aware of that minute – i accept it – and i am sure you will do your best within the terms of reference that have been given to you. we too will do our best to contribute to the work on your report in a constructive way.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the 22nd session of the un human rights council offers a comprehensive overview of the world’s major human rights trouble spots. both my group and i broadly support its conclusions, particularly regarding the universal periodic review and the necessity of guarding and developing human rights in the arab spring countries. syria, of course, currently offers the bleakest outlook in this regard as the abuses perpetrated by the assad regime and, sadly, some of the extremist factions within the rebels, show no signs of abating. we must also watch closely the situation in egypt, libya and, increasingly, tunisia, where only yesterday an opposition secular leader was assassinated. the shock over the egyptian police’s treatment of protestors last week also demonstrates how this country risks replacing one form of tyranny, a secular one, with another. the situation in mali is also worrying at the moment. elsewhere the report has valuable things to say on the subject of religious rights. i am a longstanding supporter of christian rights in countries where they form a minority. governments in countries as diverse as china, iran, vietnam and eritrea actively persecute christian minorities. more broadly, people everywhere must peaceably worship as they choose. linked in with the religious rights is freedom of speech, and the report highlights the need for journalists, ngos and human rights defenders to play a full role in their societies. i also welcome the section on lgbt rights. clearly there is a long way to go in this regard, but we can all agree that imprisoning gay people, let alone sentencing them to death, as proposed recently in uganda, is unacceptable. african leaders who claim that homosexuality is somehow a european import are simply mistaken. one report element that i dislike is the overtly condemnatory tone towards israel. but overall, nevertheless, the report is very welcome. the eu must harness all the tools at its disposal, from the european external action service and the commission to parliament delegations, to work with the united nations to see changes implemented and success delivered for all of us.
mr president, let me start by saying that human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent, and it is indispensable that the eu puts this at the forefront of all its policies. in this respect, i condemn the ongoing attempts to undermine the universality and indivisibility of human rights, in particular with a resolution on so-called traditional values. i welcome the focus of the resolution we will vote on tomorrow in advance of the unhrc on minority rights, including lgbt rights. i thank the commission for supporting the regional meeting on violence and discrimination against lgbt people (even though the commission is not represented here) co-organised by the french government in paris in march, and i hope that this is a sign that the commission is starting to bring forward an lgbt rights roadmap. i take this opportunity to congratulate the work of navi pillay, the un high commissioner for human rights, and i encourage our colleague stavros lambrinidis to work closely with her to continue to contribute to the eu’s leadership on this vital issue.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i witnessed the attempt on the leader’s life at the recent congress of bulgaria’s movement for rights and freedoms. that incident of itself might not justify this debate; the reaction to it by the bulgarian authorities makes it imperative. it was first announced that the attacker, armed with a gas pistol and two knives, would be charged with attempted murder. a few hours later, the interior minister asked the judiciary to press only minor charges. attempts were made to trivialise the incident. a charge of hooliganism and a death threat is not sufficient for an attack of this nature, particularly since the procurator general has today suggested that the attacker did not act alone. questions should be asked about the security arrangements for the conference. two letters from the party to the interior ministry requesting adequate security went unanswered, and the attack showed protection to be severely lacking. we have long been concerned about bulgaria’s judiciary. the veneta markovska affair and a controversial judicial appointment have heightened that concern. the european commission’s verification report last july highlighted worries about judicial independence and about the commitment to and direction of reform, in particular the postponement of the new penal code. it is disgraceful for mr weber to suggest, in support of a rogue party in his increasingly cynical political family, that this debate is about an election campaign. the sad fact is that the key institutions of justice do not command public confidence in bulgaria. the liberal democrats welcome commissioner malmström’s commitment to follow the trial. as with commissioner reding’s action in hungary, this house expects no less. but the commission must insist, too, on a full investigation, of which the results must be made public. the commission will shortly give the council an oral update on progress under the cooperation and verification mechanism. such an update could usefully be given here too. bulgaria’s people are on the right path, but leadership is lacking. we expect bulgaria to attain and live up to eu standards of justice, and we urge the union and its member states to redouble their efforts to help bulgaria in this task. (the speaker accepted to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr stoyanov, i know of your political party and what you stand for but you must know too that the attacker was armed not only with a gas pistol – which, at the range at which it was fired, had it gone off, might well have killed – but was armed also with two knives. that was established immediately after the event. the prosecutor for sofia said that the assailant would be charged for murder. that charge was later reduced, on a request from the interior ministry, to a charge of hooliganism and death threats. it seems to us that those charges are insufficient for an issue of this nature, involving as it does a party representing a community which already feels under attack in your country.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, five years have now passed since bulgaria’s accession in 2007, yet it seems we are still concerned with many of the same issues that troubled us then, and i must express some disappointment. in my final report on the accession of bulgaria in 2006, i emphasised the need to enhance the transparency, efficiency and impartiality of the judiciary, the need for substantive results in the fight against corruption (with special emphasis on the fight against organised crime), and the importance of improving the conditions of roma communities so that they would be more content living in bulgaria. while we can see many areas of progress and positive development in bulgaria, these problems have not been adequately addressed, and some of them are reflected in the commission’s continuing reports under the cooperation and verification mechanism. they are at the root of so many of the difficulties that we see today. most recently we have seen the very serious criticisms of senior judicial appointments, the continuing accusations of linkage of politicians and state officials with organised crime and the old state security apparatus, bulgarian criminal gangs active in fifteen member states according to europol, the very serious political attack that has just been referred to, and the concerns expressed in a number of member states about the possibility of an influx of poor migrants that may become a burden on social services in those countries. some of these matters need to be addressed by the member states concerned and by the eu but, mr president, bulgaria itself needs to address its long-standing problems with greater urgency. it is time for those politicians of real integrity to offer the bulgarian people genuine change that is necessary and that they can believe in. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr van orden, if in your report five years ago you highlighted all these problems – which were very serious problems then and which you now say are still very serious problems and in fact even worse probably than when you wrote your report – why did you then feel it necessary to recommend bulgarian entry to the eu when it clearly did not fulfil the criteria that one would expect, the most basic criteria about rule of law and democracy in an entrant country?
blue-card answer. – i am very happy to answer that. the questions that were raised then are valid today, as i have now indicated. but the reasons why it was right for bulgaria to accede at that time were absolutely correct and remain correct. this was at a time when bulgaria needed to have the confidence of being very much part of a western club. it was at a time of growing russian influence in that part of the world, when they needed economic confidence and when investors in bulgaria needed to have the prospect of stability, and at a time when there were extremist forces on the rise in bulgaria that needed to be allayed. for all of those reasons it was right for bulgaria to join the european union. but at that time we made it very clear that there was a need for continuing reform and, in particular, reform in those areas which i have now indicated. my disappointment is that they have not addressed those concerns with sufficient urgency. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well, one of the reasons why we have been very much in favour of enlargement of the european union is that eventually market opportunities will be increased for all of us. that is the whole point of the single market of 500 million people. that is the whole idea, but there are a lot of specific reasons why it was right to bring bulgaria in at that particular time.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in january 2014 the final restrictions will be lifted on immigration into britain from romania and bulgaria. a further 29 million people will be given the automatic right of entry, and it is estimated that this will result in at least 50 000 extra immigrants per year over the next five years. britain is already overwhelmed and swamped with immigration because, as a member of the european union, we have surrendered our right to control it. the british have nothing against bulgarians or anyone else: we do not blame them for wanting to better their lives. but why do so many bulgarians want to leave their country? bulgaria is a desperately poor country under the control of criminals. let me quote from the new york times: ‘politics is played to the death in bulgaria, where the lives of politicians can be as cheap as spent bullets and murky business groups wage a murderous struggle for their cut of everything from real estate deals to millions in european aid’. atanas atanasov, a former counter-intelligence chief, has said, ‘other countries have the mafia; in bulgaria the mafia have the country’. how can democracy prosper under these conditions? there is a lack of a free media and press, a corrupt judiciary and legal system, widespread electoral fraud and criminal control of business. it is no surprise that many bulgarians will choose to move somewhere else. one good thing that the eu did do was to suspend payments to bulgaria. it is not right to send millions in aid for their criminals to plunder and make them richer. i feel desperately sorry for decent bulgarians, but i feel even sorrier for my own country, which is being destroyed by membership of the european union. the british political establishment is dedicated – or seems dedicated – to turning britain into a third-world country. britain cannot solve bulgaria’s problems by importing bulgarians. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – much has been made of individual rights and liberties in this very interesting debate. would you agree with me that it is time that governments from the member states who are represented here in this parliament caught up with the international community, notably the united kingdom and the united states, in classifying hezbollah as a terrorist organisation, given the fact that last night an investigation concluded that it was behind the bombing attack in bulgaria in july 2012 which killed five israeli tourists?
blue-card answer. – yes mrs dodds, i would agree with you. i think that we should designate groups like that as terrorism because the last thing that we want to see is what happened in northern ireland. terrorism and politics often go hand in hand and i would hate to see it happen in my country, as it did in northern ireland, that the terrorists actually propel people into government, where they are now. of course, i would like to see action taken against islamic fundamentalism wherever it raises its head because it goes hand in hand with terrorism. in london we now have sharia patrols intimidating people on the street on what they can or cannot do or can or cannot wear, and gays have been intimidated in the bethnal green area. i think it is very important, i take your point and i totally agree with you.
i would like to point out to mr batten that northern ireland is his country.
it is part of the united kingdom, and i accept that: that was a slip of the tongue. but of course the european union is busy regionalising our nation, so very soon it probably will not be the united kingdom anyway when scotland chooses to leave, and i expect you probably as a conservative would be in support of (microphone momentarily switched off) as well.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask mr stoyanov whether he believes that the satanisation of a political party – and this is not the first example, sadly, of such expressions from members of his party in his country –particularly a political party representing a minority community in his country, is likely to lead to confidence in the rest of the european union in the development of bulgaria as a modern democracy.
speaking to franz obermayr. − you say there is no german interpretation, but we can hear german down here. this is a strasbourg problem – i am so sorry. we will get the technical services to look at this.
mr president, i knew there was a way you were going to get strasbourg into the conversation. there is a continual tension – and i have been involved in this tension as coordinator on the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs – when we focus on an individual member state clearly in a state of flux, particularly in relation to its record on the judiciary and on policing and criminal justice. there is no question that this creates tension and conflict. the stimulus for this debate is clearly an incident which is causing deep emotion, and that is well placed. but there is no question that we have copenhagen criteria and there is no question that this is a matter for the whole of the european union. we are a community of values. if we can help a member state by focusing on those values – the centre for european policy studies has said that after 20 years of democratic development judicial independence still remains a key and deep problem – and if, five years after accession there are still deep problems and there is some way we can address these problems, that is something we have to do. if this debate helps to do that, then that is something that we need to debate.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we have gone to climate change conferences in the past and one of our strategies has been to lead by example. that is why we look at the range of initiatives that must be taken and we see, for example, carbon capture and storage, something which we are told will be necessary to reduce our emissions by 2050 by up to 25% globally. and so in 2007 our governments said they wanted to have up to 12 ccs projects in operation in the european union by 2015. and what have we got six years later? not even one project identified and going forward. we have slipped back appallingly. it has been a european failure. we have been far from taking a lead. but projects are going elsewhere. there are 17 ccs projects either in operation or under construction across the world, saving up to 37 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. the majority are in the united states and canada. we criticise those countries over greenhouse gases but they are doing something. we criticise china over its fossil-fuel power stations but under their ten-year plan, their five-year plan, say up to 10 ccs plants will be developed. so we are being left behind here on an advanced technology. we cannot afford that. now there is no blame. there is a lot of disappointment amongst the commission officials and amongst companies. one of the reasons for it is the collapse in the carbon price which has sucked out the economic drive behind ccs, but there are things we must do. i do not think the division between dg climate and dg energy over ccs helps. i think the ner300, our funding mechanism, is too inflexible and there are really only two projects around in europe that it could fund in future, so there is no point in that. we have placed too much reliance on the carbon price, not enough on direct subsidies. we subsidise renewable energy and yet ccs can save vastly more co2 emissions in the atmosphere than renewables. and finally, we need to use binding instruments, regulatory instruments, targets. we need to drive forward this technology. we cannot afford to be left behind.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, while the challenge of climate change must not be underestimated, we must also remember our constituents face their own challenge, paying the high cost of energy bills. so as we head towards beautiful warsaw i would like the eu to take a negotiating position which addresses both challenges. ambitious targets for cutting greenhouse gases are all well and good but they must allow us to keep pace with the growing demand for energy. green energy also needs to offer consumers value for money. we must ensure a multifaceted approach to addressing climate change which includes renewables, as well as other sources of energy such as nuclear power and shale gas. we need to make our energy resources more sustainable and our energy consumption more efficient. i welcome the uk government’s green deal scheme to improve energy efficiency and help families cut their household energy bills. we also need to invest in energy-efficient technology. any deal which is negotiated in warsaw needs to be good for climate, good for the country and, most importantly, good for the consumers.
madam president, the economic crisis currently being experienced in developed countries such as ireland must not be used as an excuse to ignore or to divert attention away from the extremely important issue of climate change. i would urge the junior minister that it be prioritised in ireland. as bairbre de brún, my predecessor, who did sterling work on this matter, would have done, i urge countries to move towards a sustainable and low-carbon economy where jobs can be created, whilst protecting the economy. at conference of the parties (cop) 19 in warsaw the eu must set out an ambitious, strong and effective stance in seeking a deal on climate change. i urge the irish government to use the opportunity afforded to it during its presidency to demonstrate strong leadership in preparing for this and to outline its strategy, which unfortunately i do not think we heard in the opening address from the minister.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank david casa for his good work on this report which brings forward a quick reaction mechanism (qrm) that can be utilised by member states to combat vat fraud. there have been many cases in recent years of vat fraud, particularly carousel fraud, and it has been difficult for member states to react effectively. under these proposals, member states will no longer have to request a formal derogation from the commission. instead, they will have the power to put in place a temporary derogation themselves within a month of establishing the existence of the fraud. given the wider impacts of a reversed charge on business, and on the vat system itself, the qrm should only be used as a measure of last resort when other options already available within the directive have failed. member states should not automatically move to a reverse charge and it should not be seen as a substitute for a more rigorous risk assessment and visiting regime. i am happy to give this report my support and also the support of my group. on a final note, can i just pay tribute to the work of david casa. the maltese election will be held on 9 march. he is not in the chamber because he is campaigning in that election and we may not see him again. whilst i wish him well, it will be sad if he does leave us because of his election to the maltese parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, let us look at vat, shall we? what is it really? well, of course it is a tax, so it is just a form of extortion by the state confiscating money from ordinary working people for the state to spend on itself. it is bureaucracy, politicians, subsidies for cronies and donors to party funds. the tax is regressive and monstrous – 20 % in the united kingdom. it is inflationary, obviously, with 20 % on all goods. it is closing down retailers in the high street. manufacturers are on three-day weeks. in the uk manufacturing has fallen 35 % in the last few years. and what a silly tax it is. it is paid and reclaimed throughout the life of a transaction. it is not applied when value is added, whatever that may mean, but at the end so the customer pays it or simply withdraws his custom. so you get a recession. notwithstanding the draconian powers given to vat collectors, worthy of the old east german secret police – and i know some of you want to bring that back – fraud is rife. as criminals are always more clever than politicians – hey, what is the difference? – fraud will remain. if you really want to get rid of fraud, get rid of the tax.
mr president, my prime minister describes members of the united kingdom independence party interchangeably as ‘fruitcakes’ and ‘loonies’. the remarks made before by mr bloom were, i think, using another word to test the interpreters, twaddle. no one likes paying taxes of course, but we have to. and what is so serious about massive extortion and massive fraud is that member states suffer losses of as much as eur 100 billion a day as a result of major criminal activity in this field. i therefore very much welcome this report, and i also very much welcome the initiatives taken by david casa, and wish him well in the future if he is no longer in this house. quite frankly, the only thing we must do is to always be vigilant to counter the sort of criminality which involves itself in major fraud. this particular area of fraud in europe is particularly important. to protect our citizens, the legitimate, honest and honourable citizens of europe, we have to deal with these offences and deal with them strongly and vigorously.
in writing. – vat fraud costs the eu and national budgets several billion euro every year. in some serious cases, vast sums are lost within a very short timeframe, due to the speed at which fraud schemes evolve nowadays. for example, between june 2008 and december 2009, an estimated eur 5 billion was lost as a result of vat fraud in greenhouse gas emission allowances. currently, if a member state wishes to counteract vat fraud through measures not provided for under eu vat legislation, it must formally request a derogation to do so. the commission then draws up a proposal to this effect and submits it to the council for unanimous adoption before the measures can be implemented. this process can be slow and cumbersome, delaying the member state in question from taking the necessary action to stop the fraud. with the quick reaction mechanism, member states would no longer have to wait for this formal process to be completed before applying specific anti-fraud measures. instead, a faster procedure would grant them a temporary derogation within a month. the derogation would be valid for up to one year. this would allow the member state in question to begin counteracting the fraud nearly immediately.
mr president, i wish to protest. years ago i was responsible, in the corbett report, for making it possible for the written declarations to be moved from an obscure office to being outside the chamber. this was a real victory for backbench democracy, for ordinary meps to let off steam against perhaps the wishes of the big political groups. it has now been banished back to that office by ms ratti, the deputy secretary-general, without any consultation as far as i know or debate in this house. please can we look at that again, because i think it is a huge blow to parliamentary democracy not to have the written declarations where they were before. (applause)
chair of the econ committee. – mr president, we have had problems with the technical standards on emir, both in terms of the technical content, procedural cooperation and timing. i thank the commissioner for engaging with us on this matter, coming up with the declaration and being prepared to address the technical issues that we have identified, as well as for the commissioner's assurance that there will be a better cooperation on procedures going forward. i can also say that, with regard to some of the matters on timing, i have already taken steps today to begin to incorporate some more safeguards into level-1 texts. so this is terra nova, as the commissioner has said, and an ongoing matter. i have received some verbal and written assurances that the problems will be addressed through the commission publishing frequently asked questions and the responses to those. i am also expecting a follow-up in amended technical standards in due course. on that basis, and on behalf of the committee and the emir rapporteur, werner langen, i am withdrawing this resolution.
mr president, it is clear that each member state suffers from the same kind of ageing demographics. we clearly need to find new ways, within the health and social care budgets, to cope with the ageing demographic whose challenges we all need to see. i am proud to say that, in my own constituency of northern ireland, we are leading the way in relation to the e-health agenda and our participation in the innovation partnership. in northern ireland we are using technology to assist patients and healthcare professionals to better manage health and social care, which is leading to improved patient care and easing the burden on our hospitals. however, we are doing more. we are also linking these advances in health and social care to our economy with real opportunities for jobs and growth.
mr president, ageing is a challenge we must all face and in fact, for the record, professionally i trained as an old-age psychiatrist. the elderly are a growing portion of the eu population and have a great deal to contribute to our societies. growing older should have no correlation to quality of life and it is important that we ensure that all of our respective national elderly populations age with grace and with opportunities to continue to be active, to learn new things and to enjoy their lives. however, environment and place play an integral role in the process of ageing. one of my constituents in london will experience growing older quite differently to another in paris in budapest. as a social policy, there is no eu one-size-fits-all prescription for healthy ageing. public health matters such as this are place-specific, and for this reason remain within the competence of member states. while we can agree to the goal of supporting our ageing populations, the issue falls best within the national, local and regional context, not done by the eu.
in writing. − while i have a great deal of respect for the elderly and believe that they deserve the very best in life having helped rebuild the uk, and indeed the whole of europe, following the war, i am against such a partnership as the one outlined here and especially against the promotion of immigration it entails, given the huge immigration problems we are currently experiencing in the uk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this strategic implementation plan on active and healthy ageing. the commission has set a target of increasing the healthy lifespan of eu citizens by two years by 2020. the plan is focused on four pillars, including prevention and early diagnosis as well as care and cure and active ageing and independent living. as one of the first countries to appoint a commissioner for older people, i am certain that wales will play an active role in the development of the plan.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that this resolution underlines the importance of ensuring health and safety at work as a prerequisite for a sustainable working life and for active ageing, notably for workers with disabilities or chronic conditions. it points out that ict and machines could play a key role by easing physical tasks for our ageing workforce; it calls on the commission and the member states to promote such technologies where appropriate. parliament welcomes the recognition of the significance of prevention in the first pillar of the strategic implementation plan. parliament is convinced that prevention also plays a key role at work, by improving occupational health and consequently reducing pressure on health and long-term care systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as healthy and active ageing is a pressing topic with europe facing an ever growing population of elderly people at present and active ageing, sports and recreational activities should be increasingly promoted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to recognise the change in demographics due to an ageing population across the eu. europeans are living much longer than they used to, and it is important that we take steps to ensure that older people have access to a wealth of opportunities and support. as the fastest growing age group in europe, older members of society should be able to live active and independent lives and have access to adequate health care and employment options. it is also vital for the eu to lead the fight against age discrimination and for older european citizens to take their place in society on equal terms, which is why i voted for this report.
in writing. − this report, whilst well intentioned, amounts to such an extension of the eu’s competence in public health that my group’s uk delegation decided to vote against. nobody can argue that member states can learn from each other in terms of how to best provide appropriate support and care to our elderly. moreover, the report is right to highlight that older people can make a valuable contribution to society through their experience, and they should enjoy their retirement free of stigma or abuse. nonetheless, this report attempts to needlessly extend the eu’s competency in public health, by suggesting that this competence should be incorporated into all existing eu policies, from employment to economic policy, to give just two big examples. this report also attempts to demand that all member states exempt their welfare and healthcare systems from their programmes of fiscal consolidation. in short, it is not the place of this parliament to interfere with member states’ healthcare arrangements, and therefore my delegation elected to vote against this report.
mr president, the idea of banning trade in products from endangered species is one of those things that sounds terribly nice until you look at the consequences of it. where people have been prevented from trading, in other words prevented from treating local wildlife as a renewable resource, they have very naturally hunted that wildlife to extinction. whereas, in the small number of territories where wildlife is treated as the property of the person on whose territory it finds itself, people have been given an incentive to renew and care for its numbers. you see this in the relative boom of elephant numbers in south africa, as against the total extirpation of the species in kenya, because the one recognised property rights and the other simply banned it. this is a very good example of where we are passing legislation to make ourselves feel better rather than to effect a practical outcome on the ground.
in writing. − while i agree that all the animals that share our planet deserve to be valued as part of our global diversity and treated compassionately by humans, i believe that uk monies should be concentrated on uk-based conservation measures, not globalisation projects such as the one in this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report agreed on by several political groups. the convention on the trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora meets in bangkok in march and it is vital that the fight against illegal poaching is stepped up as well as further controls adopted on trade in animals. as a nation committed to achieving sustainability, wales will play its part in achieving this aim, despite not being a signatory to cites in its own right yet.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which urges the european union and the member states to reject any proposals to downlist the african elephant or the trade in african elephant ivory until an assessment can be made of the impact of the one-off sale in november 2008 by botswana, namibia, south africa and zimbabwe and it has been established that that the one-off sale has had no adverse effect on elephant populations in those countries or in neighbouring countries. it encourages the cites parties, bearing in mind the current elephant poaching crisis, to take a precautionary approach and base their decisions on the possible impact on elephant conservation and the implementation of the african elephant action plan when considering the decision-making mechanism for a future trade in elephant ivory after the complete nine-year resting period starting from the one-off sale in november 2008. it calls on the european union and the member states to support a proposal to amend decision 14.77 on a decision-making mechanism for a future trade in elephant ivory. it encourages the cites parties to support the adoption of the resolution on the african elephant action plan, as tabled by nigeria and rwanda, and the implementation of this plan as the most efficient way forward for the conservation of elephants across africa.
in writing. − i voted in favour of preparations for the 16th conference of parties in thailand to be under way.
mr president, if the european institutions are to have any connection with their constituents, our constituents must see that those that work here and the conditions they carry out their work in are similar to the situations they face at home and at work. my constituents face rising costs of living and a squeeze on the family budget, yet the reality in the european institutions is very different. we continue to see staff levels at unsustainable levels and the rich rewards for staff in terms of remuneration and pension provision. while people at home tighten their belts, it seems for the eu that austerity is simply an alien concept, only for member states and the people who elect us. such an attitude is unacceptable and breeds contempt. now is the time that the eu should get real about its budgets. no rises but cuts. by all means target money at productive schemes, but cut out the waste that cannot be justified.
in writing. − i am completely against the wasting of uk monies, particularly on the european external action service which, i believe, should be closed down once and for all. in these times of austerity, taxpayers’ money should not be spent on eu global projects, but should be concentrated on funding services and measures within the member states. indeed, there is a dire need for more austerity measures to be implemented within the eu itself.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i also supported the amendment calling for a decrease in the general expenditure allowance of meps and for new up-to-date figures on the financial and environmental costs of the two seats of the ep. i have opposed the proposed cuts to the eu budget in areas such as structural and agricultural funding which would be disastrous for wales. however, there are cuts that can be made and this report outlined some.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report which calls for the eu institutions to continue to limit or freeze their expenditure in solidarity with the difficult conditions in the member states. furthermore, i support the calls made in the report for the continuation of structural and organisations reforms as well as insisting that efficiencies be found in the parliament’s working arrangements in addition to calling for the joint budg-bureau working group to continue its work in analysing possible ways forward for reform. i wish to note that such reforms have already been suggested by a majority in this house and it is my sincere hope that these proposals will be met with a serious review of the wasteful practise of having two seats for this parliament.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which urges the institutions to strengthen their mutual cooperation in view of sharing best practices, where possible and justified, and of identifying savings through pooling and sharing of human and technical resources, for example in information technology systems, translation, interpretation and transportation services and, possibly, other areas.
in writing. − the report is important as it calls for further savings to be made where possible, therefore i voted in favour
in writing. − it is very rare that i vote in favour of a report on the eu budget. but, for once, i am able to accept these proposals because they actually call for a freeze in eu expenditure. this is only proper when member states are facing cuts in their national budgets. but we need to go further. we need to root out inefficiencies and put an end to unnecessary expenditure. in order to fairly represent our citizens, meps need to make cuts to the parliament’s budget including addressing the question of their own allowances. we need to reduce staff numbers and index the retirement age of officials to life expectancy. we need to get rid of expensive vanity projects such as the 56-million-euro house of european history. the rapporteur also calls on parliament to reduce the number of business trips its officials make. yet it fails to make a bold recommendation which would save parliament €180 million a year. and that recommendation would be, of course, to scrap strasbourg.
mr president, corporate social responsibility programmes can have powerful impacts at local level on alleviating social issues throughout the world. for businesses which choose to create such programmes and have the capacity to manage them, i fully support their endeavours, but businesses should have the right to choose whether or not to participate in such programmes and this decision lies firmly with its shareholders and boards of directors. for many smes, supporting csr programmes can be unduly financially burdensome. the promotion of csr goals must consider smes especially, and the unique challenges that they face. while it is great for all to lend a helping hand when they can, csr programmes and their implementation should be voluntary and conducive to successful enterprise. csr must be an option which shareholders have to endorse in order to enhance their businesses’ good reputation and goodwill with local communities, but they should never be obliged to do it, and they must not be unduly burdened by doing so.
in writing. − i agree with that fact that business cannot take over public authorities’ responsibility for promoting, implementing and monitoring social and environmental standards. however, i oppose the idea that we need a robust legal framework drawn up to avoid the risk of any competitive advantages or disadvantages emerging at regional, national or macroregional level.
in writing. − my support for this report is based on experience in my own rhondda community of a successful company making huge profits that nevertheless put hundreds of people out of work in order to relocate to make even more money. the factory had been in treorci (wales) for decades and provided good-quality jobs. unemployment in the area is high. the company’s website listed good policies on social responsibility that in practice meant little. i think it is vital that the commission brings forward a legislative proposal on the transparency of the information provided by companies.
in writing. − i have voted in support of this report as i consider corporate social responsibility vital for future of the european economy. the approach adopted in the text is one which recognises the benefits that an effective, non-bureaucratic approach can deliver. in contrast to the howitt report, which i voted against, this text makes clear that, while it remains for public authorities to promote and monitor social and environmental standards, we need a business-led solution to implementing csr requirements. the report is careful to note that voluntary solutions should be the first approach to be taken in this area, and that any measures should not increase red tape. i believe that charity and social responsibility are voluntary acts that should not be regulated or enforced.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution, which stresses that stringent respect for human rights, due diligence and transparency must be maintained in order to ensure csr along the whole supply chain, measure the sustainability footprint of european business, and combat tax avoidance and illicit money flows.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the report stresses the importance of having both voluntary and obligatory measures in place for companies concerning csr reporting, and considered that the ultimate goal should be competitiveness and innovation.
in writing. − i fully support this report, which calls on the commission to implement measures which encourage large companies and multinationals to improve the level of corporate social responsibility (csr) in their business models. the economic crisis has damaged consumer trust in businesses, particularly in terms of their ethical standards, so it is important to take steps to ensure that businesses conduct their affairs in a responsible manner, which will in turn encourage competitiveness and innovation. establishing adequate levels of csr is an integral component in restoring trust in big business and i agree that practices which undermine public perception of multinationals - such as excessive bonuses and 'green-washing' - have no place in socially responsible business and should be eradicated.
in writing. − this report calls for yet more regulations to be imposed on smes, creating additional burdens at a time we should be doing everything we can to help them flourish in order to get our economy back on track.
in writing. − this is now an annual exercise in looking at corporate social responsibility. it is a weak report, which does not recommend binding regulation. my group’s amendments on that issue were rejected. i therefore abstained on the final vote. i know from experience in wales that stronger regulation is required.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which supports the commission’s intention to deepen csr in europe by producing guidelines and supporting multi-stakeholder initiatives for individual industrial sectors, and appeals to leading companies and associations to embrace this initiative.
in writing. − i voted in favour as i support the key message from this report – that csr forms a vital part of the route towards a sustainable recovery and that the eu and its member states as well as our companies must work harder to increase company engagement and to meet international standards and initiatives.
in writing. − i gave my full backing to a report today which calls for businesses and companies to make positive contributions to society through corporate social responsibility (csr). i agree that increased measures are needed to bring about environmental changes to ensure a sustainable economic recovery and i echo the rapporteur's calls for eu businesses to take action on youth job creation and address exploitative work practices. furthermore, i support the promotion of new markets in socially useful and environmental products and services. i sincerely hope that this vote will be addressed by the commission and that it will push forward new proposals for a law on non-financial reporting by business, which would require companies to publicly report on their sustainability. finally, i specifically support calls for the european commission to lead on this issue - to report on the sustainability of the institution and to introduce scheme where staff are able to volunteer in social and environmental projects.
mr president, we have been talking since the financial crisis about the need to harmonise taxes as part of the general move towards a common finance ministry and debt pooling and so on, but it is easy to forget that the european union has been operating a form of tax harmonisation from the very beginning. nowhere is this clearer than in the field of indirect and corporate taxes. vat was imposed in the united kingdom in effect as a preparatory measure in parallel with our application process. it is an unpopular, difficult, expensive tax. it is not easy to pass on, trace and then collect but, much more seriously than that, tax harmonisation has the effect of reducing tax competition and thereby reducing what would otherwise be the main incentive for downward pressure on rates. far from having harmonised rates of sales taxes across europe, i would go in the other direction. i would like to see regions within countries and localities being able to compete on the basis of different tax rates. that would of course require us to leave the european union, which some would say is a delicious bonus.
in writing. − i voted against this report as the common system of vat it outlines does little more than aid the eu’s own resources. to me vat is a form of extortion by the state, created to take money from ordinary working people for the state to spend on itself.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposed legislation from the commission to make it easier for member state governments to counter vat fraud. this is a serious problem and one which is often mentioned in the press and by my constituents in wales. it is very important that the eu is seen to be tackling fraud.
in writing. − i am in support of this report, which amends the 2006 directive. it will enable the eu to step up action against tax fraud and evasion. due to this report, member states would be able to quickly implement emergency measures in cases of sudden and massive fraud. this would be an improvement on the current situation where member states who want to counter incidents of fraud with measures not provided for under normal vat rules have to obtain a derogation from the vat directive. the report would allow the commission to grant a derogation within a month of the receipt of a complete request. thus member states would become more efficient in blocking fraud schemes and limiting losses.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this is an important proposal to step up eu action against tax fraud and evasion.
mr president, economic times are difficult and our people deserve politicians who tell them the truth, not just play party politics. i am very pleased to have voted with the centre-right majority on a proposal for growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. the left have stripped their names off this report, saying it is about cuts, cuts, cuts. it is not. this report actually calls for intensifying investment in areas such as research and innovation. it is also not about spend, spend, spend and going back to the policies of the past that the left wanted to take us to. we refused their demands to give parliament a say over how national governments make their budgets. i am pleased with that. they wanted us not only to work on tax evasion together, but to go towards tax harmonisation and we said ‘no’. they wanted us to condemn our national leaders, who are going into today’s budget negotiations looking for the same care in how money is spent at home as in europe. i actually say ‘well done’ to those leaders. it is public money, we are in difficult times and we need to be careful with it. so ‘no’ to the left and ‘yes’ to the right.
mr president, i have a conceptual problem with the idea of this economic harmonisation. it takes away what ought to be the main pressure on a government to reform and be competitive. you can raise your taxes up to a certain level before the money starts fleeing to friendlier jurisdictions, your revenues go down and you find that you have to correct it. you can give your workforce the most generous entitlements – paternity leave, maternity leave, holidays and maximum working days – up to a certain point before the factories start closing and the jobs start fleeing abroad. one way of thinking of the european union is that it is an attempt to prevent that process by allowing each country to export its high costs to its competitors. now that might have been a feasible model 50 years ago when the main competition was coming from southern and eastern europe. it is plainly not a feasible model when the main competition is coming from china, india, south america and the rest of it, which is why western europe’s share of world gdp has halved in the last 40 years and will halve again in the next 20 years. the only way out of this mess is to allow people to compete.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i believe that the member states are perfectly capable of managing austerity measures in such a way that they do not hinder employment measures, growth-promoting policies and social protection, without the commission’s interference. i loathe to see the commission exert control over areas such as labour tax and wage-setting.
in writing. − i voted against this report, which is one of the two on this subject. my group voted against it in committee because it does not reflect the priorities of my party, the party of wales, in dealing with economic co-ordination.
in writing. − the ecr uk delegation voted in favour of this report as we support the tone of the report which reflects many ecr and uk conservative priorities such as; the need for budgetary consolidation, structural reforms, implementation of the services directive, single market in general, free trade and open markets: recital y also explicitly says that low taxation systems improve tax compliance. our policy is to work constructively with the eurozone member states to strengthen the euro and improve the economic situation in their countries.
in writing. − along with my s&d colleagues i do not support this report. many of our aims for the report, for example that labour market legislation should protect those employed and include young people, were not achieved. therefore i do not support the overall report.
in writing. − i support the conclusions of the independent annual growth survey (iags), which concludes that the current state of austerity measures that are being applied across europe are self-defeating and unable to bring back growth to europe. the iags proposes to slow down the pace of adjustment within the limits of the revised stability and growth pact, instead of the conclusions of this report.
in writing. − i voted against because the report did not sufficiently address the fact that current austerity measures mechanisms do not work and are detrimental to the quality of life of eu citizens.
in writing. − i was able to vote in favour of this report, as opposed to the other report on the semester. the annual growth survey sets the economic, social and budgetary priorities for the year. the priorities have stayed the same and include tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the economic crisis. i believe the priorities reflect some of our priorities for the welsh economy.
in writing. − i support this report as it has key points on growth friendly fiscal consolidation and investment in training and education included within the text. the report again calls for greater democratic legitimacy and transparency in the process around how the annual growth survey proposals are put together. the report also criticises short term austerity policies which i believe are damaging europe. there is a message in this report of a more measured approach focused on growth rather than savage cuts. it also emphasises the importance of the youth guarantee.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report because of its focus on jobs and growth. london is in dire need of a response to austerity, with thousands of young people struggling to find their first job, and many more people who have families to feed and are struggling to make ends meet.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the report stresses again the importance of the youth guarantee, the vital need to tackle youth unemployment, the preservation of quality public services, and the need to invest in education and training.
in writing. − i believe that this own-initiative report, based on the employment and social aspects of the european commission’s annual growth survey, includes some very important recommendations. investment in training and education is vital in order to achieve eu2020 targets that focus on growth and jobs. the commission must focus on initiatives such as the youth guarantee and avoid drastic austerity measures. employment and social issues are vitally important and i believe that full use should be made of eu funds, with investment targeted towards creating new jobs and economic growth.
mr president, for the british conservatives the single market is the backbone of the european union. as such it is integral to the existence of the union, offering 500 million people in the world’s largest economic bloc the right to trade freely and competitively. against the backdrop of the financial crisis a strong comprehensive single market is required now more than ever and can only be achieved through a framework of strong governance and leadership. but let us be clear. the single market is an economic concept; it is not intended to deal with social issues. although they are important topics to monitor and address, matters of welfare and social security lie outside the remit of the single market’s ultimate goal of promoting economic growth and full employment. what the single market needs now is better and more structured governance with a commitment to less bureaucratic red tape and a strong economy. such an enhancement will benefit all the eu’s member states.
in writing. − i am completely against rhetoric about how good the eu and its governance is for growth, and how member states need to be told what to do. the recommendations outlined in this report further bind the uk to a single market that is hugely detrimental to british businesses.
in writing. − i supported this own initiative report calling for a legislative framework to improve the governance of the single market. the market is of great value to welsh companies and to our economy as a whole. the more access to information we can provide and the less the administrative burden the better. there should be better consultation and dialogue with civil society and with local and national authorities within member states. the report emphasises the vital role of governments and at sub-state level in delivering public services.
in writing. − i support this report along with my s&d colleagues. following the economic crisis the commission presented a communication on the governance of the single market where it proposes a twofold approach to improve the implementation and enforcement of single market rules. this suggests improving the ‘governance cycle’ and swift progress in key areas. however the rapporteur considers these measures are not far reaching enough and had suggested action in four other areas.
in writing. − a properly functioning single market – economically, environmentally and socially balanced – constitutes a key pillar of the european semester given its huge potential for growth, employment and social cohesion. for this reasón i voted for the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the report calls for better coordination within the commission and the introduction of the single market test to measure the impact of new legislation at national level on the single market.
in writing. − i support the recommendations in this report on the commission’s proposals on ensuring better enforcement of single market legislation. at a time when eu member states are looking to overcome economic difficulties, the single market is vital for citizens and businesses. the single market has provided eu citizens with huge benefits such as enhanced employment rights and should now be harnessed as a key driver for promoting jobs and growth and to restore competitiveness. following on from the commission’s communication on better governance of the single market, this report suggests that the measures should go further towards the completion of the single market. i also believe that further extending the single market into areas like digital, energy and financial sectors must be seriously looked at as a further means of making economic progress.
in writing. − i voted against this for the simple reason that i am against the eu’s involvement in the un human rights mechanisms and, in particular, the unhrc. i do not see the value in the member states engaging in such participation.
in writing. − i support this resolution. it is important because it takes note of the ongoing process of confirming eu priorities for the 22nd session of the united nations human rights council. it welcomes the focus given by the eu to the situation in syria, burma/myanmar, the democratic people’s republic of korea (dprk) and mali. it also endorses the focus on thematic issues such as freedom of thought, religion and belief, the abolition of the death penalty, the rights of the child, business and human rights, violence against women and lgbti rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour as i believe these resolutions present an important step taken forward by the united nations human rights council in its work.
in writing. − the ecr group wholeheartedly supports the work and promotion of human rights throughout the eu and the world, as well as the work of the unhrc. it is essential that europe along with its international partners works to promote freedom, equality and democracy for all. the ecr group voted in favour of this report, and supports the parliament's position with regard to the arab spring, lgbt rights, the rights of religious minorities, freedom fighters, the fight for equality for women and the protection of children around the world, amongst others. however, the ecr does believe that there has been excessive criticism directed at democratic members of the unhrc; we cannot accept paragraphs 31 and 32, aimed at israel, in particular. we also believe that certain issues are the preserve of member states, such as social rights and migrant workers, and that the death penalty in democratic nations is a matter of conscience for each member of parliament.
in writing. − this resolution suggests priorities for the 22nd session of the united nations human rights council that will run between 25 february and 22 march 2013. i strongly support human rights principles while remaining cautious about international legal mechanisms which may override national legislation in democratic countries. however, the awful reality is that in so many other countries – syria, north korea, iran, are among the more egregious examples – human rights are virtually non existent. it is misplaced and unfortunate however that sri lanka – a democratic country recovering from a 30-year terrorist campaign – should attract critical reference. there is distortion of post-conflict events in sri lanka by those that have a vested interest in continuing discontent and turbulence. i support reconciliation, the independence of the judiciary, accountability of those who may have committed atrocities, and the development of a free, united and prosperous country now that the shadow of terrorism has been removed in sri lanka. it is inappropriate for the resolution to draw on the report of an informal ‘panel of experts’ on sri lanka – the darusman report – which did not even visit sri lanka.
mr president, duplication and redundancy is a plague amongst many of our national governments. in an international organisation such as the eu, we must be even more vigilant in avoiding repetition and in streamlining our efforts. efforts to promote a european judicial standard are already under way in the area of civil law. we have no need now for new programmes to duplicate these efforts. measures have already been taken to coordinate and simplify cross-border legal issues, and programmes repeating these efforts would be unnecessary and fiscally irresponsible at a time of austerity. existing efforts to increase coordination between our respective national courts share the same goals and set a sufficient judicial standard without compromising the national legal traditions of individual member states. complete harmonisation is therefore not needed with regard to national judiciaries and in fact would violate national sovereignty. with regard to the proposed network of court coordinators, the initiative would be redundant in the light of existing programmes and would threaten subsidiarity in the united kingdom, so my group and my party did not support this proposal.
in writing. − i do not support the holistic approach to law outlined in this report – the uk has its own legal system and we would like to stick to that common law system. i simply cannot agree with the notion that uk courts be referred to as eu courts.
in writing. − i support this resolution. it is important because it aims to foster a culture of discussion, contact building, channels of communication and mutual confidence amongst judges across europe. this would allow competent authorities and experts to discuss judicial training policy and the future of the legal profession in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour as i believe judicial training for court coordinators is important as it will improve their performance and overall knowledge of the judicial systems.
in writing. − this report encourages the eib to further the eu’s socialist and cultural agenda, which is at odds with a free market and tax competition. in doing so, the eu will expose the public purse to the risk of investing in public enterprise. i voted against
in writing. − the european investment bank is the biggest public bank in the world. in recent years we in wales have been able to work with the bank to help support schemes for employment and training. i voted in favour of this annual report and welcome the reference that the activities of the bank should support europe's transition to a more sustainable economy.
in writing. − although this report contains some useful proposals it also advocates unwarranted and unnecessary measures which expose the european economy to undue risk. in particular the call for the commencement of the second phase of the project bonds initiative, before the pilot phase has been completed or assessed, is reckless. i do not believe in leveraging the eu budget via special purpose vehicles, which in this instance is the european investment bank. this project is an experiment which needs to be carried out under very strict terms and conditions, as agreed in the pilot phase, by previous regulation passed by this parliament. it should be considered a genuine pilot project which is then evaluated and assessed to see whether the financial risk undertaken is of benefit to the eu tax payer. it would be pre-emptive and irresponsible to prejudge the outcome and begin the second phase of this initiative without significant study which is why i can’t support this proposal.
in writing. − i support this resolution. it is important because the european investment bank should not be exposed to financial interventions that would normally come under the investment section of a public budget. the bank needs to maintain its aaa rating.
in writing. − i voted in favour as i think it is a coherent and comprehensive annual report.
author. − mr president, the circumstances of mr somphone’s disappearance are really striking in that he disappeared in front of a police post and under the gaze of security cameras. my group, the liberals and democrats, share their fears – fears that are shared by the united nations and many international human rights organisations – that sombath somphone’s disappearance is an enforced disappearance and almost certainly related to his work. we are deeply concerned by the lack of progress and information regarding investigations by the lao authorities into the facts of his disappearance. it is absolutely crucial that the lao authorities take all necessary steps to end the practice of arbitrary arrests and secret detention. it is also urgent that they make enforced disappearance a criminal offence. enforced disappearances are not only a problem in laos; we have had a number of cases come to us which have been the subject of urgencies across many countries. they are a clear violation of basic human rights and fundamental freedoms, the core values of the european union.
mr president, the mysterious disappearance of sombath somphone, who is a well-known critic and dissident in laos, is a deep tragedy indeed and, from the video footage, it is widely suspected that the security service or the police may be involved, but proof of course is lacking. laos was once a beautiful and peaceful monarchy and now it is a one-party authoritarian communist state so i welcome lady ashton’s statement on behalf of the eu. the vientiane government must now be put on notice that the international community is aware of this tragic case and will keep the pressure up until his whereabouts are known and he is released.
author. − mr president, it is an oft-peddled cliché that zimbabwe travelled in the course of a few years from bread-basket to basket case. certainly 10 years ago it stared into an economic abyss as mugabe’s tyrannical regime impoverished, suppressed and exploited his own people. the days of hyperinflation and land expropriation now appear to be over, but few are claiming that the zanu-mdc coalition has brought real positive changes to the country or that the expropriated farmers have been adequately compensated, some of whom live in my constituency of london. mugabe, now approaching 90 years old and in power for 33 years, continues to oppress dissidents, both in the political realm and in civil society. the zimbabwe and human rights commission is unable to freely go about its work, while ngos continue to be raided and obstructed and human rights activists are harassed and arrested. as this resolution makes clear, the corrupted justice system still overwhelmingly favours zanu-pf. let us therefore encourage zimbabwean organisations in their human rights work and do all we can in this house to pressure the government to release all those human rights activists who are detained.
author. − mr president, the situation in zimbabwe with the increase in intimidation, arbitrary arrests, judicial harassment, disappearances of human rights activists and also, of course, of political opponents of robert mugabe and his zanu-pf is extremely worrying. unfortunately, i have to say that it is not particularly surprising. we are now in the run-up to an election in zimbabwe and if we look back at history over the last few elections, we saw exactly the same sort of thing happening, with zanu-pf repressing political opposition, and i have to say that this is absolutely unacceptable. now freedom of assembly and freedom of association and expression are essential components of any democracy, and are particularly so when a democracy is preparing for an election. i am often asked what the european parliament in the european union can do to defend human rights and fundamental freedoms around the world. well, we can do a bit by raising awareness in debates like this today, but we have to follow this up with some diplomatic pressure. however, we can also use the tools which are at our disposal. for instance in the case of eu development cooperation, this has been currently suspended, so this is the sort of pressure we can and are using. in many cases we also use strong human rights clauses in trade agreements, and i have to say that i deplore the fact that our partnership agreement with zimbabwe is still lacking such a strong clause and i suggest that we try at the next opportunity to put that right.
mr president, i should like to make a point of order to you in your capacity as chair because in previous debates other presidents in the chair have refused blue cards for the catch-the-eye session. they say these should be allowed only with the main speakers. the reason i ask is because i have to catch a train very shortly, and the timing of the whole thing has been drawn out extensively as a result of the very interesting catch-the-eye procedures with blue cards lately. can we know in future whether blue cards are permitted during the catch-the-eyes or not? you seem to think that they are, and fine, i like that, but other presidents take a different view.
author. − mr president, the case of medical workers being brutally murdered in pakistan simply for trying to protect children from a crippling disease – polio – exposes the moral bankruptcy at the heart of the taliban. in their quest to subjugate women and spread lies about vaccinations making muslim children infertile, they have not only further poisoned the political outlook in pakistan, but potentially put a generation of children at risk of disease for the sake of their vicious and distorted dogma. anything that appears to threaten their power or their distorted world view must, in their eyes, be eliminated. as usual, it is the poorest and most vulnerable members of society who suffer the consequences. pakistan is one of the very few countries in which polio remains endemic. if children in europe no longer need to endure this dreadful illness, pakistani children should not have to either. we must therefore do all we can in the european union to assist pakistani civil society in its worthy aims and to prevent the wretched taliban claiming any more lives in their pursuit of a toxic doctrine.
author. − mr president, first of all i would like to express my condolences to the families of the medical aid workers who were killed in these recent attacks in pakistan. on behalf of the liberals and democrats, i strongly condemn these attacks. these medical aid workers were involved in a polio-eradication campaign to immunise 33 million children in pakistan. this is really important because, as other speakers have mentioned, there are only three countries in the world where polio is still endemic and this is a major contribution to eradicating polio worldwide. now these attacks are very worrying not only because they have become more prevalent – and they have – but also because they particularly target girls (i am thinking of malala yousufzai in this respect), women and aid workers. it is also because they reflect this false link being made by the militants between aid workers and the ruling power and the military and the forces of the west. what we are seeing here is propaganda being put out by the taliban and their allies that the aid workers are spies and they are attempting to sterilise muslim children. this is absolutely terrible and we really need to correct this view. in this respect i call on the vibrant media and civil society that we see in pakistan, along with the government of pakistan, to step up their efforts in communicating about the independence of the medical aid workers. they need a humanitarian space in which to operate, so we really need to counter these rumours and certainly welcome the recent efforts of the government of pakistan to ensure their safety during the medical campaigns. we have seen some progress in this respect and it needs to be continued. i also strongly hope that a formal invitation letter for european election observers will be sent as soon as possible in order for the european union to send electoral observation support, because a free and fair election, which is just round the corner – we only have a few weeks now before parliament dissolves – is crucial for the stability and security of pakistan and the region as a whole. stability and security in the general sense are vital if we are going to help stop these attacks. so in that respect we do need security and we do need stability.
mr president, i would like to propose that the debates on the accession of serbia and kosovo be delayed not till april 2013, but to april 3000.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, concerning international women’s day, i pay tribute to women who take their own route. true equality is having the right to choose and not be judged for those choices, whether a director in a boardroom, a surgeon in a hospital, a part-time care assistant, a car mechanic or a housewife and mother, a woman has a right to make her own choices. one way to achieve this is to bring about an end to gender stereotypes. the reports we have been voting on cover some important issues relating to women’s rights. however, as in many cases, we find parliament crosses the red line into areas which are member state competencies. in addition, the reports have a vision of what a woman should be, and they come up with tools such as quotas to enforce this vision. in the process they undermine the ability of women to achieve, implying they need a helping hand up the ladder to succeed. yes, some women need support to give them confidence, some need guidance in terms of mentoring, but all need respect and belief in their ability to succeed in whichever path they take. so, on every international women’s day, may we all stand together to support women and respect their choices and the different approaches and paths they take towards their individual goals.
mr president, with the rise of the internet and the ease of access to information, there is growing concern about how women and, especially, young children can be exploited. we should be clear what we want to prevent and how policing the internet can work in practice. the internet watch foundation, based in my region, has an impressive record. it focuses specifically on child sexual abuse content and criminally obscene adult content. by sharing intelligence with the police, the iwf has aided the rescue of 12 children in the past two years. content, once reported, can usually be removed from the web within the hour if it is web-posted in the uk, but in other parts of the world it can take up to ten days. eleven colleagues from different countries and parts of this parliament will soon be launching a written declaration highlighting the global dimension of the fight against on-line child sexual abuse content, emphasising the importance of sharing information and expertise internationally. i am honoured to be one of the sponsors of the declaration and i urge colleagues to support this campaign so we can share best practice in the eu and across the globe.
in writing. – it is clear that gender inequality and gender stereotypes are still common problems in the eu today. the gender pay gap is high, thus the pension gap is also high. women are under-represented on company boards, under-represented in national governments and in parliaments too – including this one. reconciling work, family and private life is a huge problem for many women. more needs to be done at eu and national levels to tackle the many inbuilt barriers to equality of treatment, and i broadly support the calls in this report for more action to be taken. amidst the widespread press coverage on certain aspects of this report, there is perhaps a chance that sight could be lost of the important issues which it seeks to address. parliament should vote to remove some of more problematic aspects of the text and favour a final report which maintains a clear focus on tackling gender inequality wherever it exists.
blue-card question. – mr president, would even mr turmes – who i am sure is absolutely right to argue for greater energy efficiency – not accept that if we were sufficiently bold in making the switch from fossil fuels to green energy, then we would be able to do so without switching off the lights or without even having to save energy? there is as much sunshine hitting the desert in six hours as there is energy that we use in a whole year worldwide. there is enough power in the wind to power more than ten times all of our total needs. if we were able to be bold in making the switch, efficiency would be less important. we would be able to provide enough for everyone’s needs.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on her work. she has got some excellent points in the report although, inevitably, she had to include the european obsession with emissions reductions and global warming, even though there has been no global warming for 17 years. i am very glad to see that the report is open to established technologies including coal, gas, oil, lignite and nuclear. i am encouraged that gas remains prominent, especially in view of the shale gas opportunity, and i am pleased to see the concerns expressed about energy prices, competitiveness and fuel poverty. however, we in my party cannot accept the excessive reliance on renewables, which do not deliver, are unnecessary and unaffordable. we cannot accept the emissions trading scheme, which is a huge failure and is unnecessary and unaffordable. we cannot approve of carbon capture and storage, which is a pipedream and is unnecessary and unaffordable, and we cannot support calls for global climate action, which is not going to happen and is in any case unaffordable and unnecessary. i am trying to persuade my colleagues to agree to abstain on this report as a courtesy to the rapporteur, but i fear we cannot support it.
mr president, tonight several hundred more british old-age pensioners will freeze to death. why? because of fuel poverty. because carbon profiteers, wind farm wide-boys and left-wing broadcast media like the bbc have conned and bullied and bribed mps and meps into believing – or pretending to believe – that man-made global warming is going to destroy the world. this modern version of an ancient religious fantasy is being used as an excuse for the biggest corporate scam in human history. carbon taxes make fortunes for the super rich while old mrs smith shivers to death. tonight, while out-of-touch politicians waffle on about unattainable targets that will de-industrialise europe, real people are dying one by one. there is a legal term for what the political elite are doing here: corporate manslaughter.
member of the commission. − madam president, in recent weeks i have addressed both parliament’s committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on 20 and 28 february 2013 respectively, on the subject of the discovery of horsemeat labelled as beef in certain processed food products in a number of member states. i am now glad to update you on the measures we have taken, or are planning to initiate in the near future. let me emphasise that today – just over one month after the first findings came to light – the situation remains that this scandal does not point to a public health or food safety crisis. i am adding ‘up till now’ of course because, as i shall say later, we are also carrying out further inspections on the health aspect. so this scandal, serious though it is, is not up till now a food safety issue like the food safety issues we have had in the recent past. the issue remains one of fraudulent labelling, not one of safety. as you will know, food business operators are primarily responsible for ensuring that the requirements of european food law are met, while member states are responsible for ensuring the proper day-to-day enforcement of eu rules. it is the responsibility of member states to check whether or not the product presents a risk and whether it complies with applicable legislation. we then have other tools, like the eu’s rapid alert system for food and feed, popularly known as rasff, through which any notification or alert made by any member state is immediately communicated to all member states – as has happened with this issue. in the current scandal, findings of horsemeat labelled as beef in certain processed food products were immediately communicated to all member states through the eu’s rapid alert system. so our traceability systems worked well – enabling member states’ authorities to establish quickly who had done what, where and when. all member states are carrying out now the agreed dna testing for horsemeat in beef products and testing for the absence of phenylbutazone, popularly known as bute, in horsemeat – in accordance with the recommendation supported by the member states and adopted by the commission on 19 february 2013. the first alert was given on 8 february by the british authorities. on 13 february there was an emergency meeting of the member states affected by this issue. on 15 february there was the recommendation before the standing committee on the food chain and the member states agreed to these inspections, and the recommendation was adopted on 19 february 2013. these tests will continue throughout the month of march and the member states will inform the commission immediately of any positive findings and provide an overview of the results by 15 april 2013. finally, a report will be published shortly afterwards. i said immediately when this crisis erupted that, to regain credibility, we have to not only carry out the inspections but also to commit ourselves, before the inspections, to making the results public. in addition, fraud investigations are being coordinated by europol – and all member states have been asked to keep europol contact points fully informed of developments. let me stress that only the strictest and most complete transparency can begin to repair the damage done to consumer confidence. looking at the broader picture, it is evident that our legislation is fundamentally sound. the existence of fraud does not question the validity or the essence of the rules themselves. the problems lie in the implementation of the legislation and not in the legislation itself. as with any food-related scandal, crisis or scare, we are duty bound to learn lessons and, if necessary, consider appropriate changes in the light of experience. the horsemeat scandal will be no exception. public confidence has been badly shaken. part of the reassurance that we can provide lies in the way we respond: swiftly using the effective tools at our disposal, and analysing data without delay. indeed, the commission is already considering how we might further strengthen our rules and controls in three areas that have attracted particular attention: sanctions, the level of controls and origin labelling. firstly, the importance of proper controls and dissuasive sanctions to enforce our legislation has come to the forefront. under the current directives, the old requirement is that member states have to apply appropriate and dissuasive sanctions. the forthcoming proposal, which was drafted long before the scandal, to review the rules on official controls across the food chain will require member states to establish financial penalties applicable to intentional violations of food chain rules – but i believe that these penalties should reflect the economic gain which is made by those who fraudulently violate eu legislation. in other words, only the prospect of losing more than what the illicit activities could bring can serve as an effective deterrent. secondly, some have called for more official controls along the food chain. the forthcoming proposal on the official control rules will indeed bring significant improvements and will include not only the possibility for the commission to require member states to implement coordinated control plans of limited duration to ascertain the existence of shortcomings along the chain, but also the powers necessary to establish permanent specific control requirements in cases of newly-identified risks. even in the current scandal, all the commission could do was recommend a control plan which i know most member states or all member states are implementing, but it is not actually legally binding. thirdly, as we know, some member states and also members of this assembly are calling for mandatory country of origin labelling. i have made it absolutely clear publicly that this issue is not directly related to this scandal. this scandal would have erupted even if we had country of origin labelling. however, there is a swelling number of member states which believe that we should grasp this opportunity to introduce mandatory country of origin labelling not only for fresh beef and fresh meat products which already exist, but also for processed food. incidentally, long before this scandal erupted, the commission was already obliged under eu legislation to study this issue by the end of the current year. a report is due by the end of this year. i have undertaken to accelerate the publishing of this report, which will now be made available at the beginning of the autumn. this report must take on origin labelling of processed food as well. this report must take into account the need for the consumer to be informed, the feasibility for a mandatory origin indication, and an analysis of the costs and benefits, as well as the impact on the internal market and on international trade. as i said before the committees, i have an open mind on this issue even though it is not the direct cause of this scandal and i will react accordingly after the report is out. so even though ‘country of origin labelling’ would not have prevented the current horsemeat scandal, i shall consider this report as soon as possible. i shall try and get the report published as soon as possible and then communicate any developments to this parliament. let me conclude by emphasising that public confidence is a fragile concept which can all so easily evaporate. therefore, i have urged member states to step up their investigations – and there have been some results in the criminal investigations which have been conducted – and to ensure the immediate circulation of any new information, so we can establish the full facts of this matter as quickly as possible. i must say that up till now i am satisfied with the level of cooperation by the member states. i cannot overemphasise how important it is that we take on board the relevant lessons arising out of this scandal, and i am sure you share my determination to restore full confidence in our food chain as soon as possible. i have publicly stated that we have one of the best food safety systems in the world and i keep on saying so. this does not mean that we cannot fine-tune, and this does not mean that we cannot learn lessons from crises past and present. we should never rest on our laurels, because the fact that we have one of the best food safety systems in the world does not mean that we might not lose that pole position if we are complacent. i count on the cooperation and support of this parliament and the member states to this end.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i welcome much of what the commissioner has said this morning. in particular, commissioner, what you have said about accelerating the study on the labelling of meat in processed food. now, you have said that this was not the cause of the crisis; of course it was not, but when parliament voted for this two years ago we did so because we wanted companies to take responsibility for their own supply chains, to understand their supply chains. by labelling they would not be able to pass the buck as they are at the moment. i think consumers have been genuinely shocked at the nature of the current supply chain: abattoir in one country, meat-cutting somewhere else, sent across europe, back again. it seems that there are too many middlemen, too many people in the middle, and we have lost the ‘farm to fork’ controls we thought we had after the bse crisis. so i hope that you will look very seriously at this. when we asked for this before, the commission and the council said it would be too costly: but how much have governments now spent and companies now spent since the horsemeat scandal erupted? commissioner, you have also told us that the current system is fundamentally sound, yet many people are saying to me that the changes made in 2006 by the meat hygiene laws actually reduce the number of inspections, particularly in meat-cutting plants, and that since 2006 we no longer have everyday inspections by meat inspectors. instead, we only have announced inspections and only three-monthly or six-monthly inspections of meat-cutting plants. it is in meat-cutting plants where it seems this scandal erupted. now, you are supposed to be bringing out a new food-hygiene revision this year, commissioner, and i want to know from you what is going to be in that revision, because in the newspapers in britain they are saying that you are going to propose further self-regulation by the food industry, that you are going to give them even more responsibility. can consumers have confidence? this is a crisis of consumer confidence, commissioner, and we look to you to make sure that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, one of my first acts as a member of parliament here some 14 years ago was to host a meeting about another food crisis, between some cumbrian beef farmers from my region and your predecessor, who was entirely sympathetic to their cause and wanted to support them in getting member states to take action, but pointed out that the commission had no army, had no police force. it was, as you said, dependent upon the member states to enforce the law in the first instance. now, i have reflected upon this many times over the years, and i keep thinking of those words which we see in so many pieces of legislation: effective, proportionate and dissuasive. your director-general has said to the committee that we have the best food labelling laws in the world, but they do not count for very much unless member states actually put them into practice. we have penalties in different member states that differ. we have procedures for ensuring compliance that differ. we have a different approach being taken to potential prosecutions, and we have sentences being laid down by national courts that differ. now on the one hand, i think the public expects european laws to be enforced equally and effectively in every member state. otherwise people say ‘why should i comply if they are not?’ on the other hand, we have the difficult problem that the european union should not be imposing common criminal penalties upon member states. this is not just an issue, of course, for your department – it is one for many other sectors of the commission – but it needs to be brought into the open. there needs to be more discussion and more analysis of the way in which member states are actually putting legislation into effect, not simply in terms of the statute, but also in the way in which their courts and their prosecuting bodies then interpret that statute. this is because, unless we do this, unless we bring this out into the open and unless we decide to name and shame and have discussions in the council and the parliament, then we will not ensure equal application of the law. failure to do so brings the law into disrepute and frankly renders the work of all us invalid.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i think there is no doubt that consumer confidence has been seriously shaken by this horsemeat scandal. as always in these types of situations, there can be a good point as well, and the good point is that in many areas people are returning to the local butcher’s shop. they are clearly sending the message that when they buy, they want to know what they are buying. i think this is to be welcomed. i am in favour of better and effective labelling, but i have to say that, with all the labelling in the world, if the criminals are out there and they want to beat the system, it will not matter what labelling you put on it unless you have the proper inspections as well. in my opinion, this happened for two reasons: because the processing chain is far too long, and because of the pressure by retailers on the food industry to bring down prices and provide so-called ‘cheap food’. let me say this very clearly in this house today: there is no such thing as cheap food. good food costs money.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, thirteen years ago the british government stupidly allowed the eu to have competence in all aspects of food law. what has been uncovered in recent weeks is a demonstration of gross incompetence which has resulted in british people eating the meat of horses when they believed they were eating beef. the paper trail system that the eu has adopted to ensure the provenance of produce is wide open to fraud, and as the eu becomes ever larger it expands into countries where fraud and corruption are a simple fact of life. under our previous system in the uk, where food was regularly tested and inspected, the substitution of horse for beef would have been quickly detected. it is depressing to note that many of our own british members of parliament assumed that our secretary of state for agriculture had the authority to act decisively in this matter, when in reality he is as impotent as a bullock or a gelding.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the commission has stated that, regardless of the legislation in place, there will always be criminals seeking to cheat the system in the pursuit of cheap profit. doubtless this is true – but that does not mean that, as regulators, we should allow it to continue. we have, as you have said, a responsibility to make any criminal activity – especially in the food supply chain – as difficult as possible to do. although the eu can claim to have one of the most developed traceability systems in the world, it is clearly not 100% fit for purpose in the processing sector, as other members have outlined. the report you mentioned should deal with mandatory country- as well as region-of-origin-labelling systems for meat products, including frozen or processed meats. i say this because such a process would ensure that there was a stronger onus on supermarkets to take responsibility for their supply chain. we need to take full account of the specific characteristics of the member states, thereby allowing beef for regions in the north of ireland to be identified as irish if producers so wish, or scottish beef to retain its scottish labelling, which would aid traceability in general and prevent scandals such as this from occurring again.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, may i thank our rapporteurs, louis grech and róża thun, for their work on adr and odr. i would also like to thank them on behalf of my colleague, malcolm harbour, who apologises for not being with us today. these reports add value to the single market, ensuring proper coverage of consumer redress across the eu. we have made sure that procedural rules do not endanger existing systems, such as the successful uk financial services scheme. indeed, the adr directive and odr regulation will complement them, not replace them. adr offers a low cost alternative to formal legal action for both traders and consumers alike. it is an efficient way of resolving disputes, and i hope coverage across the eu improves rapidly. both reports were improved during the committee stage and during trialogue. procedural rules have been made more flexible, to respect existing systems, and member states have more discretion on implementation. my group is pleased with these reports and we will support them in the vote later today.
madam president, thank you to the rapporteurs for their hard work. i welcome this first reading agreement. although i would have preferred the proposal to go further, this is a compromise and a fair conclusion. the rapporteur and other speakers have rightly emphasised the need for one set of rules reflecting both the offline and online realities covering our 27 member states and empowering our 500 million citizens: one set of rules, 27 countries, 500 million people. therefore, we should firstly attempt to ensure that we reduce, year by year, the figure of one in five eu citizens incurring problems when they buy goods and services, before we look at odr and adr. if a consumer has to go down the odr or adr route, they require clear information, and that has been broadly spoken about today. people have spoken about the issue of language access, but i also want to emphasise that it is accessible in all formats – examples for people who are partially sighted. once the odr/adr system is in place, i think we should also monitor what cases are coming before it in order that we can analyse that and see if there are any patterns where we can also improve our action. i welcome these proposals and i thank those who have been involved in creating them.
madam president, dispute resolutions are self-evidently beneficial. most disputes with retailers over goods and services would not be worth taking to court, which means, of course, that consumer complaints would not be considered and unscrupulous traders would take advantage of this. of course, of the various forms of adr, arbitration is undoubtedly the best, because at least it guarantees an early conclusion. i have a greater problem with the underlying motive for these measures. it is not primarily to improve consumer rights, but to facilitate online cross-border trade in manufactured goods. this will undoubtedly affect adversely the manufacturing sectors of the higher wage economies of the west and the retail sectors of the west. nevertheless, they will benefit consumers buying products at home as well as abroad.
blue-card question. – violence and incitement to violence must of course be recognised as thoroughly despicable criminal acts. however, it appears that racism and xenophobia go beyond violence. can you define these terms? i asked the commission and the council to do so and they were not able to. is it not absurd to try to criminalise something that cannot be defined?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, racism, xenophobia and hate crime have at times formed a dark part of europe’s history, yet the fight against them is something which lies at the very heart of what the european union does best. this is an area where we must never believe that the job is done. it is something which we must constantly re-examine, address and take action on. europe is facing a time of social, economic and security challenges, and during such times people look for someone to blame and for things to be afraid of. this uncertainty and fear is often then fed upon by populism and our media. that is why politicians must not be afraid to talk about the issue, to keep educating and to realise that addressing racism and inequalities is not about creating more legislation, but about achieving real equality in hearts and minds and by bringing religions and communities together. however, condemning a whole nation – as some people seem to be doing this morning – for the views of a few citizens is simply not acceptable. we do not want to hear the arguments this morning relating to either political positions or attitudes to individual countries that are members of this union. we want to talk about the subject. i hope i have done so, and i hope others will do so during the course of this debate. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – we all know that these instances occur in a number of member states; indeed all our member states have this problem. that is why i want politicians to continue talking about these matters and educating their populations. it does nothing whatsoever to aid our debate today on this very important subject for individuals, sometimes from a political point of view, but sometimes wishing to criticise other countries where they do not reside themselves or of which they are not citizens, to bring this matter into a specific. it does not help us at all. we are helped by general discussion and improving standards wherever they may need to be improved, throughout europe.
mr president, in january the irish presidency delivered a very strong statement asking the eu to counter hate crime, racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia and homophobia and highlighted the need for better data collection. that very mundane issue of data collection in fact is very important. it was about the very real human suffering on many streets around the european union where people suffer hate crime – the reality of what it means to be different and to be violated. that is the reality of what we are discussing here today: being a community of values but understanding that, even at european union level, there is something that can be done. it is a very remarkable thing to hear the commission and the commissioner talk about what has been achieved in the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia and what can be achieved in the race equality directive, in the employment directive and all the tools that we have had in this house to deal with anti-discrimination – but the fundamental issue is that it has not been implemented in the way that we have wanted. that is the issue for us in this house today: implement what we have, implement the tools that we have developed in this house and that many members in this house have worked very hard to deal with. then we will have something that we can be proud of and that this resolution has focused on today. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, can he repeat the question? i really did not understand it. (the president said that it was not a blue-card question)
mr president, the commissioner has a brilliant record on defending fundamental values. let me therefore state the obvious. the eu bans racist and xenophobic hate crime and hate speech because it brings a common eu approach to a common phenomenon. it ensures that the same behaviour means the same offence in all member states and therefore means that penalties are equally effective, proportionate and dissuasive across the entire european union. lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people fall victim to hate speech and hate crime every day in europe and therefore have the same need to see the sanctions equalised across the european union. last year, in the united kingdom alone – a tolerant country of over 60 million people – 2 300 hate crimes were recorded against lgbt people. so how many homophobic and transphobic hate crimes are there every year in an eu of half a billion people and less tolerant countries? therefore, mrs reding, mrs malmström and in particular the irish presidency, i ask you this. once the fundamental rights agency publishes its landmark report on homophobia and transphobia in may, will you take these results into account in deciding whether to include sexual orientation and gender identity in the list of protected grounds for hate crime?
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for its work in fighting racism and xenophobia and to commend the work of the european union’s fundamental rights agency in vienna, which i visited last month. in hard times, extra vigilance is essential. many colleagues have drawn attention to problems in south-eastern europe, but i hope the commission will not overlook challenges in western europe. in a recent by-election in the united kingdom, the united kingdom independence party put out leaflets claiming that 29 million bulgarians and romanians will come to the united kingdom next year. their canvassers on the doorsteps were far worse, arousing atavistic anguish and fanning the flames of fear. the reality is that mr farage’s party, represented in this house, is a xenophobic, anti-immigrant party which needs to be exposed and treated as such.
madam president, there are many people who are unhappy with your call on no 32 and you have proceeded to ignore them. can you go back and check 32, please?
madam president, earlier on i wanted to make a point of order. i am glad the commissioner is still here; it concerns a point of procedure, and perhaps the commissioner will be interested in listening. i have no issue with the fact that the commission – before votes – may want to make a brief comment, and on this occasion clearly the commissioner had an extremely important statement to make, which had both very complicated and complex content. why i would like the commission to listen to what i am saying is that, when they do have lengthy statements to make before the president tries to get the votes done, time should be made on the agenda before the voting session so that the commissioner him- or herself can come before the house – it could have been yesterday evening or this morning – to explain what they wanted to say. that was the reason i made the point of order. i hope the commission can take this on board: a brief one-minute statement is not a problem but a 10-minute, complicated statement is, and then we end up with very bad behaviour (which is not appropriate) but also the frustration of the rest of the house. i thank you for allowing me to speak and to make this point of order.
madam president, i just wanted to let the commissioner know that i was shocked and horrified by the behaviour of certain meps from my country. their behaviour does not represent the views of the british conservative party. because of the challenges we have in energy security, energy investment – especially in infrastructure – is extremely important. in my amendments to this report, i call for consideration to be given to flexibility and robustness and for cost-effectiveness. i am disappointed that the commission could not support my amendments to help investment in infrastructure in the current review we are doing on bank capital ratios, but we do need to have public investment which is well-targeted. eu money should only be used where there is eu added value.
madam president, one of the great gifts of europe to human civilisation was the ideal of democratic self-government, of government of, by, and for the people. of course, we cannot do that except within units of agreed people and that means allowing people to choose which country they belong to. i was delighted by the result of the referendum in the falkland islands. i look forward to many referendums on which country people want to belong to in europe and i hope that, as in the falkland islands, and unlike what we have done in the past, we will respect the result of such referendums.
in writing. − while i welcome the trans-european energy infrastructure project, i do not feel that this proposal looks at the future of european energy. although the proposal contains some positive language relating to energy efficiency, i chose to abstain as it does not fully comply with long-term climate and energy goals. i would like to see a proposal containing a clear objective, i.e. that projects have to demonstrate being in line with the 2050 climate and energy goals in order to avoid further fossil fuel lock-in. in wales we are looking at sustainable ways of generating energy using wind and water, for example. not only do fossil fuels damage the environment but they are running out. we need to develop a sustainable energy smart grid for europe to ensure that europe will be able to produce energy in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on an issue of absolute key importance. i represent a country which is at the very heart of the renewables revolution, and scotland is on target to have 100% of its electricity needs met from renewable sources. scotland has the potential to become a global leader in this field and, with the right infrastructure, the powerhouse of europe.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the new regulation is a positive and important initiative as it aims at accelerating the accomplishment of the internal energy market and at delivering on the eu’s energy policy and climate goals. it may contribute, through the mobilisation of very significant investments, to the re-launch of economic growth and job creation in the eu. the proposal envisages the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks. in electricity it aims at enhancing market integration and competitiveness, system security and integration of renewable sources of energy, coping with decentralised and non-dispatchable power generation through smart grids, connection to storage sites and electricity highways. in gas, energy security can be accomplished through the diversification of sources and routes for gas supply, liquefied natural gas (lng) storage and reverse flow pipelines. the proposal also supports the supply of crude oil to landlocked countries and the deployment of pipelines for carbon capture and storage to connect production and storage sites.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to ensure that in future satisfactory environmental impact assessments (eia) are carried out, particularly with regards to infrastructure development, and that there are adequate provisions in place for review procedures of eias. this is essential to protect the environment in wales and we have several current examples of where this has not been adequately carried out.
in writing. − i welcome the ombudsman’s special report, which highlights important issues relating to problems concerning the application of the eia directive and the conduct of the infringement proceedings.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr arsenis, for his hard work, without which we would not have got to the compromise that we have managed to achieve. i worked on this file, both in the committee on agriculture and rural development and in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i am glad to see that accounting for cropland management and grazing land management remain as voluntary for member states, as i believe that member states would struggle to cope with this alongside the inevitably huge upheaval of changing administration for a reformed cap. i also support the flexibility now in place for national action plans. the final position on these plans is more flexible, with an extended deadline and procedures in place that avoid the duplication of work. finally, i applaud the consistency between this text and other international climate change agreement texts. it is always a danger in this house that we invent our own rules and it is much better when we do as we have done on this file, staying in conformity with international agreements.
madam president, before i give this speech, could i just ask for a point of order or clarification? there are a number of people who have put in for a number of different reports, but you are not calling everyone. is that because you are selecting due to time pressures? i wonder whether you could answer that question.
madam president, i originally put in for the correia de campos report, but i can leave that to save time for everyone else and move on to the arsenis report. i will start now if that is ok. first of all, thank you very much for calling me to speak about this report. whatever one’s view on climate change and the destruction of our environment or the problems with our environment, it is quite clear that it is important that we monitor the use of some of the gases that could damage the environment. at the same time, i would ask our colleagues to be very careful and make sure that we do not use the green agenda as a form of protectionism. we hear complaints quite often from farmers in developing countries who say that we are developing new standards – sometimes sanitary and phytosanitary standards – to raise the bar for their exports to the eu when what we could be doing is helping them to create wealth in their local communities by exporting food and other products to us, and we complain about the way that they use their land even though it is not particularly damaging to the environment. that would be my first warning. but what i would ask, in general, is that, whatever our views on climate change and the green agenda, it is important that we find consensus in these areas so that we can gain the support of as many people as possible.
in writing. − i supported this proposal to integrate the land use, land use change and forestry sectors into the eu's climate policy. a legal framework ensuring harmonised rules and requirements will help to reduce carbon emissions. we have seen similar developments in wales, with increased co-operation between environmental bodies.
in writing. − the integration of land use, land use change and forestry into the union’s climate policy is an important step and i supported the compromise text.
in writing. − accounting for land use, land-use change and forestry (lulucf) is a key element in climate policy with the potential, among other things, to contribute to mitigation, adaptation, conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of natural resources. a first step towards incorporating lulucf sectors into the eu's reduction efforts and ensuring complementarity among union policies is to establish robust rules to account for emissions and removals occurring from lulucf activities. in this respect, lulucf accounting within the european union should be driven by three overarching objectives: to facilitate compliance with the independent international obligations of member states and the european union as parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol; to provide policy coherence with existing and contemplated union legislation for future coordination and integration, including but not limited to the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive; and to ensure that accounting practices and methodologies conform to accepted principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy – not only within member states but among them as members of the european union.
in writing. − it is important to account for the climate impact of the forestry and agricultural sectors, as these lands cover more than three-quarters of eu territory and naturally hold large stocks of carbon, preventing its escape into the atmosphere. the agreement arising from this report calls for mandatory accounting rules for a broad scope of processes which affect the environment, ensuring that we can keep a proper track of the effects of development on our natural environment, and so help to reverse the effects of climate change.
madam president, i had originally hoped to speak on the correia de campos report but i can leave that, in order to save time for everyone else, and move on to the arsenis report. first of all, thank you very much for calling me to speak about this report. whatever one’s view on climate change and the destruction of our environment, or the problems with our environment, it is quite clear that it is important to monitor the use of some of the gases that could damage the environment. at the same time, i would ask our colleagues to be very careful and make sure that we do not use the green agenda as a form of protectionism. we quite often hear complaints from farmers in developing countries who say that we are introducing new standards – for example, sanitary and phytosanitary standards – in order to raise the bar for their exports to the eu, when what we could be doing is helping them to create wealth in their local communities by exporting food and other products to us. we complain about the way in which they use their land, even though it is not particularly damaging to the environment. that would be my first warning, but in general i would say that, whatever our views on climate change and the green agenda, it is important that we find consensus in these areas so that we can get the broadest possible support from as many people as possible.
madam president, it is very important that a number of member states and actually, at a global level, a number of countries, think it is important that we monitor some of these measures. we do know that there was quite a debate between the institutions, but also here within the european parliament, about extending some of the requirements for reporting, many of which were actually already reported at member state level or planned to be reported. surely the most important thing about a measure like this is that it is useful and that it is something that member states and countries across the globe are happy to look at and comply with. for that reason, i am very pleased that we saw significant differences and movement in order to accommodate different views, and to make sure that what we end up with is useful and that people, whatever their views on climate change, find that the data that is collected and shared is useful, so that we can make sure that we have a better environment for all our citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to improve the existing monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. it is important that member state comply with commitments and obligations under current and future international climate change agreements, to fulfil the legal requirements of the climate and energy package, and to support the development of climate mitigation and adaptation instruments at union level. this proposal will make much headway in ensuring this happens. in wales we are aware of the effects that greenhouse gases have on the environment and i often receive correspondence from my constituents urging that i do my utmost to ensure that the eu cuts down its greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. − it is essential for the union’s monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions to be as effective as possible if we are to meet our targets. i accordingly voted in favour of the compromise text.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. timely, reliable and accurate data on greenhouse gas emissions is vital in order to know whether the eu and its member states are on track to meet their targets and for developing robust new policies to address the climate challenge. the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions (mmr) replaces the monitoring mechanism established under decision no. 280/2004/ec. while most of the provisions in the mmr are similar to the requirements under decision 280/2004/ec, the commission has proposed some improvements. the commission proposal has set the reporting requirements at the national level and does not require any additional data collection from smes or industry.
in writing. − this report aims to establish a harmonised system on monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions. this will help keep an appropriate check on areas currently failing to implement effective pollution reduction measures, such as my own constituency of london – where disputes over the reality of pollution levels and what constitutes effective environmental schemes delay pollution clean-ups and have a consequent effect on the health of londoners.
in writing. − the online consumer dispute resolution will provide a multi-lingual platform which directs submitted disputes to the most appropriate alternative dispute resolution entity. it will also keep parties informed regarding the information required, timescales and whether any decision is binding. this will be important for protecting consumers in wales, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − increased trade online inevitably means an increase in potential disputes. online trading is often, by its nature, cross border, and europe’s consumers must be able to use the internet to shop with confidence. i therefore welcome the proposed odr platform.
in writing. − the commission’s draft proposal aims at establishing a european online dispute resolution platform ‘odr platform’. it will be an interactive website offering consumers and traders a single point of entry for out of court resolution of certain disputes – contractual disputes arising from the cross-border online sale of goods or the provision of services by a trader established in a member state to a consumer resident in another member state. the platform will be free of charge and available in all official languages of the eu. the proposal has to be looked at in conjunction with the draft proposal for a directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes (‘adr directive’). this draft directive aims at enhancing redress for consumers by ensuring that all consumer complaints can be submitted to an adr entity (e.g. arbitrator, conciliator, ombudsman or complaints board) for out of court resolution. upon agreement between the parties on which adr shall treat the complaint, the platform will automatically transmit the complaint to that adr entity, which will seek to resolve the dispute within 30 days. the platform will enable the parties and the adr entity to conduct the dispute resolution procedure online. a ‘network of odr facilitators’ will be established to support the resolution of disputes.
madam president, many of our citizens’ main encounter with the eu single market comes from purchasing goods and services from other eu member states. in principle, it is an excellent advertisement for free trade and healthy competition, and when these transactions operate smoothly it represents a great eu success story. however, i have lost count of the number of london constituents from my region who have complained of poor experiences when buying items from vendors abroad and who find themselves without any viable redress at eu level. this legislation therefore goes some way to repairing a critical deficiency in the single market. it is to be hoped that all citizens, whether traders or consumers, will benefit from a cheap, quick and efficient pan-european way of resolving such disputes with maximum transparency and minimum cost and bureaucracy. given that the single market is the engine driving the modern european union, we must demonstrate that we are serious about increasing its effectiveness and consolidating its value in order to cultivate a genuinely free flow of goods and services.
in writing. − the lack of proper consumer dispute resolution mechanisms has been identified as one of the barriers to trade. consumers do not have the confidence to buy cross-border as they are unsure of their rights and how to resolve disputes in the event of a problem with a trader. i want to see welsh businesses able to export to the rest of europe without placing a heavy burden on them, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − alternative dispute resolution has a vital role to play in numerous spheres. the scottish government has recognised this and has legislated to give scotland one of the most advanced arbitration systems in the world. the eu’s efforts operate in parallel to national initiatives, and i welcome today’s vote.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the commission proposal for a directive on consumer alternative dispute resolution (adr) aims to provide a simple, expedient and low-cost way of resolving disputes involving the sale of goods or provision of services across the european union. once implemented, this directive will allow any consumer resident in the eu to have access to a quality adr entity if they have problems arising from the purchase of goods or services – whether domestic or cross-border – from a trader established in an eu member state.
in writing. − i support this directive, which calls for alternative dispute resolution to be made accessible to all european consumers. resolving disputes between consumers and businesses can sometimes involve lengthy and expensive court cases but by having good quality adr systems in place, the process could be simplified and made faster and more affordable. as well as improving the system for consumers and traders throughout the eu, the online economy could also be boosted by an improvement in the framework. the commission’s proposals look at improving the way that disputes involving the sale of goods or provision of services are resolved across the eu. this directive goes further and is more ambitious than the commission’s proposals and it has my full backing.
in writing. − i voted in favour to continue the arrangement that the eu has with overseas countries and territories, many of which are not part of the eu but are constitutionally dependent on member states. the report focuses on sustainable management of natural resources, sustainable fisheries management, promotion of renewable energy, environmental protection and the need for public investment to guarantee decent jobs – all of which are in line with the policies of the party of wales.
in writing. − the eu's treatment of overseas countries and territories shows that the union is a dynamic and flexible entity. the eu is inclusive and does not seek to put up unnecessary barriers. i fully support that approach and voted in favour of the new decision concerning octs.
in writing. − the overseas countries and territories (octs) are a significant asset for europe in their capacity as strategic outposts promoting european standards and values. they can help the european union to play the role to which it aspires at international level. situated as they are in the indian ocean, the caribbean, the atlantic or the pacific they are directly confronted with the new challenges which europe itself must face, including the globalisation of trade and new environmental threats and risks in relation to climate change. the octs need to be sustainably developed. given their natural assets and the opportunities for action they provide, the octs could form a crucial component of the european union’s strategies and make an important and innovative contribution to international negotiations. the current overseas association decision (oad), which was adopted in 2001, establishes the legal framework for eu support for the octs’ social and economic development and for their economic relations with the eu. the decision is due to expire on 31 december 2013. the process of revising the oad for the 2014-2020 period was launched in 2008 with a public consultation on the green paper on future relations between the eu and the overseas countries. renewal of the association arrangements is vital for the octs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. currently radioactive contamination of drinking water is not adequately monitored or remedied. this must be remedied and appropriate action must be taken in order to punish those who pollute our water through the principal of polluter-pays. this report also makes informing the public whenever water has been contaminated a requirement. my constituents in wales as well as citizens across europe have the right to know that the water they are drinking is safe and that any bills are paid by those responsible, not through public money.
in writing. − the issues dealt with in this report are of vital importance to europe's citizens, and it is only right that this house has full legislative competence in this area. i accordingly voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. safe drinking water for european citizens is a core concern of policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection. the quality of drinking water is currently regulated by council directive 98/83/ec (dwd), including the regulation of contaminants such as toxic chemicals as well as radionuclides. however, the implementation of the requirements for monitoring tritium and the total indicative dose is still missing, notwithstanding that the dwd had to be complied with by member states by the end of the year 2003. with the present proposal, the commission aims to incorporate the respective requirements not into the dwd but into new specific legislation on the basis of the euratom treaty. although the proposal addresses the lack of implementation of the dwd, the approach taken by the commission is unsatisfying and needs modification and i support the report’s efforts to do this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe enhanced surveillance of eurozone member states which are experiencing or threatened with serious budget difficulties will help to prevent the kind of crisis that has caused so much suffering. wales is not in the eurozone but is obviously affected by the crisis and supports measures to improve the economy in future.
in writing. − i voted for this draft regulation on the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability in the euro area. it is set against the background of the financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis now confronting the european union. it draws several lessons from those crises and proposes solutions. among the proposals is the creation of a system of legal protection applicable to a member state which is at risk of being, in the near future, in an enduring state of default or suspension of payments. the commission may, after consulting the council, decide to place the member state under a legal protection arrangement which would entail, in particular, the suspension of ‘close-out netting’ or ‘credit event’ provisions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe enhanced monitoring and assessment of member states’ budgets will lead to euro zone members maintaining a responsible level of budget deficit, which will help to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis. even though wales is not in the euro zone it is of critical importance to the whole eu economy.
in writing. − i voted for this report which argues that member states should refrain from adopting any measure which could jeopardise the attainment of the union’s objectives in the framework of the economic and monetary union, in particular the practice of accumulating debts outside the general government accounts.
madam president, on the subject of venture capital, the eu has sent out very confusing messages. if we are to grow and compete, we need investment in our small businesses and in our cleverest businesses. i spent my first year in this parliament trying to stop the commission from shutting down venture capital altogether. now we have voted on a report – just two years later – which is intended to help investment, and i hope it does. but we will need to keep a close eye on it because, if our european companies are to compete on a level playing field, they need access to investors from all over the world and not just to those who are based in europe.
madam president, the thrust of this report on european venture capital funds is: how do we reconcile the appeals to professional investors to offer much needed risk capital to smes with the legitimate need to clamp down on tax havens? the report’s compromise will have to suffice for the time being; tax evasion and fraud must indeed be stopped, but at the same time we must do all we can to help finance the small businesses which form the backbone of most of our economies and whose shareholders have frequently borne the brunt of the global financial turmoil. while the eu’s institutions further debate this dilemma over the coming years, it is greatly to be hoped that businesses will receive the investment and support they need under favourable conditions for all parties and in a spirit of adequate but not intrusive regulation. in my constituency of london this will prove very good news for the city and also for small and medium-sized companies in my region.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which says that venture capital fund managers shall identify and avoid conflicts of interest and, where they cannot be avoided, manage and monitor and disclose those conflicts of interest in order to prevent them from adversely affecting the interests of the qualifying venture capital funds and their investors and to ensure that the qualifying venture capital funds they manage are fairly treated.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) make up the majority of businesses in wales. wales also has the lowest level of gva in the united kingdom and west wales and the valleys qualifies for the maximum level of aid through the eu’s cohesion policy. in order for our gva to increase and for the number of people in employment to increase, we must provide more support for smes. this means easier access to funding. social enterprises can also play an increasing role in helping the welsh economy to grow. the eusef regulation has been proposed to provide a european ‘quality label’ for eusef funds primarily investing in social enterprises. it is intended to reassure investors in those funds that their money will, in fact, be used to boost this sector. this will be positive for wales and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i warmly welcome this report. increasingly, as investors also pursue social goals and are not only seeking financial returns, a social investment market has been emerging in the union, comprised in part by investment funds targeting social undertakings. such investment funds provide funding to social undertakings which are acting as drivers of social change by offering innovative solutions to social problems, helping to tackle the social consequences of the financial crisis and making a valuable contribution to meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i fully support this report, which will allow the establishment of a fund for social entrepreneurship. investing in social enterprise is essential in times of economic uncertainty as it helps to promote an agenda centred on jobs and growth, as well as supporting projects that will have a positive influence in social terms. in giving start-ups and small companies the opportunity to find capital, this new fund will encourage the creation of businesses with a social conscience, a vital tool if we are to combat the profit-driven values that led to the financial crisis.
madam president, there are few in this chamber who do not support the concept of gender equality and increased representation for women, and there is also broad agreement that the economic crisis has indeed created economic hardship for women in some parts of the eu. however, this report not only offers a monolithic solution to an intricate web of complex problems but also aims to impose its own set of political values on an area in which the union has little or no competence. women are indeed suffering, but eu-harmonised maternity and paternity leave, increased government spending and enforced quotas are not the answer. as is so often the case with these difficult social problems, well-meaning politicians in the eu seek to administer the blunt instrument of ‘more europe’, when in reality what is required is a far subtler approach, respecting the needs of women as well as the sovereignty and competence of member state governments seeking to resolve this problem.
in writing. − i supported this report because the evidence shows that women are more vulnerable to the effects of the economic crisis. i know that in wales many women work part-time and in care and welfare, as well as being carers themselves. the report is a starting point for the integration of gender equality into any policy response to the crisis, including recovery plans, macroeconomic guidelines and the europe 2020 strategy. it does not go far enough, but it is a start.
in writing. − mr president, i voted against this report in light of its call for changes in policies which are not competencies of the eu which clearly contradict the principle of subsidiary. i also dislike the report’s condemnation of national governments’ austerity measures. specifically, the report asks for ‘relevant budgetary increases’ to address gender inequalities, calls on member states to ‘support job creation in the social economy’ i.e. recreate public sector jobs, calls on member states to adapt pension, housing, healthcare and taxation policies to better address the needs of women and welcomes the proposed directive on women in company posts and asks that it extends similar binding legislation to other posts. this report continues the eu tradition of throwing vast sums of money at whatever the problem is perceived to be.
in writing. − i voted for this report which considers that female poverty is being caused not only by the current economic crisis but also by a variety of factors, including stereotypes, the pay and pension gap between men and women, insufficient redistribution mechanisms in the welfare system, an unsatisfactory work-life balance, women’s longer life expectancy and, in general, all forms of gender-based discrimination which primarily affect women; stresses that the crisis is exacerbating this situation of continual inequality; highlights the need to combat stereotypes in all walks of life and at all stages of life, since these are one of the most persistent causes of inequality between men and women, impacting on their choices in education and employment and the distribution of domestic and family responsibilities, as well as on the pay gap, participation in public life and representation in decision-making positions.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it calls on the commission to stop budget cuts, especially in the public sector: in social benefits and social welfare, education and childcare services. the crisis has hit women disproportionately hard in the uk. in my constituency of london, living costs are higher than anywhere else in the uk, and women still bear the greatest burden of childcare and domestic care for ill or disabled family members, as well as household budgeting and care. austerity measures have therefore hit women the hardest and they will continue to suffer for the longest, as the full extent of the assault on public services becomes clear. for this reason, i think it is more important than ever to defend services that women rely upon day in and day out.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which recognises the plight of women in the wake of the financial crisis and suggests ways of improving their prospects. across europe, women have been disproportionately affected by austerity budgets imposed in recent years, with many being forced to work shorter hours because of cuts to education and childcare services. the eu should work hard to combat these adverse consequences of economic insecurity, offsetting the precariousness of female employment with investment in training, entrepreneurship and childcare facilities. the adoption of this report is an encouraging first step towards achieving these goals.
madam president, perhaps the liotard report will be most remembered for eliciting such a protest from enraged eu citizens, who have flooded our e-mail boxes, condemning parliament’s attempts to ban pornography and censor the internet. but, while the tone of the report is much more sensible than this – which was somewhat hysterical – it still attempts to adopt powers that are reserved to eu member state governments. we all agree that the gender pay gap needs to be closed, that women should not face discrimination in the workplace and that children should definitely not be sexualised. most of us can even agree that men and women should be encouraged to pursue careers that have not been traditionally assigned to them merely by social conditioning. but when suggestions to improve particular situations take the shape of uniform eu diktats, we must reject overbearing eu interference, no matter how well intentioned. we may well agree with the diagnosis of the problem but, sadly, not the cure suggested by mrs liotard.
in writing. − the demands made in this report are quite moderate in terms of womens’ representation. it does call for binding quotas to increase the number of women in governments and parliaments at all levels, as well as in the eu institutions, and talks of media, education and training, and decision-making. the plaid cymru leader, leanne wood, has called for legislation to increase the number of women in politics in wales. i very much support the calls for member states to propose a woman and a man as candidates for the eu commission in 2014, but will repeat my demands that in the uk’s case the commissioner should either be a post that is shared between the constituent nations or at the very least has to be approved by them before the appointment can be made. i abstained on the report because amendments were adopted with which i could not agree.
in writing. − i voted for this report calling on the eu and its member states to carry out awareness-raising, education and training campaigns to combat discriminatory cultural norms and tackle the prevalent sexist stereotypes and social stigmatisation which legitimise and perpetuate violence against women, and to ensure that there is no justification of violence on the grounds of customs, traditions or religious considerations.
in writing. − this report focuses on the causes of gender stereotypes, in the areas of education, media, advertising, the labour market and decision-making. gender stereotypes in primary and secondary schools influence the perception of young children and youngsters of how men and women should behave. negative stereotypes also can be influenced by television where young women’s self-confidence and self-esteem can result in a restriction of their aspirations, choices and possibilities. in my constituency of london, the evidence for a glass ceiling for women is clearer than anywhere else. it is the centre of the financial services industry in europe, and yet a disproportionate amount of women find themselves earning less than their male counterparts or losing out on promotions to male colleagues. far more women can be found in secretarial or lower level jobs across the majority of businesses in london; whilst men will invariably populate the senior ranks, especially in banks and other financial services businesses. gender stereotypes, such as the unacceptability of having children and a career, have contributed to more women than men occupying part-time jobs. in london, we lose a valuable economic resource by continuing these gender stereotypes.
in writing. − the state of the environment report from the european environmental agency states that the eu is moving away from, rather than towards, sustainability. this is unacceptable and must be rectified. i voted in favour of this communication. the proposals will ensure that better knowledge and responsiveness in dealing with the problems will improve the delivery of eu environment measures. constituents and businesses in wales send me a great deal of correspondence concerning sustainability measures in the eu; the regulations need to be clearer at eu level in order to make sure that we are moving towards a more sustainable future.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which stresses the importance of tighter monitoring of how environmental legislation is applied, and calls, therefore, for current capacities to be strengthened and for cohesion to be ensured among the various monitoring bodies in the member states, on the basis of eu guidelines.
in writing. − i welcome today’s own-initiative report on progress of implementation of environmental legislation. i agree that effective implementation of environmental law reduces costs, which in turn can benefit industry and deliver investment opportunities. local and regional authorities are often affected by changes to environmental measures and i would encourage these authorities to implement eu law within the specified timeframes. i support calls to improve the exchange of information between eu legislators and citizens before legislation comes in to force. furthermore, i believe it is important to limit administrative burden for local and regional authorities, without putting at risk the effectiveness and implementation of environmental programmes.
madam president, this is one of the most important debates on the future of the common agricultural policy in decades, and yet we are being asked to start this debate with the commissioner not here – never mind the new representatives from the council. we are supposed to be going into trialogues at the end of this month, so i feel this is a bit unacceptable, for me, as someone in the committee which has put so much work, time and effort over months to get this report. i think we should wait for the commissioner to arrive so that he can hear what we have to say.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group believes that the cap should be the main driver in developing a more sustainable eu agriculture, one that can meet the growing demand for food production while at the same time cutting its energy use, cutting its resource use and cutting its greenhouse gas emissions. as a group, we will support the compromises, both in the horizontal regulations and the direct payments. however, we do want to see some changes. firstly, we want to ensure that the flexibility in our compromises is given to member states, and greening is not used to water down the environmental impact of greying. that is why we support the idea of equivalence and we want the commission to be judge and jury in ensuring that any flexibility used by member states delivers the same environmental impact. we are also opposed to the idea of double funding. in tough economic times this surely cannot be justified, and i am sure the court of auditors will have something to say on this idea as well. we also want to see reintroduced all the smrs and the gaecs that disappeared in the vote in committee, with the exception of two: one on the ploughing of carbon-rich soils – we have serious concerns about its practical implementation – and the second on eid. we believe that the commission has been completely intractable on eid and we want to keep that as a negotiating point in the discussions. finally, we will also support the transparency measures, so that the public can see quite clearly what their money is being spent on and who the recipients are. i hope that parliament, in its vote tomorrow, will back these changes and deliver a strong mandate for the negotiators, to ensure that we do deliver a more sustainable agriculture – one that can produce the food we need while at the same time tackling climate change and preserving precious resources.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the committee on agriculture and rural development has carried out a tremendous amount of work on these four reports and i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs and the chair of the committee for their work so far. on the many issues, i believe that the committee has formulated a better text than the original commission proposals, especially on greening, where we have requirements for farmers that are more workable and realistic. however, i still maintain my position, and i believe i am right, that greening is best delivered through the pillar two schemes which can be easily targeted at local specific needs and represent more of a carrot and stick approach than we see at present. as we are all aware, the budget for pillar two took a tremendous hit during the mff negotiations, and this is very unfortunate. can i just say about double funding – because this is the in word – that it is to some extent a distraction away from supporting, in my opinion, existing agri-environmental schemes, and this we must resolve during the trilogues. this has got to be resolved and we cannot get away from it. on direct payments, we have also achieved a more realistic approach to both internal and external convergence. i hope the council and the member states can agree with us on the regions moving towards a flat-rate payment. they deserve an adequate transition period so that farmers and industry can make the necessary adjustments for the future. we have come to solid agreements on rural development and the horizontal proposals and i will just take the opportunity to register once more that i will be voting against the risk management measures in pillar two, as i do not believe that this is the best use of rural development money. regarding the single cmo, i do appreciate mr dantin’s hard work on this but i do not feel i can support this report tomorrow. this is, i believe, a distraction and will take europe’s agricultural sector back to the 1980s of butter mountains and milk lakes and this we cannot accept. quite simply, the money is no longer there to support it. i want to see a framework which allows farming to respond effectively to the market and have that support from the market. i also believe the concerns and other elements in the report which will give producer organisations the ability to regulate the supply for certain products and the extension of the sugar regime. despite these problems and our internal differences, this is the first time parliament will have a voice in the forum on one of europe’s most important policies, and i look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the agriculture committee as we enter into negotiations in the council.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, since the last reform process, two major dynamics have changed. twenty-seven countries are now involved and the concept of co-decision with the council has been introduced. between them, these two factors are bound to reduce decision-making to a series of shambolic compromises that make a nonsense of the word ‘simplification’. commissioner, your train was delayed for four hours today, 12 march, by severe winter weather, yet farmers are expected to solve the non-existent problem of man-made global warming with a series of measures that will do nothing to change the world’s weather but will reduce food production at a time when major world commodities are in a state of under-supply. as a british mep, i object to british farmers being told by the green lobby that they do not rotate crops properly, when there is no evidence whatsoever to suggest this. this concern may well be relevant to other parts of europe where maize is grown continuously. the irony does not escape me that this is largely happening because of the green lobby’s obsession with biofuels. despite a strong demand for sugar, the reform proposals have the potential to make life difficult for both the sugar cane and the sugar beet sectors in the uk. in our committee on agriculture and rural development, 11 out of 44 meps voted for an amendment to scrap the entire report. that says it all. the eu is simply too big and diverse to adopt a common agricultural policy. this is particularly apparent when decisions on capping and the definitions of ‘eligible farmers’ are concerned. british taxpayers deserve a better return on their investment.
madam president, i have consistently expressed my dissatisfaction with the original commission proposal and the lack of importance given to food security. the farming and agri-foods sectors are vital to the economy of northern ireland. a visionary cap reform which recognised the importance of these sectors in global food security would have boosted this in member states. this proposal is extremely complex, may restrict farmers’ ability to produce food, and in many cases will not deliver for the environment. greening and cross-compliance measures must be balanced and proportionate. regional flexibility is a must for northern ireland. flexibility allows member states and regions to implement the policy in a way which best suits the needs of farmers, wildlife and the environment. it also maximises the benefit of cap for farm incomes and food production. in northern ireland, given the link to historic payments, it is important that internal convergence is carried out in a manner which allows farm businesses to adjust to income variations. transparent and objective criteria must be adopted to ensure rural development allocations are fair to member states. additional allocations in the budgets to individual member states without explanation run contrary to this very important principle. i support the measures for young farmers as a small attempt at energising and sustaining the sector. i would say to the commissioner that there is much detail in the proposal, and many issues for the upcoming trialogue negotiations. as you say, commissioner, this is the start of a process. i do wish everyone well.
mr president, i will be no exception in congratulating our rapporteur and the other colleagues on the way that we have conducted ourselves through these discussions. the committee on agriculture and rural development and, indeed, our friends in the commission, have done a really decent shift for our consumers, our citizens, our farmers and the environment, as we have taken this dossier thus far; but lest we get too smug, let us remember why we are having to make these reforms at all. we have a broken food supply chain within the european union. we export our bad decisions to the developing world. we have much to do in remedying what is wrong with the far too long, far too complex, far too opaque food supply chain, and these reforms go part of the way, but we do still have much to do on this. in the time available, like ms paulsen, i will focus on rural development, given that i was shadow rapporteur for our group on that dossier. there is much to admire: a 5 % ring-fence for leader, a higher co-financing rate for agri-environent schemes; agri-environment schemes and organic schemes guaranteed a 25 % ring-fence of funding; support – crucially, from our perspective – for advisory services to encourage local processing, short supply chains, better practices, quality schemes, even community ownership: better practices in the round, to assist our farmers to modernise how they do things. from a scottish perspective, lfa reform being parked for two years until we have adequate data to reform is hugely positive, with many other steps as well. however, we do have other caveats. in article 20, the retirement scheme to get small farmers out of farming is poor, we think, in principle. articles 37, 38 and 40 on crop insurance and the income stabilisation tool we think is wrong in principle, dubious in law and potentially disastrous in its financial implications. the americans have already made this mistake. we think that this could see vast amounts of rural development money essentially soaked up in commodity speculation without actually doing anything productive. we think this is a poor use of public money and it really is a deal breaker for our group, on what is otherwise a very positive dossier. i would urge colleagues to support the amendments to dump and bin these poorly thought-out proposals now.
madam president, this is a once in a generation opportunity to make changes to agriculture in europe. in a europe in financial crisis, every penny of public money we spend is under severe scrutiny. how can we justify the continuation of devoting nearly 40 % of the eu budget to agricultural subsidy without a clear plan to tie public money to public goods? the direction of travel established in the last set of reforms is being heavily reversed here, particularly in the cmo report which takes us backwards to a world of overproduction and guaranteed pricing. parliament’s desire to delay the ending of sugar quotas is symptomatic of this backward thinking. as for greening, i am all for well-funded agri-environment schemes, but the kindergarten approach put forward by the commission in its original report and then tinkered with by parliament will not deliver. it was unambitious micro-managing when it was first proposed and it has not been improved by the committee. in my own member state, particularly in england, i can confidently predict that the new system will deliver a nightmare scenario of administrative changes, new mapping requirements, confusion and resentment. this surely cannot be in anyone’s interest – not the farmer, not the taxpayer and, above all, not the consumer. we have an opportunity to improve food production efficiency and protect and enhance our environment. instead, we have seen naked self-interest manifested in issues such as supporting a lack of transparency of recipients of payments, exemption of farmers from basic european competition regulation, the reintroduction of subsidy for tobacco and many more unpalatable elements. i do welcome some elements – those on cross-compliance, proportionality and sheep eid to name two – but i shall be working my way through this voting list with a heavy heart, reflecting on a lost opportunity.
mr president, not a single sane person in this chamber would disagree with me when i say that the common agricultural policy needs reforming. the eu needs to reduce intervention to a genuine safety net, move towards a market-orientated approach and the end of a situation whereby farmers chase subsidies and not markets – the old-style cap market production box marked ‘failed projects’ it should be confined to. what reform are we really going to see here? we have been talking about this for two years, and a quarter of the committee on agriculture and rural development opposed the report. what message does that send to the farming sector? both environmentalists and farmers alike are highly critical of the green aspects of these proposals. how then can the public believe that their environmental concerns have been addressed? i believe that the people who are best qualified to look after the british landscape are the british farmers, not unelected bureaucrats in brussels. the cap is expensive and over-bureaucratised, and farmers in my constituency constantly contact me about this. it adds to the weekly food bill of every family in great britain. professor patrick minford of cardiff business school, a leading critic of the cap, is on record as stating that the average family would be much better off if we left the european union, not only in terms of cheaper food.
mr president, if you ask people in the united kingdom what they think about the european union, what their criticisms are, the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy will be two issues immediately raised. we are acting decisively to improve the cfp, but in not endorsing the commission’s proposals for the cap i think we are dragging our feet dangerously. i represent the cities of liverpool and manchester – that is where the majority of my constituents live, great urban areas. people want to know what they are getting for their money. if farmers are to be subsidised, then people expect greening to be applied, for there to be full cross-compliance – as a minimum – for those subsidies. and, of course, they want full transparency; they want to know where their money is going; they want to know who is receiving it. i raise one further point. there are some members of this parliament who are beneficiaries of the common agricultural policy. it is very important that those members declare their interests and abstain from voting. it is important for this parliament’s reputation that we are not seen to have a vested interest in the way we shape the policies of this union.
mr president, commissioner, i am disappointed by these proposals. if they are accepted in their current form, they will, firstly, reverse the direction of travel of the industry over the past two reforms. secondly, they will do very little to address the growing challenge of food security. thirdly, they do nothing to help with the simplification of the common agricultural policy. no one doubts the importance of an environmentally-sound, biodiverse countryside. but what we cannot accept is that it should be achieved at the expense of – not in support of – a sound competitive and productive agriculture sector. by returning to coupling and intervention, it reinvents all the old bad habits of the common agricultural policy. we shall go back to food mountains; we shall go back to supporting inefficiency, and we shall not be meeting the challenges of the future.
blue-card question to luís paulo alves. – mr alves, you talked about quotas. the real problem is that mr davies got it completely wrong when he said people want greening. people want cheap food. if you put in place quotas – and this was proven in the horsemeat scandal – you decrease the efficiency of farmers. i agree with mr jahr that we should actually do away with the common agricultural policy and move it to a social policy. in actual fact you are wrong. you must answer this question because i think you are wrong in putting in place quotas which limit the efficiency of farmers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 march 2013. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – the proposals for the regulation of the eu’s agricultural production are retrograde and damaging. no one ought to be nostalgic for milk lakes and butter mountains, yet that is the backward direction in which the rapporteur wishes to travel. i am particularly concerned about proposals for the sugar market. the most recent eu sugar reforms failed to achieve their objectives of reducing sugar prices and increasing competition. the average sugar price in the eu has increased 64 % since last year. moreover, traditional cane refiners are finding it difficult to compete with beet processors. the commission has single-mindedly refused to admit that it got it wrong and introduce measures which would help consumers and allow cane refiners not only to survive, but to flourish. europe needs a sugar market which embraces both cane and beet. we need a competitive arena to keep costs down. this means ensuring that cane refiners and beet processors have a level playing field. the current proposals queer the pitch in favour of beet. until cane refiners receive parallel terms of access to raw material, i cannot support this legislation. four thousand five hundred jobs across europe, including in london, are depending on our making the right choice.
the next item is the report by anne e. jensen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2014 budget, section iii – commission (2013/2010(bud)) (a7-0043/2013).
i do not see mr mulder, which is unusual for him. ms werthmann, will you take over mr mulder’s time?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i want to compliment the rapporteur on her report, much of which i would agree with. specifically, her remarks on quality of spend and budgetary control and rigour are most welcome. i suggest the priorities for her work should be looking at the creation of jobs, growth and competitiveness, but i would also urge her to look very carefully at cost control under heading 5. i wish to say also that i share her views on the danger of carrying forward major liabilities from one year to the next as we have done in 2012-2013. it should be a priority for this house to say that we urgently need to put in place the necessary control procedures to ensure that the ‘rals’ problem, which has been an ongoing problem from year to year, does not happen again. where i cannot agree with the rapporteur is on the whole question of own resources. it seems to me that the competence for revenue is a matter for the council, not for parliament, and frankly, unless or until we align the duration of the multiannual financial framework with the electoral mandate of this house, we shall have no democratic empowerment to raise taxes.
mr president, like others, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. as she said, we are only at the start of the 2014 budget process. these are only the guidelines. however, i do believe that these guidelines are a timely reminder that europe needs to stimulate growth – not just in the eurozone, but right across europe. for example, we know that the uk is likely to fall into a triple-dip recession for the first time in modern history. there is little or no growth right across the european union. the question for us should be how we achieve that growth. in this parliament, we believe that the eu budget itself must play a role in creating jobs and growth. this is even more important as member states are cutting back on spending. therefore, i welcome this report’s emphasis on investment: investment in infrastructure, education and skills training, which should be funded through cohesion policy, as well as in research and development and employment measures, which are also very important – particularly employment measures for young people. youth unemployment in europe at the moment is one of the great scandals of our time. if the eu budget does nothing else, it should tackle this problem through a youth guarantee scheme. i am delighted that is one of our proposals for the future. finally, there is a lot of uncertainty about the annual shortfalls. each year we are told that there is an annual shortfall. the commission says that last year it was eur 16 billion. this parliament believed the commission, but unfortunately many member states did not. i wonder if the commissioner could tell us how we can put in place mechanisms to show and prove to member states that there is a shortfall in the eu budget.
blue-card question. – mr president, i wonder if mr mynář can just explain why he thinks that more public expenditure will automatically lead to more growth. does the evidence not suggest that we should be cutting taxes and reducing regulation? this would then allow the private sector to create more jobs. it is far more likely to succeed than ever-increasing public expenditure.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 march 2013.
the next item is the report by mr rafał trzaskowski and mr roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the composition of the european parliament with a view to the 2014 elections (2012/2309(ini)) (a7-0041/2013).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in the past, seats in the parliament have been traded between states in an unfair and opaque manner, usually in the closing moments of an igc. today, thanks to lisbon, parliament is doing the hard work itself. the rapporteurs have tried to be pragmatic, but of course pragmatism cannot be perfection, and the committee made an important adjustment to their proposal in favour of sweden which reduces the number of times that the principle of digressive proportionality is breached. we ought not to reverse that change in plenary, and in the long run the experience has strengthened the argument for trying to find and agree on a mathematical formula which can be applied before an election in a transparent and straightforward manner, and i believe that this formula will surely be close to the cambridge compromise, as delivered to afco two years ago. the report puts that question firmly on the agenda of the convention, which we expect to start in the spring of 2015, plus the important question of transnational lists, and i believe that a discussion on seats in the parliament must be tackled alongside a review of voting weights in the council so that we can truly achieve a truly fair, durable system fit for a more democratic parliamentary europe. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule149 (8))
blue-card question. – mr duff, i am a mathematician and i like mathematical answers. can you explain why, under your proposal, the uk has fewer meps per head than germany?
blue-card answer. – firstly, i firmly reject – and indeed resent – the accusation that i am being partisan. what we are seeking to do is to be as constitutional in our approach as pragmatically possible. that is not pure and that is not mathematical. i do hope we can achieve that in the future. if i can explain, the difference in terms of population between sweden and hungary is 475 000 people, and we do not feel that this small distinction in population merits two meps. the difference between austria and sweden is a million people and that more credibly and fairly merits that gap. i am not responsible for population growth in sweden or austria, or indeed anywhere else; (laughter) i am just asking people to look at the figures. as for the british position, as you know, pragmatically at present we are not proposing an increase or a reduction of its members but, should we agree upon a mathematical formula, you will see that france, britain and spain will grow in terms of the number of their members of the european parliament.
blue-card question. – mr häfner, you used the term ‘unanimity of the committee’ at least three times. is it your contention that the unanimity of a committee of itself guarantees the wisdom and validity of what the committee has voted on?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this report was prepared in response to the need to reduce the size of the european parliament, which will increase to 766 members when croatia joins us on1 july. the rapporteurs have taken the view that in order to get this legislation through the council and through this house, no country apart from germany should lose more than one seat. the rapporteurs call this a pragmatic solution, and they are correct. it is not, though, an ideal solution; but i do accept that it is the most practical one, especially considering the very tight timescale we face to complete the task in good time for the next european elections. in an ideal world i should like to see a formula adopted where the number of meps allocated to each nation state is more closely related to their population. i do, though, accept that this is a debate for another day. my group will therefore accept the rapporteurs’ conclusions, though it will be no surprise to learn that there are some members who are unhappy with the report.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, although the united kingdom does not appear to be in danger of diminished representation, this proposal must be roundly condemned. there can be few better examples of how undemocratic the european union is. in the various schemes that are mooted in this report, it is the medium-sized countries that will be downgraded. meps of other countries will dictate the terms of downgrading for the medium-sized countries concerned, yet if their voters are dissatisfied with those who have voted for their downgrade, they cannot remove them at the ballot box. likewise, any member of the european council, safe in their own country, is immune from democratic accountability. undemocratic is the kindest word for this; gerrymandering is the reality. now we hear of proposals to force the uk to hold its elections on a sunday, to force the use of european political party names and to dictate the contents of political broadcasts. go ahead: just see how that plays to the people of the uk. this is no democratic institution, but it is an elective dictatorship. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – i just wonder, given the many deficiencies in this report that mr agnew has identified, whether he could tell this chamber how many amendments he submitted at the committee stage to improve the report?
blue-card answer. – my presence on that committee is for finding out what it is doing and reporting it back to the people of britain, because many people in britain do not understand what is going on here – and it is certainly being shielded from them by the conservative party.
blue-card question. – mr agnew, you could have been in the negotiations on this report. have you attended any of the negotiations that have happened on this report?
blue-card answer. – mr president, i have attended the great majority of the meetings, and i do not like what i hear when i am at the meetings. i speak at virtually every meeting i go to, and i am at most of the meetings. i am a little bit surprised to hear that there was unanimity in the committee, because, if i am there, i certainly do not vote, plus on the very last vote on the report. usually i am substituted, but as i do not have proof of that, i will have to look into it.
blue-card question. – mr president, i have a question for my colleague. he has talked about potential national interest and each member’s country not wanting to lose one. we have also had a slight accusation against my colleague, mr duff, that he may be doing it for political purposes. does this not show that politicians should not determine how politicians are elected? the eu employs far more bureaucrats than necessary. should it not be done without politicians making these decisions and just determined by independent bodies, as is done in the uk?
mr president, i am afraid i am going to join the broad consensus and welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteurs on an excellent job. it was not easy, but they came up – as others have said – with a pragmatic, workable solution which enables us to reach a position in time for next year’s european elections. but as others have rightly said, it is a temporary solution and the report recognises that in 2015 we have to come up with a more long-term solution that can apply to all circumstances, so that we do not have to negotiate between member states; we do not need to tick off one and pick another member state in terms of an extra member and, as we have just heard from other speakers, this has to be based on the treaty’s call for degressive proportionality. so we need a mathematical system which applies every time the membership of parliament changes. that will not be easily achieved and i hope that the committee on constitutional affairs will start work on this early in the next parliamentary term, so we are not in this position next time and having to make a pragmatic solution a year before the election. finally, if i might say so mr president, despite what mr agnew said, the other recommendation is that the european elections should be held between the 22 and 24 may 2014; that is a thursday to a sunday, so there is no threat to britain’s right to vote on a thursday. i hope, having had this endorsement from the council, that the member states will now get on and ratify those dates for the election.
blue-card question. – mr karas, i esteem you but i have to try to explain why we changed the proposal of the rapporteur, and it is because it breached the principle of degressive proportionality. of course, we cannot, as i said before, be pure and see that the entire settlement respects that principle, but the court would expect us to try to reduce the number of breaches in this instance, and we achieved that during the committee’s vote.
mr president, it is poetic justice that my party, the uk independence party, wins seats in this place and wins them in increasing numbers. indeed, we came second out of the uk political parties in 2009. we did so precisely because we are dedicated to taking britain out of the european union. regarding the composition of parliament in 2014, i would like to make one prediction: the uk political party most likely to come first and return the highest number of meps will be the uk independence party. this will reflect the growing mood of the british population and will be another important milestone on the road to achieving britain’s withdrawal from the european union.
mr president, democracy is far from perfect. while i feel that there should be some protection for some smaller countries, i think it is only fair to inform you that my country, the united kingdom, is greatly under-represented. in fact, i represent a region, the west midlands, which has some 5 million people. at the last election, six of us were elected, so that was about 900 000 people each. we have maltese meps and luxembourgish meps, with populations of half a million also returning six meps. now, i make a great effort in communicating with my constituents, but my allowances have to stretch to 5 million people, whereas an mep from luxembourg or malta – with only 500 000 and a much smaller geographical area – is put at great advantage. i do not think that is taken into consideration. (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. − mr president, national and regional accounts are the cornerstone of all macroeconomic statistics and are the lens through which we look at our economies. everyone agrees that getting the collection of european statistics right is vitally important. one should think back to the start of the economic crisis and realise that manipulating statistics or providing incorrect data can have a detrimental effect on the whole of the eu. indeed, it has long been an objective of this parliament for statistics to be improved and the powers of eurostat increased. however, eurostat can only be as good as the statistics it receives. we have done a lot in the six pack and the two pack to improve economic governance. in the budgetary framework of the six pack, it was agreed that there should be better reporting of public sector liabilities and an end to off-balance sheet accounting for governments. it takes good statistics to track that. esa 2010 consists of a regulation accompanied by two annexes. one consists of lists of data which need to be collected and which are quite self-explanatory. the other, the infamous annex a, consists of the statistical and accounting methodology and is many hundreds of pages long. the lawyer linguists in the secretariat that checked this through and brought several points to my attention deserve a lot of thanks. among the various reforms, expenditure on r&d and weapons is transferred into capital formation, which reflects the economic situation. there are some knock-on effects on gdp and subsequent allocation of structural funds but these will not impact until 2020 and are small. deficit effects will also be monitored and are also expected to be small. in the trialogues, the mission of the parliament negotiating team was clear. we wanted good quality statistics, we wanted transparency and we wanted as few derogations to the obligations as possible. some smaller member states do have resource-based reasons for not being able to provide eurostat with the same volume of statistics as larger member states, but we wanted to ensure that derogations are kept to a minimum, that they are constantly reviewed and that the commission provides methodological support for member states that need it, with a view eventually to discontinuing any derogation. the agreed wording successfully reflects that. the biggest sticking point came when four large member states were reluctant to have mandatory transmission of pension liabilities data as provided for in the budgetary frameworks directive under the six pack. this was unacceptable to parliament. we saw it as a blatant attempt to keep potentially embarrassing information out of the public domain and away from calculations. in order to press our point, we enlisted public support through the press. how are we to have an honest debate on public finances if member states insist on hiding uncomfortable truths? after several more rounds of negotiation, we obtained agreement that all member states will transmit that data. this is a good win for transparency and good governance. there are other parliamentary achievements in the report, and i thank the shadow rapporteurs for their work on what many saw as a dull file. but, as i have explained, it had its moments of excitement and is also a fundamental tool to deliver proper economic governance.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, governments and public bodies take money from people. i think it is perfectly reasonable for people to know where that money has gone and what the government owes, both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet. two years ago, when i worked for this parliament on the so-called ‘six pack’, the 27 countries agreed that they would disclose what they owed, both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet. however, within a year, when it came to the detail of the disclosure, suddenly a lot of big countries were saying that they did not want to do this any more. they had changed their minds. it was the smaller groups of this parliament who brought them back to the negotiating table and said – on behalf of the people who paid the taxes – that they needed to disclose where the money had gone and where there could be problems in the future. so thank you to the smaller groups for standing up for the people and for transparency on this issue.
rapporteur. − mr president, many thanks to the commissioner for the contribution of the commission as well. i am very sorry, commissioner, that you do not like recital 16, but economic matters are exceptional – we keep being told that – and the ecb is a major user of these statistics which are fundamental to monetary operations. so we considered that, in this case, we did support putting the ecb’s right to consultation as far as delegated acts. they have that right with regard to all union acts and, therefore, we consider this to be an extension of that. you, commissioner, and also vicky ford and sven giegold, have mentioned the public liabilities point, so i will come back on that briefly, as well as insisting on mandatory transmission. we did insert more safeguards into the text, including tasking the commission with reporting back to us on existing information on public private partnerships and other implicit liabilities, which were at the heart of the matter, as you have heard. we also charged the commission with producing another report assessing whether we need to do even more in this area. we will be watching this closely and i thank you for the update showing that this work is already in hand. as you also said earlier, we can expect esa 2010 to last us a fair time – maybe 15 years – and parliament must stay active in the meantime in promoting increased transparency as regards accounts for the public sector. we are already working on the next statistics file, which is on the functioning of the statistical framework and independence of statistical institutes – regulation 223 as it is known in the jargon. unfortunately, the feedback i have received on that so far is that member states are again reluctant to sign up or even discuss increased transparency: for example, by publishing on their websites whether there is a commitment on confidence in statistics established in their member state. i find that very worrying indeed. however, turning back to esa 2010, i wish to again thank colleagues and the commission and recommend my report to this house, with the support of my committee, for a first reading agreement.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation on this report. i can agree with her introductory remarks and, indeed, those of the commission and most of the others we have heard this evening, though not quite all. her report is important because it recognises that integration is an active policy. it also recognises migrants as individuals, with different needs and, therefore, different programmes that need to work for those individuals if they are going to contribute to our societies and we are also going to contribute to their lives; we do not want people leaving the european union at any stage having lost skills, having their talents under-used, or indeed not having their lives developed. in that respect, it is also very important, in terms of the workplace being a key point of integration, to make sure that our anti-discrimination measures are working, that equality of treatment applies and indeed that we have in place a social security system that actually recognises those contributions once people have left the european union.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i speak from a uk perspective. we have a long and proud history of accepting people from elsewhere, especially those fleeing political and religious persecution. in a time when there were no schools or hospitals, and electricity and public transport were non-existent, newcomers made their own way; but now they need these facilities, and we, the most densely-crowded country in the eu, are struggling to cope. that is no good for anyone, and we certainly cannot provide the social security they need. in these difficult times, we cannot provide properly for those who have been paying their taxes in the uk throughout their working lives; we cannot go on taking in people. so the suggestions in this report are impossible. even my own government, which is in favour of the eu, is concerned that the number of proposals in this report are overly bureaucratic. we cannot regularise illegal immigrants. that would open the door to a flood of unmanageable proportions. will the uk suddenly be expected to accept great numbers of bulgarians and romanians after 1 january next year? especially after the commission document presented to the committee on employment last april, which demands that bulgarians or romanians seeking work must be given prior claim over a third-country national. that excludes people from the british commonwealth, who the rapporteur now thinks should go to the us instead. it is also discrimination which is outlawed by the lisbon treaty. i do not think it is right to take in people for menial work; that is exploitation. skilled workers from eastern europe may be welcome, but they are exactly what their own country needs to build their economy and prosperity. that is not fair. i do not want to see poor countries in europe. in truth, is not this report part of a programme to force people to move around the eu with financial assistance from the commission, mixing up the peoples of europe so that its countries disappear, to be replaced by a single state called europe?
mr president, this is a rather difficult subject, and i would say at the outset that i do not blame any immigrants who want to try and make a better life for themselves. what i do feel is that the politicians have let down the immigrants and the settled community. in 2004, when the eastern bloc countries joined the eu, our labour government told us that we would only have 14 000 people coming into the uk. well, it hit over a million people. how were our local service providers – our national health service, our housing – able to plan ahead for that? next year, we face more people coming from bulgaria and romania. how are our social services in the united kingdom, which are already cut to the bone, and our taxpayers, who are paying more money, supposed to support that? it simply does not work. i am glad to see that our own government is beginning to take a stance on this, but even it cannot tell us how many people are coming next year. that is a fundamental problem with planning for social services in the united kingdom.
mr president, what does social security coordination mean? does it mean that the benefits systems of all eu states are brought up to the british standard at their taxpayers’ expense? no, it means that the british benefits system is made available to any eu citizen who wants to use it. my constituency – london – particularly feels the impact of foreign claimants on the housing, health and benefits systems. david cameron has had to respond to public outrage by saying that he wants to limit eu citizens’ access to benefits, but he cannot do so, and he knows it. it is not often that i can agree with an eu commissioner, but viviane reding has said that this is against eu law and that he cannot discriminate on the basis of nationality. england is now the soup kitchen of the world, and the soup is running out. this is just one of the reasons why we have to leave the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i very much welcome the opportunity to address these questions to the commission. we are well aware in this parliament of unemployment across the european union, but of course young people with disabilities are likely to have the greatest difficulty of all in getting their first job in any sector, even the new ones. so the accessibility proposal mentioned by the commissioner would be welcome, but we would also like to see a really strong and active implementation of the anti-discrimination directives already on the statute books. cuts – as we know – are reducing the possibility for independence and social inclusion, even in those countries which have been most progressive. indeed, as my colleague marian harkin has said, there is mounting evidence that people with disabilities face growing hostility in a number of member states. a recent poll by the uk charity scope showed that two-thirds of respondents had recently experienced hostility – up by 40% in just four months. this is being stoked by parts of the press, even quality papers like the telegraph. we are seeing at the moment short-term economic thinking, which will have incredibly dreadful long-term effects.
mr president, this saturday norwich disabled people against cuts will organise an open-air demonstration in their pyjamas, showing how nearly gbp 1 billion of cuts to social care literally deprives them of the services to be able to get out of bed. according to the essex coalition of disabled people, one in four disabled people are losing britain’s disability living allowance in so-called fit-for-work tests, which no less than 6 % of doctors say have driven their patients to attempt suicide. now our government is introducing a bedroom tax, two in three of those suffering being disabled people or their carers – over 31 000 people in my own east of england constituency. across britain, according to the centre for welfare reform, disabled people make up 8 % of the population but are bearing 29 % of the cuts. in britain disabled people are denied services to get out of bed but are being taxed more, simply for staying there. severely disabled people are being told they are fit for work by a government that is unfit for office and a benefit called disability living allowance is being withdrawn and disabled people are losing the will to live.
mr president, i am making a point of order on a point of order. you noticed my point of order previously and as i understand it – and i have taken issue with this once before – when a president notices that a member wishes to make a point of order, he or she must take that point of order. you acted beyond your responsibilities in not taking my point of order earlier. the point of order was that the non-attached element of this house had not made any speech at all and yet you had given the catch-the-eye to groups that had spoken on numerous occasions.
in writing. – many of my constituents have contacted me in desperation because their disability payments are being cut or stopped altogether. one lady rang to tell me of her young adult daughter who has a learning disability and whose disability benefit payment was being stopped because she has been assessed as fit for work. she took her daughter to the job centre to look for something she might be able to do. she found that all the low-skilled, low-paid jobs were taken, often by migrants without the disadvantage of a disability. in the same queue were eu citizens signing on for the jobseeker’s allowance. she asked me to explain why we, as a country, cannot afford her daughter’s benefit but we can afford to pay benefits to migrants from the eu. i told her that this was because our government’s spending decisions and priorities are not decided in the interests of their own citizens but rather in order to comply with eu law and their ambitions to build a borderless united states of europe. i further explained that the only solution to the problem is for britain to leave the european union. following our conversation that lady, like some many more people, will be voting for the uk independence party at their next opportunity.
in writing. – austerity is detrimental to disabled people (8 % of the uk population), who are finding themselves in a worst position of poverty than ever before. in the uk we have endured constant reassessments of the work capability assessment, which has led to the deaths and suicides of 73 disabled people per week. it is abhorrent that 29 % of the cuts are focused on disabled people. fewer people are entitled to support from their local authorities, and we will see the introduction of personal independence payments to replace disability living allowance, which is set to knock over half a million people off support. there is also a proposal to close the independent living fund permanently. the proposal by the government is to transfer monies to cash strapped local authorities; which are already saying that they will institutionalise disabled people, to save money. these are just some of the cuts impacting on disabled people in the uk, estimated to take gbp 9 billion from the poorest in society. no wonder british people are sick and tired of the eu. we have a saying ‘charity begins at home’. britain needs to look after its vulnerable people and not be hampered by sending gbp 53 million every day to the eu.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i have read president barroso’s letter to the council, and i have to say that i think it is in complete contradiction with the figures attached in the annexes. i do not think it is any longer simply a case of the commission pursuing wrong-headed economic policies, but more a case of unjustified, needlessly destructive policies based on groundless economic optimism. i cannot see how we can trust the commission’s figures any longer. in october 2011, the commission predicted a 0.6% growth rate for 2012 for the eurozone. it now estimates the outcome at -0.6% – an error of 1.2%. last october, the commission predicted a mild economic recovery for this year. that is the mistaken projection on which the current annual growth survey is based. it now acknowledges that the reality will be a contraction of at least 0.3%. all of the economies usually held up as virtuous in the euro zone are set to perform much worse than in 2011 after a bad 2012. germany, the netherlands, austria and finland are all set to experience very low growth this year. add to that the -1% recession predicted for italy, and the zero growth expected in france, and there is in fact no room for optimism. the predicted upswing of 1.4% for 2014 is hopelessly optimistic. more likely, 2014 will see a very limited recovery, if we are lucky. serious downward risks remain for a number of major economies: italy, spain and, to some extent, france. furthermore, these projections take no account of new austerity measures in preparation in france, or those to be expected later this year in italy. president barroso, as you know, we in this group became so despairing of the commission’s economic modelling that we commissioned a number of outside independent economic institutes to produce our own independent annual growth survey. virtually without exception, the figures they give us show yours to be unreasonably optimistic. it seems clear that we will experience another year of recession this year, with at least -0.5% recession. tragically, that will push unemployment up still further, perhaps beyond 13% next year, with 30 million unemployed. i want to come to two points you highlight in your letter. the first is the challenge of competitiveness, where again you home in on the structural reform agenda. i put it to you, president barroso, that your policies are today one of europe’s worst competitiveness problems. by needlessly driving the eurozone into two extra years of recession, you have caused enormous damage to our future growth potential. the loss of investment, skills and human potential dwarves the gains you look for from structural reform. the second thing i want to focus on is youth unemployment. at long last, we now have agreement on a youth guarantee. we have 7.5 million 15-to-25-year-olds outside of employment, education or training. the cost of that is estimated at a staggering eur 153 billion a year. how much does the mff allocate to the youth guarantee? eur 6 billion. the ilo estimates that at least eur 21 billion will be necessary to fund the guarantee. i do not blame the commission for the funding decisions on the youth guarantee, but i do blame you, president barroso, for the damaging policies inflicted on the european economy as a result of mistaken economic projections. the commission could well become a laughing stock. there is now a website called ‘the folly from olli’. look it up. it is devoted to the consistently wrong economic projections coming from the office of olli rehn. however, this is no laughing matter. the human misery being caused is enormous. president barroso, if you were a prime minister and olli rehn was your finance minister, and he was getting things so consistently wrong, you would reshuffle him out of the way to stop this damage. we think that is what you must do now, or maybe take full responsibility for these matters yourself. finally, a brief word on hungary. we in this group, and the liberals, wanted to have a separate debate on the deplorable developments there. that has not proved possible for a number of reasons. but we sincerely hope, president barroso, that you will take the opportunity in your speech to the council to condemn the developments in hungary, which so undermine our fundamental values. (applause)
mr president, the first three or four speakers have all been able to over-run their time considerably. i hope you afford the same privilege to mr farage.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, let me start with the mff deal reached at the last european council. i know that many speakers here, such as mr cohn-bendit and mr hughes, have said that they are tired of austerity and that they want a quick return to the spend, spend, spend mentality of the past, when governments tried desperately to win popularity by bribing their electorates with their own money – or in fact, worse still, by bribing them with their children’s money with excessive borrowing which, of course, eventually has to be paid off by future generations. that era, as we all know, had to end. across europe, borrowing was out of control, caused in many cases by easy access to cheap credit because of the introduction of the euro. but even if things seem a little bit calmer at the moment, we must never forget that the underlying problems have not gone away. some in this chamber like to claim otherwise, but the state of european public finances across europe is still extremely poor and so, whether we like it or not, austerity cannot be avoided. it is, therefore, in my view, only right that the eu should play its part. when describing the eu budget you can of course use words like ‘investment’, if you like, but really, spending is spending, and the money has to be found from somewhere. it is simply extraordinary that many in this chamber seem to think that our member states should raise more taxes or borrow more money just to hand it over to the eu so that they can have a bigger budget and we can spend even more. that is why, in my view, the mff deal is so important. we need a financial framework that respects the sacrifices that are being made in the public finances in many of our member states. i have already said that, in my view, this deal is far from perfect. i would have preferred to see a budget designed for 21st century priorities, with more support for r&d and perhaps less on agriculture. with more for new member states and less on administration. nobody pretends that the deal reached by our leaders was perfect, but it is a compromise between many competing demands and so our position is of ‘yes, but’ rather than ‘no, unless’. this is reflected in our motion that will be voted on shortly. i am pleased that the initial frenzied posturing from many in this house is now, i think, beginning to come around to a grudging acceptance of the budget numbers. my group can accept some of the requests being made today such as a mid-term review of the budget, provided that it is done under unanimity, for greater flexibility between the headings. but we continue to oppose new own resources. it would be devastating for europe’s economy if we allow this house to raise taxes to fund whatever pet projects the green’s have dreamed up today. let me turn to the idea raised by you, mr president, of a secret ballot. i respect the rights of members to ask for a secret vote in some circumstances, but that provision was never designed to allow members to hide from the democratic scrutiny of their decisions on legislation or on the budget. if we are not accountable for our actions in one of the most important votes that we will take in this mandate, how can we claim any kind of democratic legitimacy in the future? the house will know that normally, in these debates, i like to quote my conservative heroes of margaret thatcher and ronald regan, but today mr president i want to quote you. you said regarding a possible secret ballot on turkey in 2005: ‘we believe that europe’s citizens have a right to know how members of the european parliament are voting’. on this occasion i agree with you, mr president. for our sake and for the sake of our standing in the dock of public opinion, we must resoundingly reject the idea floated by you and this idea of a secret ballot should be buried once and for all. that is why, for the resolution today, my group has tabled an amendment calling for a transparent decision on the mff so that all those members who have contacted me about it can put their feelings on the record, in public. of course, while we cannot override the rules of procedure, it would be a clear and unambiguous statement that the majority in this house want normal, democratic procedures to apply to our vote on the mff. i urge all members to support it. finally, let me turn to the positive growth agenda for tomorrow’s european council meeting. no one should be allowed to get away with the idea that we have to somehow choose between austerity and growth. sustainable growth is not achieved by throwing ever greater amounts of taxpayer’s money at the economy. it comes from having the right economies and the right policies in place, at the right time. that is why we welcome the initiative from the commission to publish a list of the ten most burdensome laws affecting small businesses. if every small business took on an extra member of staff, europe would have no unemployment crisis. we need a reform agenda which places the creation of jobs and wealth by successful businesses at its very heart. i call on all groups here to support that agenda.
blue-card answer. – mr president, before i answer the question, let me talk about your comments. you said in your speech to the european council that there should be a secret ballot on the mff and, of course, you said it on behalf of the leaders of the other political groups. the quote is on record. we can of course all read your speech. turning to mr tavares’ question, of course there are examples. latvia is a good example of a country that has consolidated its public finances. but what is your alternative? that we should just ignore the fact that we are spending ever-increasing amounts of money, that in many countries 25 or 30 % of their budget is borrowed money? do you not agree that this money has to be paid back eventually? where is this magic money tree that the socialists keep telling us all these resources will suddenly appear from so that we can spend our way to growth? in no country in the world are there examples where excessive amounts of public spending and public borrowing lead to long-term growth. the socialists are living in a fantasy world if they think that is the case.
mr president, i think i am the guilty man. it was not mr callanan, and it was not mr mcmillan-scott. i was the one that demanded a secret ballot on the issue of strasbourg and, of course, the reason, mr daul, was so that your members could vote for a single seat without fear of retribution from you. (laughter from the floor)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the air is thick with denial in this chamber this morning. there has been a major political event that has happened since we last met and no one has mentioned it: italy had an election. 55 % of the electorate voted for euro-sceptic political parties. indeed, mr grillo’s movement managed to get 26 %. it is quite tough in european politics these days to tell who the comedians are. what is absolutely clear is that eurozone membership is completely incompatible with nation state democracy. you can do what you like to take away the powers of national parliaments but people will go on voting, and there is a trend developing right across europe towards euro-sceptic parties getting and stronger. there is complete denial about the eurozone crisis. you would think listening to everybody this morning that it is over. mr barroso comes out with a technocratic speech that everything is fine and dandy. mind you, this was far better than the unutterable drivel we had from olli rehn yesterday, which sent many members to sleep. but the eu is not facing up to the consequences of what it has done. mr verhofstadt talks about a lost generation in spain; mr daul talks about youngsters struggling to be fed by their families in greece. all of that is true, but it is being caused by the euro – and that is what the eu is failing to recognise. the eurozone has been a complete economic disaster. but the real problem that the eu will not face up to though is the state of the french economy and the fact that france is now diverging by the month from germany. so right at the very heart of the european project and the eurozone project there is a disaster coming down the track. i am afraid that, in the end, the whole thing is going to break up. i would also point out that you are in denial over romania and bulgaria. those countries are wracked with corruption and organised crime. they should never have been allowed to join the european union and i want to make it absolutely clear: we in ukip do not believe it is right and fair to have total open borders from next year for unlimited numbers of people from those countries to come to britain to work but also, if they want, to claim benefits. as the results in the recent eastleigh by-election showed, the british electorate are increasingly saying that enough is enough. it is not just us: the mayor of duisberg in germany has now publicly said that the massive influx from romania and bulgaria is causing huge social problems. ladies and gentlemen, we have to face up to it. we should not be in political union with romania and bulgaria. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – let me give you some figures. they are not ones that i really feel comfortable talking about as they are so shocking. there are 68 000 romanians living in britain. over the course of the last five years in just one police area, the metropolitan police, there have been – believe it or not – 27 000 arrests of romanians. over 90 % of atm fraud that takes place in london is now being committed by romanian criminal gangs, and that is just the met figures. we have not got the figures from across the rest of the country. whilst with immigration you can get good people coming from other countries, you can also get bad people. the point i made in my speech is that i am afraid that romania and bulgaria are in the grip of organised crime. we do not want those people coming into our country.
mr president, once again europe’s leaders will meet for a late night supper. the agenda may talk of growth and jobs, but we have heard it all before and nothing improves. only lip service will be paid to jobs and growth. the real conversation over the foie gras will be how to save your beloved political project of european federalisation. the talk will be about how to keep italy in line after its comical election and how to downplay yet another country, cyprus, seeking a new bailout. british people know that problems come from europe and they pay for them with cold, hard cash and the reduction of essential public services. british people are getting more and more fed up with the european union. may i take this opportunity to thank mr barroso for helping with this. despite mr cameron’s attempts to knock a referendum into the long grass, the british people demand a referendum on our membership now. my constituents send a clear message to my office, week in, week out, which is that they do not want anything more to do with this corrupt and doomed mess that is the european union.
blue-card question. – we have had a series of speakers from the epp group telling us what we should be doing. mr daul said we must complete the single market; mr mitchell said we must have a stimulus; mr reul talks about structural reforms. gentlemen, your party has been the largest party in this house since 1999; it has dominated the council in most of those years, so why has it failed to do all of these things? under mr santer we had valetudinarianism at best. i suspect that mr barroso has never really believed in your party’s catholic communitarianism. will you not accept that you have failed and, if we end up with southern europe in flames, will you not accept that it is your fault? (applause)
mr president, can i first of all make it very clear that the alde group agrees with the cuts to the overall size of the mff budget. it demonstrates to our citizens that we have the ability to live within our means in these very difficult times. however, there are areas where we do want to see change. we need to see greater flexibility to spend a smaller budget more effectively and we need a guarantee of a review in 2016, when hopefully economic times are improving. there is no national government that is setting a seven-year austerity budget, and this institution should be not be forced into doing so. surely, though, our most important task is to find more money to invest in jobs and growth. every member in this debate has said that must be the priority. let us back that call for more investment by agreeing that the eur 4 billion increase for our administration should instead be used to invest in creating jobs and opportunity for our young people. that would show that this parliament is willing to put its money where its mouth is.
mr president, i was elected to represent wales in this parliament but, of course, we are talking about the european council meeting today and wales is represented in the council by the uk government. what that means is that the welsh national interest is not represented. the uk government, backed by the labour opposition, have been calling for more cuts in the european budget. those cuts would be devastating to the welsh economy. i should say that labour is split on this issue. in wales, where they form the government, they are actually opposing the cuts. the situation is now that wales is a net beneficiary of eu funding. our membership of the eu has helped us to build our economy and, like other countries, we need that support and solidarity to help us to overcome the crisis and build a better future for our young people. that is why i will be opposing the council cuts to the mff and supporting instead investment in sustainable jobs and communities, at the very time when the whole of europe needs it most.
mr president, unemployment is not falling, and is unlikely to do so in 2013. the value of the euro will not allow the countries of the south to emerge from recession. austerity programmes will not cure unemployment. you do not make countries richer by making them poorer. globalisation might make the emergent economies richer, but it will make european countries poorer. the single market might help low income member states, but only at the expense of higher income member states. uncontrolled immigration will make unemployment even worse. we heard earlier from a mr farage about immigration. is that the same mr farage who said in 2010, on 4 may, that the uk ought to issue a quarter of a million work permits each year? incidentally, the romanian citizens he was referring to were not ordinary romanians, they were roma.
mr president, before we start our voting procedure, may i enquire what has changed. we were warned that we are going to have two hours of voting with a whole series of amendments when i understood the position was that no committee would be allowed to bring forward that number of amendments. what has changed under the procedure? could you explain and, if that change has not been made, can i urge you to consider why this ridiculous state of affairs has been allowed to continue?
mr president, can i please draw your attention and the attention of the house to the fact that the british national flag outside this parliament building is hanging upside down. can i ask you on behalf of parliament to apologise to the british people for this insult to their flag, and can i ask you to suspend this sitting until the matter is rectified, please?
mr president, i am very grateful to you for that answer. accordingly, i move that this report be referred back to the committee on agriculture for proper consideration.
mr president, i have never heard a more ridiculous self-serving speech in all my time in this parliament. this amendment is very simple; it is so simple and clear that even a socialist could understand it. it merely says – it is one sentence – that we should hold the mff vote in an open and transparent manner. although i know that difficult concepts are hard for the socialists to grasp, this is fairly simple and straightforward. if you are in favour of an open and transparent vote, you vote ‘yes’. if you are not, you vote ‘no’. if you are a socialist and cannot decide, i suppose you sit on the fence. (laughter and applause)
mr president, you may have heard my earlier point of order to the president under rule 175, to which he seemed quite receptive, and accordingly i would like to move referral to committee back of all these dossiers from the committee on agriculture. i have no views one way or another about the substance; that is not the point. but bringing forward reports with this huge number of amendments is making a mockery of the way the plenary session is supposed to work. i suspect that many colleagues across the political spectrum would agree with this, and therefore i formally move referral back to the committee so it can get its act together and not bring forward these reports with this number of amendments in the future. (applause)
mr president, i would speak in favour of this motion. we have long been troubled in this house by committees failing to do their work and bringing forward too many amendments because they cannot make up their minds. i strongly support referring this back to the committee and telling our colleagues on the committee on agriculture and rural development to get ploughing and sort out their harvest. (laughter and applause)
mr president, i would like to give the house the opportunity not to vote on this cmo regulation. it has been very controversial. very large amounts of money are at stake in the private sector. it could result in the closing down of a cane refinery in britain. just to give you an idea of the extent of difficulty in our committee, when we first discussed it, the very first amendment was to scrap the whole thing and 11 out of 44 supported it. we owe it to our constituents for this to go back to committee in order to get a better resolution from it.
mr president, some of us had lunchtime engagements, which were important, and some of us are speaking again in a debate at 3 o’clock. could i ask at least that you put half an hour between the conclusion of the votes and the next part of the sitting. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the sad reflection is that by no account do matters seem to have improved in egypt at all in the two years since the fall of mubarak. any hope of progress in the middle east peace process depends very much on the security and stability of a country like egypt – egypt which of course signed the peace treaty with israel in 1979, the guardian of the empty spaces of sinai and with the ability to influence what happens in gaza and indeed more widely in the palestine authority areas. baroness ashton, you mention a further tranche of funding going to egypt. we have been very generous in aid to egypt in recent years. in fact, if we look back over the last six years, some eur 9 billion of funding has gone in that direction, both pre-mubarak and since mubarak. i wonder if you can reassure us that this money is well targeted and being well controlled. i also have another concern at the moment, which is the growth of unofficial policing groups – what you might call islamist vigilantes – sponsored by jama’a al-islamiyya and the muslim brotherhood imposing their own form of harsh and arbitrary discipline on helpless people. i would be most grateful for your comments on this and on how it is going to impact on the rule of law and freedom. could i ask your indulgence, mr president, because i wrote to baroness ashton a month ago about listing hezbollah as a terrorist organisation, but have not yet had her reply on this. we heard shimon peres speaking here, also making a plea for the listing of hezbollah, and i would very much appreciate her comments.
mr president, may i first congratulate you on the leadership you have shown when it comes to egypt. what we did yesterday, the united states is only coming forward with today, so well done european union on that front. however, i have to ask myself as a member of your taskforce, which went with the mantra of ‘more for more’, what does that mean? what has happened to the egyptian women who were tortured, raped and sexually abused in tahrir square on 25 january? today they are now presented simply as ‘women who asked for it’. that quite clearly is unacceptable. what does our ‘more for more’ mantra mean? when i look at the coptic christians and minorities, they are targeted, they are fleeing, they are persecuted. rather than seeing hope spreading through the region, today i see nervousness only. when i met with their parliament on two occasions, i heard the sort of language they speak, and as one lancastrian to another, you will know the very cool-headed approach that we take. i am sure commissioner füle, who was a witness to one of those parliamentary... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the illegal nuclear tests conducted by north korea last month clearly threaten regional and international security, and i therefore support tougher trade sanctions on the government there. however, there is a greater tragedy underlying recent developments. hidden behind north korea’s never-ending pursuit of nuclear weapons is the reality that much of its population has been deprived of food and many are living in forced labour camps. they are impoverished and alone. the world watch list ranks north korea as the most difficult place on earth to be a christian, with arrest and torture commonplace. this persecution is wholly unacceptable. parliament should use this debate today to promote the fundamental rights of freedom of association and religion. it should give a voice to the thousands of north koreans who refuse to give up hope that one day their faith may be recognised. vice-president/high representative, i am interested in your idea of a commission of inquiry and i would be grateful if, in your summing up, you could elaborate on how you see this working.
mr president, north korea remains one of the most isolated and brutal dictatorships in the world, with a dangerous nuclear programme which risks a regional nuclear arms race. the recent atomic tests and ballistic missile experiments with weaponising its nuclear payload mean that the international community, via the six powers, and the eu now, must redouble its efforts to get the dprk to sign the ctbt and reunify peacefully with the south. my personal suggestion is that the price for this is to get china fully on board and to ensure its cooperation – as it cannot tolerate the idea of us troops on its border – by the promise of a complete us demilitarisation of the korean peninsula and for a united, unified korea to become a member of the non-aligned movement (nam). we must remember that russia is still angry that nato expanded to east germany, which it wrongly claimed was promised would not happen, which is why china needs a very strong and huge carrot to abandon its north korean ally. an nam, reunited korea, with even perhaps a transitional government with elements of the dprk... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, each time we debate syria the situation appears more desperate. both sides are determined that they can win this war and seem content to entrench themselves in a battle of attrition regardless of the human cost. assad, in particular, has reached the stage where he is prepared to reduce his once great country to a wasteland of rubble and blood, all for the purposes of retaining power and escaping justice – a megalomaniac’s pyrrhic victory. it is all too easy to become desensitised, but we must continue to reinforce the scale of this barbarity: a staggering 70 000 civilians killed, and a million or more displaced people causing a full-blown refugee crisis which has the potential to destabilise the region, in particular jordan, lebanon and iraq. the lebanese government, in particular, has taken a laissez-faire attitude which has exposed traumatised refugees to even more suffering. as with so many crises of this kind, women and children have suffered the most. indeed one crucially under-reported feature of this war is the prevalence of rape as a weapon of terror. we also saw the ‘save the children’ report today which described children being used as informants and even as human shields. it is hard to know how much worse the situation could become before moscow feels compelled to do something to help or the free syrian army can become armed and prevent arms going to the salafists from the west, but in the meantime we must deploy every resource at our disposal to galvanise the international community and end this disaster.
mr president, syria is, of course, anything but a democracy, but not many countries in the middle east are, including of course its fiercest critic, saudi arabia. nor for that matter are all of mr assad’s opponents in syria democrats. the syrian government’s handling of the protest was, from the beginning, grossly disproportionate, but its brutality has sometimes been matched by the opposition. we can judge a regime also by its substantive policies. before the conflict, women were relatively liberated in syria. religious minorities, particularly christians, were free to worship without interference, although, of course, some christians have been attacked by islamist members of the opposition. it is all very well to bemoan the huge humanitarian toll of the conflict, but that is what happens when neither side is capable of winning decisively. it is also what happens when the protagonists are armed, albeit covertly, by outsiders. how long will it be before the armed forces of member states are dragged into the conflict and body bags start to be flown home to europe? how ethical was it, and is it, for the west to encourage other people to risk their lives to advance the west’s political agenda: that is, depriving iran of an ally and israel of an adversary? was regime change really worth 70 000 lives? the priority now must be to bring the bloodshed to an end. that can happen only when there are talks, without preconditions, on neutral territory.
mr president, i object. this is a democratic body. she is here to listen to us.
mr president, syria is being allowed to stew. on the one hand, we say to the people, stand up for your rights and fight for your freedom. on the other hand, we are leaving them to the mercy of this dictator. these are not my views, these are views that are expressed to me by ordinary people throughout the region. this is the message that they are beginning to receive. on top of that, what is their experience now in places like jordan? like lebanon? the immense pressures of refugees on ordinary people is becoming far too great for them to bear. whilst on the one hand we are seeking to get countries like the uea, like kuwait, like saudi arabia, to come on board and work with us in a coordinated fashion, even that is not going to be enough. my very final point is this: the eu embargo. it is due for renewal soon and it will not be our finest hour if any of our member states have to go it alone, but that will happen if leadership is not provided at an eu level.
mr president, in a dispute where up to 70 000 people have been killed and a million refugees have fled the country since the crisis began two years ago, the question must be posed: what good is baroness ashton? what is her highly expensive and ineffective eeas achieving to alleviate the situation? the answer is very little, just typical eu lip-service – or you are an expensive lipstick, mrs ashton. your authority is highly questionable. you represent 27 nations who have different outlooks. you have been heavily criticised here today by members of all political groups. indeed, mr cameron said the uk was still an independent country when threatening to veto an eu extension to the arms embargo. what does that make you? redundant? the situation in syria is deplorable. his royal highness the prince of wales has today visited a un refugee camp in jordan and described the situation as heart-breaking. what will you do? will you at least begin by putting hezbollah on the list of terrorist organisations?
dr tannock, before you start, can i also thank you personally for your help today to my colleague georgios papastamkos, after the accident.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i had only a minor role to play, with three other doctors, but when duty calls, we do our best in the circumstances. i was only concerned about the length of time it took for the ambulance and the emergency medics to come from the local hospital. it was far too long a delay, but we will talk about that some other time. the two-month-old mission to mali, led by france with some british support, has achieved its principle military objective of driving out the jihadi extremists from northern mali’s towns and villages and has saved the country from an immediate fate that does not bear thinking about. but the hard work is just beginning. the convergence of chronic political instability and ethnic resentment still remains and will become an easy target for foreign terrorists seeking to exploit the situation for their own perverted ends. the resulting collapse of human rights, which could potentially be felt for years to come, could provoke even more instability. we are now witnessing the start of a wearingly familiar insurgency of guerrilla warfare and islamist suicide bombers, previously unthinkable in what was apparently a stable democratic country. it goes without saying that once the french and the ecowas troops withdraw, they must be replaced by a full un peacekeeping mandate which is prepared to stay the course in the country for the foreseeable future. there must also be a just political settlement and process of national reconciliation and nation-building which respects mali’s territorial integrity but which acknowledges the tuareg people’s past legitimate grievances and incorporates them into the national systems of decision-making and sharing the resources of the country. certainly the brutal summary justice meted out by certain malian troops to tuaregs accused of collaboration must end immediately, with the criminal perpetrators being brought to justice. human rights in mali will be at the centre of my upcoming report on the sahel and i greatly hope that the european union, with its stabilisation and development skills, and the eu training mission to the armed forces of mali can work with the malians to rebuild their beautiful country and offer its citizens a peaceful, prosperous future.
before i announce the next speaker, can i just tell you that the new pope is jorge mario bergoglio of buenos aires, argentina. this has been announced at the vatican.
blue-card question. – mr kirilov, you used the phrase ‘selective justice’ in ukraine in your remarks, which i assume is an indirect way of referring to the imprisonment of mrs tymoshenko on what looked like trumped-up charges. in view of what you describe yourself as ‘selective justice’ should ukraine send a judge to the european court of human rights?
mr president, the ecr has always acknowledged the prc as a constructive and essential global partner, and i do hope that one day we will be able to welcome it into the family of nations as a peace-loving and democratic china, with full respect for human rights – a bit like taiwan. for the time being however, it remains a one-party communist dictatorship with an alarmingly dismissive attitude to the welfare of its own people. yet it cannot be ignored. the current crises in north korea and syria demonstrate the need for us to cooperate in the un in the interests of global peace. in particular, china should no longer be able to act as a lone friend to pariah states from sudan to the dprk and train missiles at friendly nations, while simultaneously demanding full international respectability. for this reason i welcome the report’s balanced stance. it appropriately considers the needs of taiwan, whose friendship group i chair in this parliament, particularly with regard to president ma’s plan for the de-escalation of tensions in the east china sea, where one false move could easily plunge china and japan into a potentially catastrophic war. there are also important amendments on tibet, whose people continue to be oppressed by a chinese government intent on destroying the tibetan people’s language and way of life. china, with over two trillion dollars in reserve, also needs to observe high standards of corporate governance in africa (i am the rapporteur for the horn of africa). we must ultimately hope that the ever more powerful chinese state, which is now the european union’s biggest trading partner, can prove to be a force for good in the world.
mr president, let me first convey my deep and profound personal regret that baroness ashton is not present. the high representative is much missed, as well, of course, as being very often missed. now to china. the eu seeks to impose its dogma on china far too often, for example on aero-engine emissions, an attempt which was unsuccessful. by contrast, if we look at the three efta countries, efta and china signed a trade agreement in 2011. more than that, trade between efta and china had increased at a rate of 12 % a year in the five years before that. this is how an independent uk, a uk outside the european union, would conduct its relationship with china. not as an adversary in the style of the eu, but similarly to the constructive friendship offered by those countries whose leadership is sensible enough and wise enough not to be part of the eu wannabe super-state.
mr president, congratulations to mr belder on a balanced report. sometimes we fall into the trap of treating a unified nation some 2 500 years old as though it was a small child that needs to be admonished. or we see china’s meteoric rise as a threat to so-called western supremacy. such apprehensions are immature and divorced from current reality. china is not a threat but an opportunity for us. during our financial crisis it pumped more money into our economy and kept us stable. it could have done nothing. instead it increased investment into the eurozone. it is doing so now. our jobs, our economy, our exports, our currency require china to be successful. china’s stability is our stability. our luxury brands are penetrating new chinese markets. we need more. we need more chinese investment into the eu to drive growth, growth that is now imperative. china has become one of the strongest proponents of a rule-based trading system. of course there remains, especially in the field of political liberties… (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am led to believe that china has invested in the greek economy, that china has put money into greece and italy, and also into spain. i do not have the exact figures, but i will find exact figures and give them to you.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, mutual societies and building societies were an excellent idea that originated in 18th century birmingham, and the idea caught on and enabled millions of people to buy their own homes when otherwise they would have been unable to do so. but they were not intended to be cross-border international entrepreneurial businesses. a much better idea is for individual nation states to adopt the idea and adapt it to fit in with their own national requirements. this statute, if adopted, will mean more unwanted eu legislation and probably lead to unforeseen, unwanted consequences and unintended consequences. if there is any case for international cross-border operation, then there is no reason why this could not be accomplished by sovereign nation states with intergovernmental agreements.
blue-card question. – mr president, my colleague talks about integrity, but maybe he would like to comment on the integrity of the eu in its last foray into professional football – the bosman ruling – which i would say has probably caused some of the problem. what it has done is taken the wealth from a lot of the smaller clubs and transferred it to the bigger clubs and created overpaid footballers, and underpaid footballers at a grassroots level. that is where the people who are involved in organised crime are actually attacking lower paid footballers. it is in the lower leagues that this match-fixing is taking place. the bosman ruling – an eu ruling – has created that problem.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the motion for a resolution on match-fixing and corruption in sport. match-fixing poses a real and present threat to the integrity of global sport. the scale of what europol’s investigation has uncovered is indeed concerning. many of us were shocked by the finding that there is a criminal network involved in fixing football matches across europe, with 380 matches deemed suspicious. match-fixing and corruption is not only affecting the high levels of sport, but many allegations also involve matches in the lower divisions around europe as well. i have to say that i am very much in favour of sport autonomy. normally, i do not think we should interfere too much when the sports organisations themselves have ways of solving problems. however, when corruption is as endemic and widespread as this investigation illustrates, we are duty-bound to consider what intervention is necessary in order to tackle this growing problem. the people behind match-fixing are often linked to organised crime. it can, for example, be organised crime syndicates based outside of europe who are operating with criminal networks inside europe, but at our end, and inside our borders, we have to make sure that the involvement of organised crime in sport is not gainful in europe. i believe that the exchange of information is vital in the fight against match-fixing and corruption in sport. these discussions must also take place at a global level, as these issues are not simply an eu-internal matter. finally, the integrity of sport is also vital for the gambling industry. my ecr colleague, ashley fox, has also addressed this problem of match-fixing in his draft report on online gambling, and i also intend to raise this matter in the opinion of the committee on culture and education. we need enhanced cooperation to tackle this problem. we must all do all we can to protect the integrity of sport, which we all love.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, if i am in good shape it is not because i play football. i would happily admit that i know absolutely nothing about sport, but i do know a little bit about match-fixing. first of all, let me say that this report calls for a specialised law enforcement unit to combat match-fixing. well, i am pleased to tell you we have already got one in the united kingdom, it is called the police force. having said that, in terms of match-fixing, the eu has been involved in a few fixed matches itself. back in 1975, in the referendum in the uk on membership of the eu, that was a fixed match, when the central intelligence agency of the usa put enormous amounts of money into the ‘yes’ campaign and there was a concerted effort by the bbc and other organs of the media to actually fix the result. there was a fixed match in 1992 in denmark when the referendum delivered the wrong result and they were told to go back and have a re-match until they came up with the right result. there was a fixed match in france and holland on the constitution when they came up with the wrong result, but rather than have the re-match, actually they changed the terms of the game and declared it a win anyway. and, of course, ireland had a match fixed when it delivered the wrong result on the lisbon treaty, and then had to go back and have a re-match until it got the right result. so if there is going to be some kind of investigative body to look at fixed matches, i suggest we start with the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i happily admit i know nothing about sport. i pretend to have no knowledge of it whatsoever. in terms of international crime, there is already an international crime organisation called interpol, which is there to share information, and there are national police forces that are there to pursue crime in their individual nation states. so i cannot see why you need yet another new body to do something that is already catered for by existing police forces and interpol. i do not know why you imagine that some other body, created by the european union, is going to be any more efficient than all the other bodies created by the european union.
mr president, this issue is close to my heart, as a lover of sport and a football season-ticket holder and sponsor of football at all levels, including grassroots. it is a problem that needs to be addressed. some people like to call it the beautiful game. clearly, we are learning that football is becoming noticeably more grubby and sullied. according to experts, as many as ten matches a week in europe are now affected by match-fixing. the numbers of games affected worldwide is astonishing. however, it is not enough to look at this issue from a purely european perspective. can we trust the eu commission, with its history of corruption, to clear up sport? maybe it is a ‘poacher turned gamekeeper’. match-fixing is an endemic problem across the world. until nations and football authorities get their houses in order, how can we expect anything to change? take a look at fifa, for example, a body that has been dogged by accusations of corruption; or the fa back in my own country that fails to implement a working fit-and-proper-persons test, which allows vulnerable clubs to fall into the wrong hands. many of the players that get caught up in match-fixing accusations are often poorly paid, poorly educated and poorly protected. it is not enough for europol to investigate this problem. uefa has far more member countries than the eu, so proposed eu action would be an irrelevance. it is about time that we had transparent football authorities and legislation from national governments to stamp out this organised crime in football once and for all. i believe football can be beautiful again.
rapporteur. − mr president, the fact that we did find asbestos here is all the more reason to establish a full register to ascertain exactly where it is to be found, so that we can plan safety for workers when maintenance uncovers it, and we can plan its safe removal up until 2028. (applause)
mr president, i have a point of order and a question. the point of order is just to point out that today we concluded the voting, with a lot of yesterday’s voting, within 45 minutes. i think this shows that yesterday’s voting could have been shared over today. my question is, could you please advise what the situation is concerning yesterday’s explanations of vote?
mr president, spring heralded many positive changes in this politically repressed part of the world, but it is our duty now to ensure that women’s rights do not suffer from the continuing upheavals and increased extremism in the region. women played a fundamental role in the north african revolts, but the appalling sexual abuse perpetrated by the security forces, and the continued practice in some countries of forced marriage and female genital mutilation, demonstrate that a revolution counts for little if the state fails to protect its most vulnerable citizens. in my role as rapporteur for human rights in the sahel and western sahara, i am witnessing how women too often bear the brunt of war, political strife and chronic poverty. we must do all we can now to help our partners in african countries to improve women’s access to healthcare, education and decision-making, end legally sanctioned discrimination and reverse once and for all the acceptability of sexual violence as a weapon of war.
in writing. − i supported this report which deals with women’s rights. many women were active during the arab spring and they now have the challenge of translating that civic fight into political action. i hope that the work we have been doing in wales on participation can assist them in their work.
in writing. − i supported this report, which calls on the north african countries to adopt laws and concrete measures prohibiting, and laying down penalties for, all forms of violence against women, including domestic and sexual violence, sexual harassment and harmful traditional practices, such as female genital mutilation and forced marriages, especially in the case of underage girls. the report also stresses the importance of the protection of victims and of the provision of specific services, and welcomes the recent campaign against domestic violence launched by the tunisian minister for women and family affairs, and the ongoing commitment to this cause on the part of morocco, which in 2012 organised its tenth national campaign to tackle violence against women.
in writing. − the aim of the report has been to highlight the achievements women have attained, but also to point out the continuing difficulties and potential pitfalls women still have to face in their quest for equality, and finally how eu instruments should be used to support women’s rights and gender equality. whilst constitutions for countries recently emerging from the arab spring are being drafted, it is vital to keep a political focus on women’s rights in this region, to ensure an improvement in equality across the board.
mr president, the legacy of hundreds of years of european history dictates that there are many far away territories that still fall under the sovereignty of member states. while not officially eu territory, they nevertheless deserve our political and financial support. as the parliament’s nominated representative for the british overseas territories, i have witnessed the competitive potential of these economies and seen how the eu might help and give some real value. nevertheless, octs are not immune from the effects of the global crisis and we cannot dramatically increase our funding to them when mainland populations are experiencing severe spending cuts. i greatly hope that the tirolien report will emphasise strengthening the economic competitiveness and resilience and reducing the vulnerability of the territories and that it will also deliver development to these territories, which they need and deserve. i was also proud of the falklanders who showed their overwhelming allegiance to britain in their referendum a couple of days ago, so ‘hands off’ to argentina.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report in order to continue cooperation between the eu and africa, the caribbean, pacific states and overseas countries and territories for the next multi-annual financial framework of 2014-2020. i see wales’s future firmly within the european union and by that means playing our full part in the international arena.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which calls once again for the budgetisation of the european development fund (edf), as this would contribute to the more effective promotion of union priorities and thematic support and would enhance the visibility, as well as the consistency, of the eu’s actions as the world’s largest donor of development aid. the report invites the commission to present a roadmap for the budgetisation of the edf after 2020, containing details on the timeline and procedure for its inclusion in the union budget.
mr president, last month 27 heads of state got together and agreed the first ever cut in the eu budget, and yesterday 500 meps said they wanted more money. money does not grow on trees and the eu budget needs a complete root-and-branch review. we need to stop spending money at an international level if that money could be spent better – and provide better value for money – at a local level. we should be spending money only where international collaboration really adds value.
mr president, since i became an mep i have been fighting for a reduction in the eu budget. the economic growth promised by the lisbon agenda and financed by the current long-term budget has instead brought economic stagnation. i fully support the deal negotiated by the british prime minister at the european council. it represents the first cut in the eu budget since 1993. i have therefore voted in favour of my group’s mff resolution which endorses the agreement reached by the prime ministers of the 27 member states early in february 2013. like other political groups, the ecr emphasises the need to spend more efficiently, rather than simply spend more. it enshrines sound financial management as the guiding principle of the eu budget. i regard the rejection of the council agreement by the other groups as a slap in the face of european taxpayers. we should lead by example and share the austerity burden; instead the european parliament has shown its gluttony.
mr president, the annual budget and the multiannual financial framework (mff) are the anchor and core around which the entire eu functions, and nothing that the eu does can take place without them. the importance of the annual budget and the mff cannot be overstated. agreeing the seven-year budget-cap mff is therefore the most precious responsibility that we meps have: it is a power both material and symbolic. in material terms, the case for agreeing the budget is clear: the member states took the collective admirable stance that eu spending could not continue in its current form while domestic budgets were being slashed. it is a simple principle of fairness which we must uphold, but the parliament’s greater power is the symbol of democratic accountability. we are directly elected, we are accountable to the tax-paying constituents who elect us and we represent their interests. members can, of course, vote against this mff as they did yesterday – albeit cosmetically – in the package. but let them answer for that decision publicly and not seek to hide from the citizens who put them here, as it was suggested that they do with the idea of a secret ballot – which, frankly, outraged us all.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament’s resolution on the multiannual financial framework (mff) because i reject the european council’s conclusions on the mff of 7-8 february 2013, as it completely disregards parliament’s role and competences. further, it does not reflect the priorities that are necessary to achieve job creation and sustainable economic development. this not withstanding, i strongly disagree with the call for the introduction of new genuine own resources and that revenues from a financial transaction tax should be allocated to the eu budget. equally, i do not support the proposal to make full use of the passerelle clause of article 312(2) tfeu, which would transfer power from the member states to eu level. i tabled amendments to delete these parts of the mff resolution and my vote in favour of the resolution as a whole is not to be taken as support for these parts, but rather, only for the view that the european council’s conclusion should be rejected.
in writing. − whilst i fully endorse this house’s competences on budgetary matters, i reject the conclusions reached in this resolution. across europe, public sector workers who provide vital services have seen pay cuts, some in real terms, some in actual terms, in recent years. the eu should not be immune to these pressures and in our negotiations we must recognise that an increased budget is not realistic.
in writing. − i voted against this report, but nevertheless welcome paragraph 5 which ‘denounces the lack of transparency in the way the political agreement was reached by the european council on both the expenditure and the revenue side of the mff; insists that it must have all relevant information at the disposal of the commission on the level of agreed national allocations under cohesion and agricultural policies, including the derogations and specific allocations to each member state; also requests all relevant information on the impact per member state of the decisions taken on the revenue side of the mff’.
in writing. − labour meps voted against calls to reject the mff budget deal. we fully support measures to boost jobs and growth, putting money into research and development, infrastructure and combating youth unemployment, but this must be done through efficient and effective spending. furthermore, the report calls for the phasing out of rebates, which cannot be considered as an option without serious reform of the cap. labour meps fully support proposals to increase flexibility in the budget and believe that a mid-term review is needed in order to reassess priority spending in future years.
in writing. − when david cameron and the other heads of government struck a deal to reduce the eu’s 7-year budget by €12 billion the prime minister said, ‘i think the british people can be proud.’ i am duly proud of the decision to offer long overdue savings to the beleaguered taxpayer. which is why i am ashamed that meps have put forward a resolution which ‘rejects this agreement in its current form’. i voted against this resolution and i deplore the tub-thumping rhetoric of this house. the european parliament is trying to flex its muscles while ignoring its citizens who are crying out for a cut-back, streamlined european union. i am at least pleased that this resolution sends out a clear signal to those members who wished to conduct the business of the house behind closed doors. it is curious that a parliament which desires democratic legitimacy should wish to vote on a matter as important as the 7-year budget in secret. citizens deserve to know how their meps voted. and i hope that citizens who feel let down by those members who choose to reject budget savings will express their displeasure at the ballot box.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. in order to obtain better levels of transparency, it is important that the eu is able to make available comparable, up-to-date and reliable information on the structure and developments in the economic situation of the member states. it is equally important that the esa 95 regulation is revised. esa is used for administrative purposes such as own resources, structural funds and excessive deficit procedure. wales receives a large amount of funding through the structural funds and it is important that eu institutions and governments are provided with the necessary information and statistics on which to base their decisions to decide who receives further funding.
in writing. − accurate statistics are vital to good decision-making and so i welcome this report.
in writing. − this regulation sets the rules to be followed for the compilation and the publication of essential macroeconomic data in the eu. in practice, the commission proposal is an extensive revision of the european system of national and regional accounts (european system of accounts - esa), building on the latest revision of the united nations’ system of national accounts (sna -adopted in 2008), and going into more detail. statistics are at the heart of public debate: independent, reliable, comparable and timely data is necessary for policy makers as well as economic actors and citizens to measure, evaluate and monitor the economic reality and its developments. every effort should be made to ensure that the revised esa will provide eu citizens with the highest quality macro-economic statistics, based on sound methodology and delivered according to a precise timetable.
in writing. − representing the maritime nation of scotland, i fully understand the importance of the issues dealt with in this report. incorporating the mlc into eu law will ensure proper enforcement for all eu vessels.
in writing. − i believe that flag state control aspects of the 2006 maritime labour convention (mlc) should be enshrined on the level of eu law in a more detailed and specific way. a major advantage of incorporating the mlc into eu law is that it will provide it with a much stronger enforcement regime within the eu, e.g. through eu infringement procedures, which would strengthen compliance even further. eu provisions on flag state control should reflect much more what the mlc specifically and expressly requires, to avoid different interpretations by member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
mr president, i find it ludicrous that this house is trying to push ahead on the negotiation of the 2014 budget, on the one hand, while on the other it refuses to back the agreement made by heads of state on the seven-year budget starting next year. on top of this, the guidelines on the 2014 budget refer to extra payments that need to be covered for past and current years, with the amounts remaining totally unclear. the commission and parliament insist on using the word ‘deficit’, whereas this concept does not apply to the eu budget, as revenues are raised from member states to cover the agreed budget. it is time for parliament and the council to call on the commission to assume its responsibility on the budget and its implementation by providing reliable accounting information as to where and when eu taxpayers’ money is being spent. i am not therefore in a position to vote in favour of the jensen report.
mr president, i want to comment on the extraordinary decision by this chamber to mark no-smoking day by voting to subsidise the growing of tobacco. there is a paradox in how this parliament, like the eu more widely, responds to smoking. with one hand we harass and victimise smokers: not content with the rules on cigarette advertising, we have even seriously debated in this chamber whether you should be allowed to smoke in your private car, because if it was sold second-hand that might constitute a form of passive smoking. yet at the same time, with the other hand, we are advancing subsidies to growers for the export of their product. how can we reconcile these two apparently contradictory positions? the truth is that they are both about power. they are not really about tobacco at all. they both draw more client groups into reliance on the eu. the tobacco lobbies, the anti-smoking lobbies and the growers all develop a dependent relationship. marvel at the eu’s hideous strength!
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it specifies that the payments’ level of the 2014 budget should be based on realistic needs to avoid the under-budgeting we have witnessed during previous years. programmes such as erasmus ran out of money before the end of 2012. this is unacceptable. in 2011, 630 students from welsh universities went on erasmus exchanges; an erasmus exchange is a valuable experience and we need to ensure that this can continue.
in writing. − this resolution recalls the particular nature of the eu budget, which amounts to only 1 % of the eu gdp and is an investment budget with a strong leverage effect; underlines that 94 % of it goes back to the member states and european citizens through its policies and programmes, and therefore should not be seen as an additional burden but as a tool to boost investment, growth and jobs in europe; emphasises that, for the regions and member states, public investment would be minimised or impossible without the contribution of the eu budget; believes that any decrease in the eu budget would inevitably increase imbalances and hamper the growth and competitive strength of the entire union economy, as well as its cohesiveness, and would undermine the principle of solidarity as a core eu value; is of the opinion that the demand for ‘more europe’ is meaningless when it is accompanied by proposals for the drastic reduction of eu funds
mr president, it is extraordinary the way the number of people in this chamber keeps on growing. a cynic might almost think that that was the primary purpose of eu elections. i am reminded rather of the long parliament in the uk, which in the name of democracy fought a great civil war, but never got around to dissolving itself and holding fresh elections for mandates for new members. so every time a new country goes in, the upper limit of meps keeps rising. although we occasionally say that we should put a cap on it, it somehow never gets around to happening. sometimes i am told that i have nothing positive to contribute, that i am only ever cynical when i make these speeches. let me end with a very practical and positive contribution. i look forward to a referendum in the uk within the next five years that will result in the elimination of my job. we will then be able to have perhaps 60 or 70 fewer members of the european parliament. that would be our last, parting gift to european democracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the lisbon treaty sets the maximum number of meps at 751. when croatia joins the eu as a full member, the total number of meps will be 766. this means that a number of member states will lose seats. the apportionment of seats to ‘ideal’ numbers would be quite harsh for a number of member states as some might gain or lose up to 3-4 seats. this proposal to spread out the number of seats reduced more evenly among the member states is much fairer. it is important to note that the lisbon treaty also sets the minimum number of meps a country can have at 6, if wales were an independent country we would have 9 meps.
in writing. − now that membership of this house has been capped at 751, it is virtually inevitable that there will be future amendments to its composition. macedonia, iceland, montenegro, serbia and turkey are all candidate countries, whilst albania, bosnia and herzegovina, and kosovo are potential candidates. if and when they join, existing member states will lose members. this is accepted as a price worth paying for an enlarged eu. it seems obvious that a similar recalculation will take place in the event of scottish independence. according to calculations which are the subject of today’s vote, scotland should be entitled to around double its current 6 meps. those who argue that other member states will object to this reallocation are effectively closing the door on any future enlargement.
in writing. − when its accession treaty enters into force, croatia will be assigned 12 seats in parliament. this report creates a pragmatic solution to accommodate these new members without significantly disadvantaging any existing member state (no state will lose more than one mep). i welcome this solution but hope the next parliament can find a formula which allows for an automatic redistribution of seats.
in writing. − i voted against this report not because i do not want to decrease the amount of meps far from it. i actively campaign for my own redundancy and the other 72 uk meps. i voted for the previous defeated amendment to call for the matter to be referred to an independent body to determine to size and make-up of future parliaments. politicians should not determine alone how they are to be elected. also, this report allows for enlargement. something i am opposed to. the eu cannot deal with itself at the moment let alone getting larger. to those countries that will lose an mep, they should not worry, when the uk leaves they will have 73 seats to redistribute.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as it rejects the commission’s definition of absinthe. the commission proposes to establish a minimum anethole level for absinthe of 0.5 grams per litre. not all traditional recipes in all member states provide for a minimum anethole level and many products with a lower level would fall outside the definition. this would mean that they would no longer be allowed to use the term ‘absinthe’ as sales denomination. many of my constituents in wales make their own food and drink; it would be unacceptable if they had to change the name of their products after what could be many years of fabrication.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution rejecting a legal definition of absinthe. absinthe is a spirit drink traditionally produced in several member states and has not until now been defined as a product category in annex ii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008.
in writing. − as most of us are well aware, spirits can be quite enjoyable, but also quite dangerous. people produce, trade, and partake in spirits across member states. although they have much to offer economically and socially, spirits must be well regulated to prevent abuse. but this must be done in a practical manner. the proposed definition of ‘absinthe’ into the spirit drinks regulation is not in line with traditional production methods, which could detrimentally affect the industry. furthermore, the minimum level of thujone stipulated by the definition contradicts efforts to remove this potentially harmful substance altogether from this spirit drink. there is a counter-argument that this definition would not pose any potential health risks to consumers. along with this, the benefits of introducing a single market definition would harmonise the industry. in this lucrative and widespread business, proposals for regulations must be carefully considered with both the producers and consumers in mind.
mr president, my problem with this reform of the common agricultural policy is that it does not feel ‘common’ and it is not good for agriculture. instead of a level playing field, it has been a matter of every man for themselves and every country for themselves. we now have a policy which will penalise some of our largest, most productive farms just at a time when we need more food production. instead of allowing us to export and share best practice in how farmers care for the environment, we are moving backwards – to set-aside and compulsory crop rotation. instead of policies to bring our farmers closer to the market, we have a backward step that could return us to the days of butter mountains, milk lakes and even some tobacco slagheaps. this is not good for farming or for food, and it is not good for the environment either.
in writing. − the commission proposal plans to ‘green’ 30% of the single farm payment in the reformed cap. however, it is likely that greening is in actuality little more than a tactic designed to preserve a larger cap budget rather than actually to help farmers to become less dependent on support. we need instead to realise that, in many cases, farmers are already initiating their own ‘green’ improvements and trust that they have the ‘on the ground’ expertise to best decide how they should be implemented. it is also vital that we fully remove coupled support from our cap. directly linking payments to the production of a specific product distorts the market and keeps uncompetitive farmers producing the same product, regardless of the market’s demand. what we must avoid at all costs is a regression to the interventionist policies of the past that undermined our farmers and ignored consumer demand. it is our responsibility as members of this parliament to help farmers reach a position in which they require less direct support. in order to achieve this we must work together to drive a functioning, competitive market and ensure equitable and fair reform across the eu that actually helps our farmers and takes into account their expertise.
in writing. − the farming industry is very important to wales and their interests need to be upheld. this is why i voted in favour of this proposal. in wales, farmers already have many greening measures in place. this report proposes several greening measures which would ensure that farmers in my constituency receive the direct payments they are owed. however, the outcome of greening measures after voting was not as positive as i had hoped. the proposal also changes the language regarding ‘crop rotation’ to ‘crop diversification’. this is positive for farmers in wales as crop rotation is neither economically nor environmentally viable.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal as i believe parliament has lost a golden opportunity to green the common agricultural policy.
in writing. − i have decided to vote in favour of this mandate for trialogue because, although these reports are far from perfect, i think any delay in the cap timetable would have devastating consequences. i hope parliament’s negotiating team manages to achieve a result which represents the wishes of this house. i want to see a cap reform which is fit for purpose, reduces red tape, and demands a viable prosperous future for europe’s agri-food sector. i expect to see negotiations which are transparent and timely. i wish the irish presidency luck in securing a good deal for all of ireland, and its farmers and those communities which rely on the cap for their survival.
in writing. − i voted against the single cmo regulation. as a british conservative member of the european parliament, i believe that a competitive and productive agricultural sector is more important than ever. i represent many farmers in the north-west of england, and this proposal will clearly be taking my region’s highly productive agricultural sector backwards. this is totally unacceptable. i see this as a clear a situation where more europe will damage the development of a competitive, efficient and market-orientated european agricultural industry. i find it appalling that so many members of the european parliament on the agriculture committee voted to exempt agriculture from eu competition law. this clearly calls into question the credibility and trustworthiness of eu decision making with industry, consumers and taxpayers. we need a modern proposal that is fit for the 21st century, not one taking british farmers back decades.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal as i strongly support the elimination of all export subsidies.
in writing. − on behalf of the eplp i would like to say that parliament has missed a great opportunity to radically reform the cap. in fact parliament has been more conservative than the european commission, preferring to carry on with the same old discredited system. we have rejected greening, we have refused to move funds from direct subsidy in pillar 1 to rural development in pillar 2, we have left open the issue of export subsidies to the detriment of developing countries and we have clearly voted in favour of inefficient farmers at the expense of efficient farmers. if you add to this a stubborn resistance of this farmer-dominated agriculture committee to even entertain environmental protection and rural sustainability or any change to end subsidies for a more market-orientated system, then it becomes apparent that this whole process has become a farce. what we have done today is not reform, it is not even the beginning of reform. that is why i and my british labour colleagues will vote against all these proposals.
mr president, agriculture and cap support to rural communities is a common thread across all eu member states, but the industry varies in importance, from those whose economies rely on productive farming, such as poland, to those with a much smaller agricultural sector such as my country, the uk. for all of us, rural development is the key to a healthy agricultural industry, but ultimately, i would like to see radical downsizing of the whole cap scheme. the general framework of this regulation is acceptable, as many of its measures will be voluntary for member states, allowing each country to address the specific needs of its own industry. while i totally reject the need for double funding for greening, and extended risk-management tools, i stand behind the regulation pragmatically and appreciate the independence it gives to individual member states. agriculture may be a common thread amongst all of us, but clearly things like tobacco subsidies, compulsory crop rotation and export subsidies are totally unacceptable.
in writing. − the reform of the cap gives us an incredible opportunity to streamline our agricultural policy and reduce market distortions that cripple our competitiveness. however, the proposed legislation has several issues that should be addressed. at a time in which we face a crisis of competiveness, the proposed double-funding of agri-environment payments is simply wasteful. we should move to strip double funding from the cap altogether, rooting out any existing overlaps between the eu greening and pillar 2 aes commitments. due to the eu council negotiations, there will be less money for pillar 2 of the cap. with resources scarce, it is essential that we target the remaining funds intelligently and with a view to increasing the competitiveness of eu farmers, reducing their dependency on support payments. finally, rural development funding needs to be distributed according to an objective and fair criteria. currently, the uk, despite being one of the main net contributors to the cap, has the lowest allocation of subsidies per hectare (gbp 188/hectare – almost half that of holland (gbp 346)) and will suffer the largest reduction in pillar 2 in the next budget. as long as british farmers continue to work within the single market, we should be treated fairly under that common framework.
in writing. − i voted in this report to eliminate double funding. allowing double payments for the same practice is unacceptable.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal because of the re-inclusion of requirements on sheep eid. sheep eid is unworkable and it is unacceptable that european sheep producers are to be denied any level of tolerance if they fail to read electronic identification tags correctly. this piece of legislation would put welsh farmers at a disadvantage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as part of the overarching regulation which governs the financing of all cap payments, along with the rules on reporting, monitoring and complying with the regulations necessary to grant and receive payments, which constitute the common agricultural policy (cap). the report includes a number of significant changes, such as more proportionality in cap fines, based on the nature and severity of the infringement; no automatic fines for minor breaches such as ear tag losses or eid faults; more flexible and risk-based approaches to controls and checks; and changes in cross-compliance rules with a view to reducing the burden on farmers. as a result, i support this regulation and the opening up of negotiations with the council, which i hope will lead to a more market-oriented and competitive farming policy, serving consumers and producers alike.
in writing. − i regret the parliament has adopted a weak mandate for negotiations on cap reform.
mr president, energy security will, in many ways, be the key to the future prosperity of my country and all other member states – which must think long-term and be forward-looking in this respect. it is crucial that we seek ways to diversify our energy sources and thus to protect all european countries from external influences which affect costs for consumers and threaten energy security. i commend the adoption of all the amendments calling for greater promotion of nuclear energy. this source has the potential to increase the self-sufficiency in energy production of all the member states, while also reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. however, while i support these facets of the report, some sections remain vague and unclear. i would appreciate more concrete long-term targets for the eu with regard to energy options leading up to 2050. the report is also timely in other respects, and it is necessary in order for the eu to move successfully into the future with a plan for energy production and consumption. we must, however, be clear in our intentions and provide ourselves with definite and definitive goals, because external energy security is clearly a very important consideration, particularly in relation to the common foreign and security policy, with which i am involved.
mr president, our energy infrastructure requires long-term investment, and for long-term investors we need long-term strategies. indeed, at a time when we are fighting across the world for that investment, we need international and global leadership. i am concerned when european policies simply send manufacturing to other parts of the globe, and the eu’s ets urgently needs looking at. however, it needs to be looked at in a long-term – and not just a sticking-plaster – way. this review has been a missed opportunity.
in writing. − i voted for this report which highlights the importance of the eu’s energy policy amidst the economic and financial crisis; emphasises the role that energy plays in spurring growth and economic competitiveness and creating jobs in the eu; calls on the commission to propose post-2020 strategies and to present, as soon as possible, a 2030 policy framework for a eu energy policy; believes that this policy framework should be consistent with the eu’s 2050 decarbonisation agenda and that it should take into account the ‘no regrets’ options identified in the roadmap; calls for action to be taken to minimise the energy sector’s negative impact on the environment, while taking into account the effects of the action taken on the competitiveness of national economies and the eu economy, as well as on the citizens’ security of energy supply.
in writing. − london currently faces a pollution crisis. it will likely exceed air pollution limits imposed by the air quality directive this year – affecting the health of hundreds of thousands of londoners, especially children and older people. the s&d was commited on this report to calling for binding targets for greenhouse gases, renewables and efficiency. these conditions are more important than ever for my london constituents, with the city’s failure to meet its emissions targets, and the prospect of new, high-pollution concerns, such as the south london incinerator, likely to gain planning permission in the near future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which highlights parliament’s position on the commission’s proposals regarding the eu’s energy agenda up to 2050. it is important to establish long-term goals in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing renewable energy use and improving energy efficiency, something which this resolution sets out to do. addressing the social problems precipitated by fuel poverty and the rising cost of energy is also a preoccupation in the report. we need a clean, sustainable energy system fit for the future to provide competitiveness and energy independence, reducing imports and investing domestically – binding targets are key to this.
mr president, nuclear power is the energy of the present and the future; it is cleaner in terms of greenhouse gas emission, and more efficient and more sustainable than any other prominent energy source. it is crucial that we recognise the potential of nuclear energy. it is also crucial that we do so cautiously. stress tests on nuclear power plants are very necessary to ensure the safe production of this form of energy. these plants must be able to withstand strain such as that associated with earthquakes. the need to guarantee and monitor safety measures should not be misconstrued as a negative quality of nuclear power production, but rather a necessary regulation for a highly beneficial industry and to reassure the public. while regulatory measures are essential, there is no need to encode them only at international level. member states are also capable of monitoring plants within their borders and are better able to assess geographically-specific concerns.
mr president, i am extremely proud that in my region we have just opened the planning process for the next generation of nuclear power. it is the power of the future, but it is also important that we learn the lessons of the past and look at past accidents and try and make sure that they do not happen again. therefore, i support the nuclear stress tests. however, i do not support the power grab by this parliament. european policy on nuclear energy is not a competence of this parliament under the euratom treaty or under the european treaty. therefore, i voted against this report, which called for more power for the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i do not feel that the ‘stress tests’ that have been carried out are thorough enough. key elements are missing from the report, such as ageing technology and human error. the commission’s decision that all eu nuclear plants should be subject to safety assessments was made in the wake of the fukushima disaster. in wales we have one working nuclear power station and checks need to be properly carried out to ensure a disaster such as fukushima does not happen in wales or anywhere else in europe.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. while it is worth recalling that after the fukushima accident in japan in march 2011, 145 reactors in 15 eu member states were tested to assess whether nuclear power plants here could withstand a natural disasters. the checks showed that nearly all nuclear power plants need safety improvements. nevertheless, it is right that this resolution calls for new proposals on nuclear insurance and liability to be put forward by the end of 2013.
mr president, human rights constitute one of the cornerstones of the foundations of the union. as we encourage other nations across the globe to uphold and enforce fundamental civil and political rights, we must ourselves uphold the highest standards within the european union. we must also continue to strive towards fair and just treatment for all our citizens. in this light, i commend the joint resolution on racism, xenophobia and hate crimes. hate crimes have no place in a modern european society and must not be tolerated. as israeli president peres said this week in his moving keynote address in plenary, one of the inspirations of the founding of the european union was the determination that europe must never again see a repeat of the 1930s and the rise of the extremist ideologies that led to the holocaust. we must address those worrying issues within and across our national borders in order to prevent discrimination and intolerance. we must also encourage equal treatment for all of our citizens throughout the european union.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution with its call for a comprehensive strategy for fighting hate crime, bias violence and discrimination.
in writing. − this joint resolution, which calls for the commission, the council and the member states to strengthen the fight against racism, xenophobia and hate crimes, has my full support. discrimination is a widespread problem throughout the eu but many incidents go unreported and perpetrators are not punished. it is essential that the framework decision for racism and xenophobia is revised to include religious issues, intolerance against roma and sexual orientation, so that all kinds of behaviour aimed at inciting violence or hatred are criminalised. all forms of racism, xenophobia and hate crimes are completely incompatible with the eu’s values and principles, and action must be taken to combat all forms of discrimination.
mr president, we all strive to protect our constituents from undue harm when possible. health risks certainly fall within this remit. when addressing these risks, it is our duty to assess them logically and react according to the seriousness of the risk. this report on endocrine disrupters would apply drastic precautions that are disproportionate to the reality of the known science on the subject. how can we take action against substances that are not yet even scientifically defined, or detected in sufficient quantities in our food chains? the report contradicts itself, admitting that scientific knowledge of the risk of endocrine disrupters is currently limited, but claiming that all endocrine-disrupting chemicals have adverse effects, even at the very lowest of exposures. while prevention is of the utmost importance when it comes to matters of health, such measures must be proportionate and based on science. the precautions prescribed by this report are neither, and are, i fear, a great overreaction to a still unclear threat. while we must be vigilant and continue to explore the role of endocrine disrupters on health, we must do so pragmatically and responsibly. we must also think of the economic consequences of reacting disproportionately in these matters.
in writing. − endocrine disrupters are associated with various human health problems including reduced fertility. they can act at very low doses, which makes them especially dangerous. this is why i voted in favour of this report which calls for a reduction in human exposure to endocrine disrupters, and assessment and updating of relevant eu legislation. it is important that i use my vote in parliament towards protecting the health of my constituents in wales.
in writing. − the increased incidence of hormone-related disorders and illnesses in humans needs to be taken very seriously indeed. the endocrine system regulates much of what happens in the body, including reproduction, metabolism, growth, salt and water balance and cardiac function. there is a disturbing trend particularly with regard to human reproductive capacity, where endocrine disruptors are thought to be a contributory factor. the precautionary principle is, and must remain, a major plank of the eu’s chemicals policy. the fact that we do not know everything cannot be used as a pretext for inactivity. the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment are simply too great. at present there are some 27 000 research reports dealing with endocrine disruptors and their effects on humans and animals. a number of disturbing trends may be observed.
in writing. − an endocrine disruptor is a substance which alters the function of the body’s hormone system, causing adverse health effects. i supported this own initiative report, which calls on the commission to carry out further research and review relevant legislation in order to reduce human exposure to these chemicals. the proposals put forward include ensuring that legislation is based on comprehensive, scientific assessments and that no upper limit is set for such chemicals unless manufacturers can demonstrate that they are safe using scientific evidence. it also asks the commission to develop research methods that minimise animal testing. endocrine disruptors are found in many everyday household products, such as detergents, plastics, cosmetics and food packaging and there is evidence linking them to a number of diseases and hormone-related disorders. consumers have a right to expect the highest possible safety standards for everything they buy in europe and it is therefore essential that we take measures to restrict any exposure to these harmful substances.
mr president, the workforce is an essential component of any country: it is the workforce that upholds national economies and supports our national populations. as our working-age population declines across the member states, we should all share concerns over the negative effect this trend will have within our countries. country-specific, needs-based, controlled and managed immigration of skilled workers into the national workforces is therefore one solution to this demographic trend. however, an eu-wide approach in this respect is not the answer. the member states’ needs vary greatly with regard to the skills required and the industries requiring them, so a one-size-fits-all approach is not appropriate in terms of setting our employment policy, nor should this be done solely at supranational level. furthermore, to extend the competence of the eu in making social security agreements with third countries would be an unnecessary and unacceptable erosion of national sovereignty in a very delicate political area and one that we have to address politically on the doorstep. so as far as i am concerned, the integration of migrants is very, very important but it should be tackled at member state level, not by the european union.
mr president, i view this report as a great missed opportunity. migration for work brings many benefits, but we also need to look at the pressure that migration has put on local services, and especially at the issue of migration for welfare and healthcare, which has affected so many parts of my own region as well as other parts of europe. there is no one-size-fits-all approach to dealing with these issues. member states need their own differentiated and tailored policies, rather than an eu policy. i welcome those who come for asylum from torment and torture in other parts of the world but, while they are seekers of asylum, do they have, for example, the same access to the labour market that they would have once they were granted refugee status or asylum? so no one-size-fits-all approach – and we must be careful about migration for welfare and for healthcare. that is something that we need to sort out.
in writing. − wales has a rich history of migrant entrepreneurs and businesses and their work is vital to the welsh economy. i support this report’s intention to provide more universal labour agreements across the eu and foster a spirit of partnership across member states when it comes to workers rights. many migrants achieve qualifications both in their native and migrant countries and it is vital they are recognised accordingly.
in writing. − growing up in the north-east of england, i saw the positive effects of immigration. in the 1950s and 1960s, people from all over the world were starting news lives, entering willingly into employment in places like south shields, where the lack of racial hostility was presented as a source of regional pride. the example of south shields is in many ways unique, but it showed that, in a tolerant society which can provide work for its immigrants, the successful integration of immigrants is and was possible. immigration is not only necessary but also extremely beneficial. some of the uk’s most highly-skilled professionals are immigrants. we must therefore work to achieve a qualitative rather than quantitative migration policy, ensuring that immigrants arrive to stable employment. this will also mean that the immigrants’ experience will be positive, as in south shields, making this integration process smoother. the ecr group supports the principle of differentiated, needs-driven and tailored immigration and integration policy in member states and agrees that employment is the key to successful integration. we also, however, believe that immigration should be closely controlled. just as in south shields, the immigrants must have a purpose, judged by the individual member state.
in writing. − i abstained on this report but recognise it has many positive aspects to it. i particularly support paragraph 5 which calls on the member states to firmly combat discrimination against third-country nationals and other eu citizens, particularly formal and informal discrimination in job-seeking and in the workplace; takes the view that firm action should be taken to counteract discrimination and racism in the wake of the economic and financial crisis and the accompanying rise in unemployment; stresses that employers are required by law to treat all employees equally and to avoid discrimination between them on grounds of religion, sex, ethnicity or nationality, thus promoting fundamental rights, whereas non-discrimination and equal opportunities are a crucial part of the integration process; calls on the commission and the member states to ensure that remuneration levels and rights under collective agreements are complied with in host countries for migrants too; calls on the member states to monitor effective compliance in order to prevent wage and social dumping, to adopt common guidelines on tackling work-related discrimination and measures to mitigate the negative impact the legislative system can have on the lives of migrants, and to support activating policies which can lead to faster growth and reduce inequalities and income gaps.
in writing. − the european parliamentary labour party notes the rapporteur’s focus on the issue of the integration of migrants in this report, the stress on the rights particularly of vulnerable female migrants, the emphasis on the need for migrants to undertake language training and the need to tackle employment abuses. nevertheless, we were unable to give our support to the report as a whole. labour meps believe that immigration needs to be controlled. we do not believe in a ‘uniform eu approach’ on coordination of social security for third country nationals or for an exclusive eu competence in this area. we strongly oppose measures which could be interpreted as encouraging ‘benefit shopping’ or for the eu to support amnesties for illegal migrants. there are benefits to migration, but that is why it needs to be controlled. although we welcome sensible cooperation between the consular services of eu countries, we do not agree with the creation of a single european consular service. immigration is important and has advantages as well as challenges – but a well-managed and balanced approach must ensure it works for all.
in writing. − there are many case of asbestos-related diseases in wales and there is always an increased risk of cancer when people are exposed to even the smallest of asbestos particles. i support this report and another work that seeks to guarantee safe removal, moving towards an asbestos-free world in the future. wales has many public buildings that have asbestos within them, and this report seeks to protect welsh citizens from any risk.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which urges the member states to ensure that all cases of asbestosis, mesothelioma and related diseases are registered by means of systematic data collection on occupational and non-occupational asbestos diseases, to categorise and officially register pleural plaques as an asbestos-related disease, and to provide, with the assistance of dedicated observatories, a reliable mapping of asbestos presence; stresses that such a register and map at eu level should include the exact location of public and private sites containing asbestos, as well as providing clear details of those landfills containing asbestos waste, so as to prevent ground in which such materials are buried from being disturbed unwittingly, and to contribute to prevention and remedial actions.
in writing. − we support the rapporteur’s concern regarding exposure to asbestos, and recognise the need for robust measures to control the serious risks to health from exposure to asbestos. we have concerns regarding calls for further eu legislation in this area without robust scientific evidence. a non-legislative approach, for example, by improving awareness of asbestos risks, educating employers and workers on effective controls that already exist and providing practical guidance on how to comply with existing requirements, would be a far more effective approach. we cannot support calls for action plans to remove asbestos from buildings. many member states, including the uk, have effective policies in this area. where acms are in good condition or encapsulated and not likely to be disturbed, then on safety grounds it is better to leave them in place and manage any resulting risks. if asbestos is in poor condition and is likely to be disturbed, then removal may be required, but this should be based on an assessment of the risk on a case-by-case basis. the removal of all asbestos from buildings, regardless of the actual risk, could place considerable burdens without evidence of corresponding benefits to workers. therefore, british conservatives voted against this report.
in writing. − asbestos is a highly dangerous material, and i fully recognise and sympathise with efforts to combat the carcinogenic health risks associated with exposure to this toxic material. however, asbestos presents a great challenge as it is such a widespread and commonly used material. nevertheless i wholeheartedly agree that strong actions must be taken to limit the serious health risks from exposure to asbestos. as a pragmatist, however, i also recognise that eu legislation in this area would place a considerable burden on businesses in the uk. rather than the creation of new and likely inefficient legislation, i support a proactive, non-legislative approach to the problem. we must improve awareness and educate employers and workers on the dangers of asbestos. by advising employers on how to comply with existing legislation, we could increase the effectiveness of standing measures without unnecessarily encumbering businesses. the risks associated with asbestos must be addressed with strong actions, but this can be achieved through a practical, proactive approach.
in writing. − i fully back this report calling for all asbestos to be removed from public buildings by 2028. the report, drafted by a labour mep, calls for a screening and registration programme for buildings contaminated by asbestos to be set up, as well as a road map for its removal. even since the adoption of an eu wide ban on asbestos in 1999, many buildings, including schools and offices, still contain this dangerous substance. every year in wales, more people die of asbestos related diseases than in road traffic accidents. action needs to be taken to make sure that asbestos does not continue to be the uk’s biggest work-related killer and to provide people with better information about how asbestos, whether it be blue, brown or white, can affect their lives.
in writing. − around 4 000 deaths every year in the uk are due to asbestos related illnesses, making it the country’s single biggest cause of work-related death. this issue has been a priority for socialist and democrat meps, as well as trade unions, for many years. i was therefore pleased to support this own initiative report, drafted by my labour colleague, stephen hughes, which calls for the removal of asbestos from all public buildings in the eu by 2028. the report also calls for the development of an eu-wide model for screening and registration of asbestos and a roadmap for its removal, as well as for training to be provided for workers whose work may involve dealing with asbestos. it is not just workers in europe, but all over the world, who have a right to work in safe and healthy environments, which is why the report also calls for the eu to work for a global ban on asbestos and to tackle the dumping of asbestos on developing countries.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which considers that a combination of strategies and measures is required to establish a level playing field for mutual societies, including a european statute, giving them in equal measure the possibility of adding a european dimension to their organisation and activities and providing them with adequate legal instruments to facilitate their cross border and transnational activities. in this respect, mutual societies could operate across the union according to their specific governance.
in writing. − it is important that the lessons learned from the economic crisis lead to the implementation of more responsible, conscientious financial practices. one such way of doing this is to establish a european mutual society, which is why i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to act upon creating such a body. this report will enable such a mutual society to act across all eu member states without interfering with existing laws at a national level, as well as focusing on the aims, structure, range and governance of a european mutual society.
in writing. − i support this resolution. the eu should withhold budget support from egypt unless it makes significant progress with human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the death sentences on 21 football supporters involved in the port said tragedy should be commuted and there should be a moratorium on all death penalties in egypt.
in writing. − the toppling of mubarak was the arab spring’s high point and defining moment. two years on, however, egypt has reached a critical juncture. the election of president morsi has heralded a raft of deeply illiberal laws and an over-reaching of presidential power. women protesters have been subject to a huge number of assaults by security forces, minorities – particularly coptic christians – have faced serious oppression, and the recent alarming violence in port said points to a highly volatile security situation, which has been exacerbated by police brutality and excessive judicial punishment. we must therefore continue to focus our attention on the human rights situation and on the political developments on the ground. egypt’s economic crisis, in particular, is a grave concern, and a key reason why the withdrawal of aid would almost certainly cause more harm than good; but at the same time we must deploy aid as an incentivising tool, which encourages much-needed reforms alongside much-needed development. a peaceful, stable democracy takes more than two years to consolidate, but we must assist its architects as far as we can.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which condemns the nuclear tests and missile activities carried out by the dprk, and urges it to refrain from further provocative actions by suspending all activities related to its ballistic missile programme and abandoning, in a complete and irreversible manner, the existing nuclear programmes; calls on the dprk to sign and ratify the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty without delay.
mr president, if there is anything all of us in the eu share, it is a love of football. we certainly do not always agree on the same clubs, but people follow football with a passion, from london to poland. we owe it to the football fans across our constituencies to ensure that criminally-fixed matches are prevented and the legitimacy of the game is upheld everywhere. while we must encourage the governing bodies of the sport to increase monitoring and certify that matches are played fairly, we must also take legal action against those responsible for this corruption of the sport. such criminal acts cannot be tolerated anywhere within the european union and we must address them accordingly, with severe punishment. the extent of this corruption and the apparent size of the criminal network behind it are of great concern. we must take appropriate measures in every member state in agreement with a response to prevent the further perversion of the course of justice, not only for the sake of football, but also to uphold the legal standards of the union of which we are all members.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on current eu - china relations which contains numerous recommendations for the chinese authorities as well as for the eu institutions, including the eeas. it is important for the european parliament to recognise china as a strategic partner. we need good relation with china but this does not mean that we cannot point out, in a friendly and respectful manner, that there are many areas in need of improvement, including democratisation, political reforms, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights. i support this report as it calls on china to comply with minimum social standards and calls for banning all goods which have been produced in prison camps or by child labour. in addition it calls on the chinese authorities to engage the local peoples in governance issues and to put an end to the ban of independent observers to the regions of tibet and xinjiang.
in writing. − i voted for this report which supports the public commitment made by the eu and china during their high-level strategic dialogue of 9-10 july 2012 in beijing to setting a good example of international cooperation in the 21st century through their strategic partnership based on shared interests and mutual understanding; supports and encourages the almost 60 sectoral dialogues between the eu and china, with the conviction that an enhanced and highly developed partnership will be mutually beneficial to both the eu and china; wishes, however, to see a strengthening of these dialogues in the fields of human rights, the environment, security, energy and in particular the fight against counterfeit products, in view of its impact on public health and safety; encourages efforts to actively seek synergies between china’s 12th five-year plan and the europe 2020 strategy with a view to deepening pragmatic cooperation in various fields; believes, moreover, that the concept of strategic partnership must be better defined; calls for increased trade and economic relations with china to go hand in hand with considerable progress in the political dialogue on human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion, as it takes into account the greens/efa’s policy of protecting the fundamental rights of the person involved. the motion states that it will strongly encourage member states to include match-fixing explicitly in their national criminal law, with appropriate common minimum sanctions, and to ensure that existing loopholes are addressed, fully respecting fundamental rights. education and promotion of governance is essential in the prevention of match-fixing. as wales is a very successful sporting nation, it is vital to follow these rules.
in writing. − on monday, 4 february 2013 europol stated that it had uncovered an extensive criminal network involved in fixing football matches across europe. according to the europol investigation, 380 matches in europe were deemed suspicious. additionally, europol has stated that 425 referees, players, club officials and serious criminals are under investigation and that 50 people have so far been arrested. according to europol, this is just the ‘tip of the iceberg’. the driving force behind the criminal network is suspected to be an organised crime syndicate based in asia. i agree that an eu-wide, and indeed a global response is needed considering that match-fixing is an act that is connected to cross-border criminal activities such as money laundering, human and drug trafficking, extortion and intimidation. i also support this call for a comprehensive approach to combating the involvement of organised crime in sport and for the issue of match-fixing to be addressed at every level.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which points out that transparency, accountability and democracy – in other words, good governance – in sports organisations are prerequisites for the sports movement to play any kind of successful role in fighting match-fixing and sports fraud.
in writing. − i support calls for stricter measures to be put in place to crack down on corruption in sport. both match-fixing and illegal betting are serious crimes and action must be taken to curb these offences. i support calls on member states to work together on this issue, by circulating the names of those involved in corruption cases to prevent the problem merely shifting to other countries. a recent investigation by europol has made clear that this is not simply a problem about cheating in sport, but that this is about money laundering on a global scale. cross border measures need to be taken in order to stamp out this corruption, which is highly damaging to the integrity and reputation of the sporting world. i would welcome any efforts for member states to work together to introduce common penalties for match-fixing, and sincerely hope that the commission come forward with some proposals to help reduce illegal practices in sport.
mr president, cotton is one of the unique materials that could be classified as a universal commodity. the material is found across industries and markets and produced all around the world. it is also of great interest to farming, textile and clothing businesses throughout the european union, including the city i represent, london. within our member states we have producers, traders and investors in cotton production. it is therefore in our national and european interest for the european union to have a presence on the international cotton advisory committee. membership of this committee would allow the eu for the first time to provide input on the regulation of the cotton industry and provide opportunities to increase international trade and streamline production. a place on the committee would also allow the eu to better monitor the social issues associated with the industry such as forced child labour, as alleged in certain central asian countries. therefore, i strongly support the eu’s accession request to the international cotton advisory committee, as it will increase the eu’s role in this key global market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion because my group strengthened the text and placed two references to fair trade. as a representative of wales – the first ever fair trade nation – this is an incredibly important issue. we also helped ensure that the text contains a reference to parliament’s withholding of consent for the uzbekistan pca textile protocol due to the use of forced child labour in its cotton fields.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution although i abstained on amendments calling for a ban on sandblasting. i accept that this practice can be a threat to workers health but do not believe a european ban is the most effective way of dealing with the problem.
author. − mr president, when i was in dhaka five years ago i visited the national liberation war museum and saw first hand the documented evidence of the atrocities carried out during the 1971 war of independence. these were mainly perpetrated on minorities, particularly the hindus, christians and buddhists, who were deemed by virtue of their religion not to be loyal to pakistan. four decades have passed and to date there has been almost total impunity for the war criminals responsible. it is therefore entirely justified that they should finally be brought to justice, within a framework of due process and recognised legal safeguards. for crimes of such a magnitude no statute of limitation should ever apply. it is also extremely unreasonable to ask the bangladeshis to try them abroad outside of their own jurisdiction. we, therefore, in the ecr group, condemn the recent violence inspired by the jamaat-e-islami party and call for restraint on all sides. we must offer the bangladeshi government all the support we can to ensure that law and order is restored promptly, and hope that the verdicts of these trials will bring closure to this terribly painful period of bangladeshi history.
author. − mr president, i am speaking both in my capacity as chair of the delegation for south asia and as a group member. the european parliament has supported the need for war crimes trials in bangladesh, given the atrocities committed during the liberation war 40 years ago and the shadows still cast over the country by those events. commitment to hold such trials was part of the awami league manifesto in the last general election, the result of which was widely accepted, and that party is now in government. many of us have mixed feelings in relation to the issue. we recognise the need for the trials, but deplore that the death penalty is still on the statute books. we understand the political dimension of the trials, but believe it is essential for the courts to be fully in control and that political interference from any quarter is unacceptable and must be resisted for the outcome to be trusted. we understand the desire of bangladesh to deal with its past, but that should not mean that such trials fall below national and international standards, and there is cause for concern at present. recent changes to the rules on appeal are particularly worrying. we recognise that public passions will run high but, as the war crimes trials themselves bear witness, there has been enough death, violence and intimidation. it is an absolute tragedy to see the numbers of recent dead, targeting of minorities, hacking to death of law enforcement officers and the use of live ammunition against civilians. so we call on all sides and all those in positions of power and influence to call a halt to the violence.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we here in the european union, and particularly in the parliament, have very, very good relations with bangladesh, both through its diaspora and through cooperation with its offices. this is why we have the right and duty to speak up on what we see there, on the recent violence – which is prompted by a loss of confidence and trust – because the violations of the rule of law and the reports of political interference in the international crimes tribunal have become so frequent and obvious that we have simply got to step in. i echo the calls of others for a moratorium on the death penalty, but it is very, very important that we urge the government of bangladesh to request international support by exploring what scope there may be for the united nations to create a special international criminal tribunal. that way, all will have confidence that there will be fair trials, the whole of society will be confident of the outcomes, and even the government will be confident that the guilty will be punished.
author. − mr president, last night hamid rabi, a 52-year-old political refugee with permanent residency in germany, died of injuries sustained in the vicious rocket attack which took place on 9 february 2013 on camp liberty in bagdad. he was the eighth victim to die as a result of that cowardly assault; another ten were dismembered, over 90 were seriously injured. all of us in this chamber are responsible for those deaths and injuries. the eu, the un and the us bullied and cajoled the 3 100 iranian asylum seekers and refugees to abandon their relative safety of camp ashraf and move to the prison-like conditions of camp liberty. we guaranteed their safety and we deceived them. we sent them to a death camp. the 3 100 defenceless refugees are now crushed into a compound of only half a square kilometre in size, forced to live in squalid and unsanitary conditions, in flimsy caravans. they were seating ducks when 45 rockets were fired in a tight trajectory during the hours of darkness, hitting the area where the maximum number of people was sleeping. this was no random terrorist attack. it was a professionally executed military operation. the rockets were fired from only 3 km distance, well within the military compound that surrounds camp liberty. there is no doubt the operation was ordered by the iranian regime and was carried out with the close cooperation of the iraqi government. it will not be the last attack. now, although five weeks have passed since that brutal incidence, the iraqi government has still not allowed body armour or even hard hats into camp liberty. they are being set up for annihilation and we, through our silence and our reluctance to intervene, are complicit in this crime.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, 10 years after the allied military intervention, the iraqi people sadly continue to be victims of violence and disorder on a depressingly regular basis. the recent massacres of turkmen and kurdish citizens demonstrate the deeply troubling extent of the problem, far beyond the simple sunni-shia faultlines. i, for instance, have for many years expressed my concerns with regard to christian minorities in the country, and in particular the assyrians, who continue to suffer systematic oppression. iraq was not a nation state based around any one ethnicity, and the multiple cultural, national and religious identities of its citizens could in principle be a source of strength in its diversity. we in this house must, therefore, take the opportunity to ask the federal government to do all it can to help minority groups. the new high commission for human rights is a positive step, and we must commend the kurdish regional government in particular, which must be allowed maximum autonomy for what it does to try and help. above all, the government in baghdad must treat human rights as its guiding principle, and must afford much better security for all the minorities in iraq. we in the eu must stand ready to assist our iraqi partners wherever we can.
mr president, i too support this resolution. it is hard to take in the figures that we hear about the number of prisoners that have been held – 4 500 or 4 900! there have been 750 complaints of torture and abuse filed against the israeli security agency. not only has no justice been done as a result of the complaints, but no criminal investigations have even been opened. the israeli authorities must respect the rights of palestinian prisoners and fully implement the recommendations of the united nations. the practice of arrest and imprisonment of palestinians, often for doing nothing more than taking part in peaceful demonstrations, is totally unacceptable. i have been there to hear the harrowing stories from the prisoners’ families, and it is totally unacceptable, too, that so many women and children are detained without charge. i would also support the call for a delegation from this parliament to make a visit. we need to demand the release of the prisoners, and i support the comments that my colleagues have made.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we agreed some ten years ago that the way to stimulate low-carbon investment was to put a price on carbon. we introduced the emissions trading system because it was seen as the means by which industry could achieve carbon reduction goals at the least possible cost and in the most flexible manner. but, from the very moment it was introduced, we were ‘learning by doing’. that is how the commission introduced this in the first place. mistakes have been made. it is true that the price of carbon is down because of the economic downturn, but it is also down because mistakes have been made in the structure of the scheme, and those mistakes need to be corrected. at the moment we are in a position where germany and other countries are actually investing in unabated coal-fired power stations – lignite power stations, the dirtiest of the lot – and industry, especially the generators, are asking us to give them a clear signal about the pattern of investment in the future. we look forward to structural reforms. we look forward to the commission bringing forward proposals to implement what this parliament has called for by a very large majority, which is the achievement of a 40% co2 reduction by 2030. in the meantime we have this measure – a sticking plaster, some would say; but if you are bleeding you put on a sticking plaster on the way to the hospital. it is necessary to take this sort of action. mr president, i just want to use a few seconds of my time to appeal to some of my conservative colleagues from the united kingdom, because collectively we have gone further than the commission. we have introduced a ‘carbon price floor’ in order to stimulate these low-carbon investments and give an incentive to renewables and to the nuclear power industry. our price is set much higher now than it would be even if back-loading is introduced. it has got to be in the interests of british industry to make sure there is a level playing field, and i appeal to british conservatives mps – not simply for the sake of coalition policy in my country but for the sake of our industry – to support this measure and achieve a level playing field to promote low-carbon investment across the whole of the european union.
mr president, well what do we know about carbon dioxide? not carbon – carbon dioxide is a different thing for those people in this chamber who have not had the benefit of a formal education. they are different things. we know that carbon dioxide in the atmosphere always follows periods of global warming. we know, do we not, that the hypothesis that man-made global warming was going to cause totally apocryphal boiling in 2050 now is completely nonsense. the hypothesis is dead in the water. it is facedown. there has been no statistically significant global warming now for over fifteen years. there is not a single independent scientific institution which does not acknowledge that fact. so all this debate is a lot of nonsense, because it simply is not happening. and commissioner, you say that the weather is getting worse and worse; that climate change is getting worse. madam, where have you been? it has not been. why are you in denial? you are in denial! if i may lapse into the vernacular of the loony greenies and their fellow travellers on this complete money-making nonsense: denier! denier! (the speaker declined to answer blue-card questions from mr davies and mr jørgensen)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, since i came into the chamber, a note has been circulated by members of the secretariat of the committee on the environment to say i have been appointed as rapporteur for the carbon capture and storage report. ccs is supposed to be achieving potential co2 savings of up to 25%. if as much time had been spent by the commission on ccs over the past few years as has been spent on aviation, i would be well pleased. nonetheless i welcome this initiative – this tactic, if you like – to try and force an agreement out of an international body when we are having so much difficulty on the international stage. we should be going with the tide, after all. anyone who goes round airbus or boeing knows that the aircraft manufacturers are competing on the basis of fuel efficiency, and that of course means lower co2 emissions. so the tide is with us in a way that, when we are talking about power stations, it is not. i would like the commissioner to come back to this issue of switzerland, because there were certainly questions being asked in my group about it. i take the point, however: we have an agreement here, and we need to ensure that it goes through unchanged and that there are no further delays. let us just hope that this is an example of the european union being able to use its position in this arena of international negotiations to actually secure some very positive and binding commitments from other member states across the world to make progress on this agenda.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, i think the entire emissions trading scheme is, quite frankly, a shambles, as we have just heard during the last debate. we are now trying to resolve the additional mess resulting from including aviation in this ill-thought-through scheme. the answer to ‘stop the clock’ from our point of view is certainly yes, but we would like to stop the clock permanently and for all flights, and we do not believe that we should restart it. there are competition issues as we speak. while the ets of fixed installations was ill-conceived and poorly designed, the inclusion of aviation in that sector amounts to nothing more than a tax on an industry that supports five million jobs across europe, and it provides absolutely no benefits. the derogation from this scheme really has nothing to do with anything apart from saving face from an exercise that has been pushed through by dg environment (as it was) and which has shown that it is not really going to work. this was also backed up by 170 countries, which showed their determination not to be dictated to by the european commission. this has led to the americans passing legislation to forbid their airlines from taking part, and the chinese putting large orders of aircraft – that is airbus, rolls royce, the whole supply chain – on hold, which is threatening jobs. this is not good enough at all. modern commercial aircraft are more environmentally friendly than ever before, and other measures exist that would mitigate pollution and costs in the single european sky and similar projects. finally, in a week when we celebrate the life of one of the greatest british prime ministers in margaret thatcher, it is time for the commission to wake up and realise that business should be run by business without interference from burdensome legislation and unjustified taxes imposed by the european union. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i just wondered if the honourable lady would accept that, while she is forthright in her views, they bear no resemblance at all to the policies of the coalition government which we both support.
blue-card answer. – may i just say to my good and honourable friend, mr davies, that i am not speaking for the coalition government. i am a conservative; we are supportive of business and there are other mitigating ways in which we can deal with pollution, environment and all of these things. so this particular scheme is not good. it has been a waste of time since we started, and we have gained a whole host of hostility from third countries, which is not the way that the european union should be doing business in my view. but thank you for the intervention, chris. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i know mr liese has put a huge amount of work in, and i support the huge amount of work he has put in. but the bottom line is that there is no one in this chamber who does not want to mitigate pollution. we want to make sure that we have the best equipment, the best technology and all those things that are cost-effective for the european consumer. my view is, and others’ views are – and they may be fairly reticent in coming forward and saying so, because we have got to get some sort of deal, for god’s sake – this was not the way forward. this was always ill-conceived in terms of including aviation in this, and this has been borne out for the last six years. otherwise we would not be sitting here having this debate, because the entire thing is a shambles.
mr president, just a point of order to the commissioner. obviously, the commissioner cannot answer every single point which is raised, but one of the key points i did raise was the hold in the orders on the airbus aircraft. we had usd 14 billion worth of orders that have been held up over the issue of including ets in the aviation industry. it would probably be useful if we could have an update to see if these orders have now progressed. this is very important for all of us here. thank you commissioner.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, it is rather frustrating for all of us, i am sure, to be here discussing the same subject again, and with such little progress made – at least concerning mackerel, which is a very important and economically valuable stock to scotland. it is frustrating because cfp regulation and the european commission seem all-powerful when it comes to regulating our fishermen and their activities. it is restrictive and inflexible, and it is extremely difficult to operate within it successfully. yet all that power that it has over us domestically apparently has little effect when it comes to seeking help with resolving this dispute. the fisheries minster of scotland, as you will be aware, has suggested that an international mediator could be appointed to broker an agreement on this difficult question, ending the dispute (hopefully) in a neutral and objective way. i would like to think that the commissioner has not left that possibility off the table, since we seem to be making little progress with the instruments which have been used so far.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in the uk (and i am sure in other member states too), consumers increasingly want to purchase and eat fish which has been caught from sustainable stocks. they rely on certification schemes to inform this choice. plentiful and nutritious mackerel caught in the north-east atlantic had received approval under the marine conservation scheme and was beginning to feature very widely on menus, both privately and in restaurants. this has all come to an abrupt halt following the unilateral actions of iceland and the faroe islands. so things are getting tougher for the uk pelagic fleet, and this will probably worsen further when frozen stocks run out. no-one is suggesting the collapse of the stock yet, but with no agreement in sight this will happen eventually. what we do have already is a collapse in price, meaning that european fishermen who have behaved well and followed the rules are getting half the returns they were getting two years ago. so i join my colleagues in asking the glaringly obvious questions: why has the commission not secured a viable deal with the faroes and iceland? in the absence of such a deal, when will the commission use the powers granted by parliament six months ago – not last week, but six months ago – and take action to bring about a change in behaviour? finally, what steps is the commission taking to revive the coastal states agreement?
madam president, i would just like to add to what mr van nistelrooij was saying. will the commission consider the proposal, which mr hudghton outlined, about an international mediator? i think this is one of the considerations we need to look into. secondly, as others have highlighted, the current negotiations on iceland’s membership of the european union are continuing. as the commissioner is well aware, the icelandic elections are being held next week. does she think that, once the elections have been concluded, there may be an opportunity to promote progress on this matter? iceland has still to touch upon the issue of fisheries in its application process, and perhaps this is an opportunity to try to resolve this very urgent matter. i think that, as most colleagues have outlined, the situation we are in is unsustainable, and we have to see action.
madam president, ms stihler has made a very valid point. iceland has a noble reputation for trying to fish sustainably. that reputation is at risk of being damaged irreparably as a result of this dispute over mackerel. i would welcome iceland joining the european union, but we also know that those negotiations are delicate. with elections coming, it is not for me to ask the commissioner specifically whether she is under any pressure with regard to this matter. however, i would like to reinforce the point and ask ms stihler if she believes that, if we are not able to continue negotiations to secure a sustainable fishing agreement between the european union and iceland, that there would be any risk for those negotiations? is she under – no, i will not push that. thank you.
rapporteur. − madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, this report concerns an agency involved in network and information security. this is about the third or fourth attempt we have made to define the roles, tasks and objectives of the agency. i should very much like to thank my team of shadow rapporteurs – and especially my colleague mr ehler – for their constructive support and help in the work on this report. i would also like to thank the commissioner in particular for her support and constructive approach to the problem that we are facing as we try to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of this agency. in addition i would like to pay tribute to the irish, cypriot, danish, polish and hungarian presidencies, all of which had a go at negotiating the terms of this regulation. and can i tell my colleagues in parliament that if they were to look at the text of the regulation as it stands now, they would see the evidence of our work as an amending parliament, as we have substantially rewritten the text – and i like to think seriously improved it – so that the agency is now better-placed to face its future. network and information security is a very important issue, and it is vital that we have an effective european agency on the case. we have redefined the competences, objectives and tasks, as i have said. we have introduced a level of management in the form of an executive board, which we believe will improve the management and running of the agency. we have redefined the management board’s responsibilities and increased the accountability of the agency. the chairman of the management board and the executive director are able to come to the relevant committee of the european parliament and give an account of themselves, or indeed make themselves accountable. we have introduced provisions for the court of auditors and olaf to provide for greater accountability of the activities of the agency, and – a very important measure – we have provided specifically for the establishment of a branch office of the agency on the mainland of greece. colleagues may not be aware of it, but the headquarters of this agency is in heraklion in crete. a most wonderful place to work, but perhaps a little inconvenient in terms of communication and transport links to the rest of europe. we have set a fixed term for the agency of seven years, and we have made provision for a review of the agency’s work to be carried out by the end of the fifth year of the term. i believe that, with all these measures, we will have done a good job preparing the agency to cope with the demands and challenges of network and information security and of cybersecurity in the years to come. i would just remind you that we have made provision for the agency to assist the union in developing its policies, strengthened its capacity and preparedness, encouraged cooperation between public and private sectors, enabled it to contribute to cooperation with third countries and provided it with greater flexibility to tackle problems, some of which are not yet known. so i commend this report to the house.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all the colleagues for their contributions to the debate and particularly those who were nice to me, and to those who were not quite in agreement – i understand the reasons for the difference. let me emphasise that it was recognition of how serious an issue network and information security is that led us to hold a hearing and to commission the new study. mr paška mentioned the 2004 study – we had a new study, which led to certain conclusions. the message i got from the hearing was the importance of face-to-face, person-to-person contact for the cyber experts of the agency. video-conferencing is an attractive idea – we live in a modern technological age – but frankly there is no substitute for being face to face, particularly where you need to maintain trust and confidentiality in security matters. so that was an important message from the hearing. from the study, can i just say that they gave us six headings of food for thought and that two of those headings said eu institutions are at risk. two separate examples were given: eu institutions are not immune. they gave twelve recommendations, of which eight have been accepted and incorporated in the text, and that included, by the way, establishing the office in athens. a couple were not accepted, and some were left possibly included. the point is that all along it was our concern to make this agency more effective in tackling the challenges which exist – and indeed future challenges which we do not yet know about – and i hope we have provided the legislative framework for the agency to go forward in enhanced efficiency and effectiveness.
mr president, of the global land mass, some 6% is protected as national park. but of our seas, only 3% by surface area is protected at all, and less than 1% is highly protected – that is, completely closed to fishing. in the uk it is 0.001%.fisheries policy. when i ask them what further steps they want, 99% say more marine conservation zones around our coasts. a number of europe’s marine areas are protected through sites of community importance to protect specific species and sub-sea geology. one such area is lyme bay in my constituency. early findings from research in these areas, including by the excellent marine institute of plymouth university, indicate that sub-sea aquaculture is beginning to recover. we need a partnership between fishermen, scientists and conservationists to do this, and if we add it to the opportunity for investment in renewable energy generation, we can do much to protect our aquaculture.
mr president, the horrific process of symphysiotomy consists of a surgical procedure whereby a woman’s pelvic bone is sawn in half during childbirth in order to deliver the baby. whilst this may sound like a form of torture straight out of the dark ages, this was the method used in ireland to deliver babies in the 20th century as an alternative to caesarean sections. some obstetricians believed the latter to be a form of contraception. it is estimated that, between 1944 and 1992, 1 500 women were subjected to symphysiotomies, and many say they were performed without their prior knowledge or consent. decades later, these women are still experiencing chronic pain and traumatic flashbacks from these procedures. the irish government owes them an unreserved and full apology. given the eu-irish presidency, the irish government should support the sinn féin td’s initiative to waive the statute of limitations to pursue those responsible for these barbaric acts.
mr president, a week ago we lost a great political figure, a woman who achieved the highest office in the land from humble beginnings – in fact, the first elected woman in the western world. incidentally she achieved that without the need of a quota, something which this house believes so firmly in. when she took office, the united kingdom was the sick man of europe, but her strong policies, handling of the economy and dealing with trade unions – a lesson which the french and germans still have not learnt in thirty years – transformed the united kingdom in the 1980s. the president, mr schultz, called her a great european. she did believe in the membership of the european community and she signed the single european act, but when she realised it was getting into a federal europe and a single currency she said, ‘no, no, no’, and that is why the cowards stabbed her in the back. from a personal point of view she inspired me into politics. i was ten when she was elected and i met her just three months before i was elected, and when i told her that i was coming here to fight for british independence from the european union she told me never to give up, never to give up, and i can assure you i will never give up fighting for my country’s independence.
mr president, the tory/liberal coalition in the united kingdom has introduced a draconian bedroom tax which affects some of the most vulnerable citizens, such as children and the disabled. one of my constituents – a mr purser from motherwell, who was recently made unemployed and who looks after his son at weekends – is directly impacted by this measure, as he will now be charged for the room which his child uses. mr purser is unemployed and cannot afford the charge. what does he do? does he fall into debt? does he give up on seeing his child? as uk citizens are also eu citizens, and as this bedroom tax affects families and, more importantly, children and their rights to have a relationship with both parents, is the uk government breaking article 3 of the consolidated eu treaties, given that article 3.1 says that the union’s aim is to promote the well-being of its people and that article 3.3 says that the protection of the rights of the child must be upheld? i would argue that in both these points the uk government is failing to uphold these rights, and i ask the commission to investigate this as a matter of urgency.
uachtarán-in-oifig sa chomhairle. − a uachtaráin, a chomhaltaí onóracha; an pacáiste reachtaíochta atá os bhur gcomhair inniu, is toradh é ar go leor oibre ónár dhá n-institiúid. ó thaobh na comhairle de, ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghabháil go háirithe le hobair uachtaránachtaí na polainne, na danmhairge agus na cipire. ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghabháil freisin leis an rapóirtéir, an tuasal karas, le cathaoirleach an choiste um ghnóthaí eacnamaíochta agus airgeadaíochta, bean bowles, agus leis na scáth-rapóirtéirí an tuasal bullmann, an tuasal lamberts agus bean ford, as a gcomhoibriú agus a ndea-thoil sa chaibidlíocht. cuirim fáilte roimh an bhfíric gur éirigh linn le déanaí teacht ar chomhaontú polaitiúil. is ionann sin is a rá go bhféadfar na rialacha nua a chur i bhfeidhm ón 1 eanáir 2014. this legislative package will constitute the heart of the single rule book for banks and will pave the way for banking union. it also means that we can fulfil our international commitments on financial regulation and implement the basel iii accords on capital and liquidity requirements. i would like to signal two points which deserve particular attention. firstly, as we all know, the european union faces huge challenges in raising its competitiveness and achieving strong economic growth. we therefore have to balance the necessary accumulation of capital buffers and liquidity by banks with ensuring that adequate funding is released to the real economy, and particularly to smes. i think that the package we have negotiated does indeed provide sufficient incentives to achieve the latter. secondly, while the basel accords concern the largest global banks, our text covers both banks and investment firms. we have therefore had to include specific provisions to take account of this, whilst ensuring that we still comply with global rules and meet the prudential business requirements. members will be fully aware of the key elements of the text on which you will be voting later today, but allow me simply to highlight a few important points. perhaps the most fundamental is that banks will have to hold more and better capital and comply with liquidity management requirements. this will be a major safeguard of stability in the financial sector and discourage unreasonable risk-taking. we have, in particular, agreed – in addition to the systemic risk buffer of capital that member states may introduce – on a buffer that will be specifically applicable to systemically-important institutions. this will be mandatory for global systemically-important institutions. the rules on capital buffers have been carefully drafted to ensure a proper balance between the supervisory interests of home and host states of banking institutions. member states may adopt national measures to counter macro-prudential or systemic risks at national level, but sufficient safeguards have been included to prevent any disruptions to the single market, any violation of basel rules and any undermining of prudential supervision. concerning net stable funding ratio, leverage ratio and liquidity coverage ratio, we have agreed on a set of rules that strike the right balance between the basel requirements, prudential supervision and our ambition to ensure both a secure financial sector and europe’s international competitiveness. we have also included provisions on transparency requirements. for example, the banks will have to disclose profits made, taxes paid and subsidies received country by country, as well as turnover and number of employees. from 2014 these should be reported to the commission and from 2015 they should be made publically available. the package also includes an agreement on the capping of bankers’ bonus pay at a ratio of 1:1 to the fixed part of the annual remuneration. there are some possibilities for a degree of flexibility in raising this ratio to 2:1 with shareholder involvement, and the possibility of paying 25% of the bonus by deferred instruments at discounted rate. i think this is a good compromise, which should help to discourage excessive risk-taking. as far as supervision is concerned, the role of the banking authority will be enhanced, given the large number of important supervisory tasks which have been delegated to it. our agreement on this legislative package does not mean that our work is at an end. the experience we gain in implementing the legislation will need to be assessed and evaluated. a number of review clauses have been built into the text which could lead to improvements in the future. they cover, for example, funding for all forms of long-term financing for the economy, the regime applicable to large exposures and the liquidity coverage requirement, as well as limits on exposures to shadow banking entities. overall, we consider that the result reached at the end of our negotiations is a satisfactory outcome, and we very much hope that it will receive the support of this parliament. it constitutes a major step towards better regulation of the financial services industry and should therefore help rebuild the trust and confidence of our citizens in europe’s financial services sector.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i submitted this crd iv text to you in july 2011 and today, thanks to you, it is a major step forward, a cornerstone of the single rule book, with the 8 300 banks in the single market throughout the european union, with requirements for the quality and quantity of equity capital, new requirements for liquidity that will allow them to be more resilient to shocks, better governance, a framework that we can see that the crisis has revealed the lack of in the past years. we also stand by the commitments made by the european union at the g20 meeting of finance ministers in washington this week. lucinda creighton was right to mention the role of the various presidencies, the polish, the cypriot, the danish and finally the very efficient and competent team in ireland and your embassy in brussels, to whom i would like to thank. but here i would like to personally thank your rapporteur, othmar karas, who has been extremely helpful, willing and competent, and, of course, the other rapporteurs, mrs sharon bowles, mr bullmann, mr lamberts and mrs ford, who have assisted mr karas. indeed, having personally participated in several of the trilogues in the past few weeks, i can say that it is truly a dynamic compromise that has been possible, thanks to the understanding of many of you, in building the solutions and elements of this compromise. i would perhaps like to point out to the outside world several important points on which the european parliament has made progress compared with our initial proposals. of course - and this is a very important subject in the present crisis - there are special provisions, which i myself had brought to the attention of the european banking authority with mr tajani almost two years ago, concerning small and mediumsized enterprises. we owe that to the european parliament. there are also the mediation powers of the european banking authority, the application of an additional capital cushion to systemic institutions, mr lamberts, and then the strengthening of the role of parliament in the procedure for adopting regulatory technical standards. finally, the obligation for banks to report to their supervisors their exposure to unregulated financial entities. this is part of the work i will be presenting shortly on the regulation of the shadow banking sector. the second area where there has been real progress, thanks to parliament, is obviously governance, transparency of pay. in the continuation of the work you did on crd iii - i see arlene mccarthy up there - parliament has introduced real progress on diversity and transparency. of course, there is also the question of pay. all this is done, i believe, at a time when banks are obviously part of society. they are not outsiders, as some may feel. these are two important steps to regain the confidence of european citizens. i think that these innovations also provide the basis for an international discussion so that europe is not the only one, even if it is the first, to introduce such frameworks. i think that, on the whole, it is a balanced and satisfactory compromise. we have all made efforts, including on the commission's side, because i still think that the national flexibility mechanism is not yet sufficiently well regulated. i would like to address a point on which we have had a dialogue with your rapporteur and yourself, mrs bowles: there remains a technical point on the leverage ratio concerning the possibility of offsetting the different elements of repo transactions in article 416 (5). i want to confirm that the basel committee will in future launch a formal consultation on this subject with a view to adopting its final position by the end of 2013. in this context, i think it is reasonable and preferable not to anticipate the basel conclusions. that is why, if you wish, i can sign my agreement. i think the council could also do so by amending the text, to remove a sentence in article 416 which, prematurely - i think so too - would prohibit compensation. i think that we have, ladies and gentlemen, an extremely important text for what i have called the single rule book for the banking sector. this text will be operational, thanks to you, at the beginning of 2014. in addition, banking supervision is being introduced, both at the level of the single market, thanks to the new authorities we have created, and at the level of the euro area, thanks to the european central bank, which will be given direct powers from spring 2014. finally, the text of the resolution must now be completed, as we said with the ministers in dublin, and i would like to remind you that, if possible - and i hope - under the irish presidency; it's been under discussion for over a year now. we have here the elements which, of course, if they had been put in place, would have prevented or limited the risks associated with banking crises. i am not thinking only of cyprus but of many other banking crises that we have suffered or that taxpayers have suffered for the last five or six years. so let's finish this single rule book, let's finish these elements. i confirm that the commission will, with the same determination, present the important element in the banking union, which is the independent european resolution authority, which will operate in parallel with the european central bank as supervisor. we are working within the framework of the present treaty to bring this proposal forward by next june, or at any rate before the suspension of our work this summer. i thank you for your commitment to this major text which we shall, if you will, approve today.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it has indeed been a long and technical negotiation, but the final package is good. i would really prefer less of a regulatory arms race on complexity and encouragement away from derivative products, but that is for another day. bonuses inevitably take the limelight, masking other important work, but realignment of the pay/bonus ratio to reasonable proportions reduces perverse incentives to risky behaviour, even if the total pay remains the same. on trade finance, europe has now led the world, and i thank colleagues for their support. with growth scarce, it is the wrong time to treat trade unfavourably, so we have recognised the lower risk of short-term trade finance loans that are underpinned by the trade of goods and services. similarly, we have taken the progressive line of exempting all – not just eu – corporate hedging from excessive cva charges, at least until better calibration is done. the whole area of cva is at best incomplete and at worst ill-conceived for the eu, developing countries and anywhere else that, in contrast to the us, does not have active cds markets for corporates in which to hedge the cva charge. light will now be shed on what is pledged to whom through enhanced disclosures of repo transactions and asset encumbrance. who has misbehaved will be checked on an eu-wide bankers blacklist, with authorities required to check a banker’s past. who has paid tax and where will be revealed by country-by-country reporting for banks – and take note, this is the forward march into all sectors. it has begun here. there is balance in the constrained flexibility on capital buffers, macro-prudential controls and single market precautions, and the role of eva in resolution plans and other areas has been reinforced. some legacy exemptions remain, but together with the provisions on asset quality liquidity and forward planning for leverage ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the banking industry is ever more global and it requires global regulation. i have supported moves towards the global standard and towards a more level playing field. in the committee vote a year ago, a number of changes were made to try to align eu legislation with global standards. however, many of these were given up during negotiations and, as a result, we have a package which is not compliant with basel in a number of areas. my own group wanted to make sure not only that banks are strengthened but also that taxpayers’ money is protected. in particular, we believe it is important that losses are borne by equity holders and subordinated debtors before pain is shared with senior debtors, depositors or the state. the cyprus situation shows how critical this is, and a key amendment, to us, was the ability for regulators to write down or convert junior tiers of capital or subordinated debt prior to any taxpayer-funded bailout. that amendment has been dropped from the text since the committee vote in may last year. the legislation does not provide for a level playing field in the single market either. in particular, the bank assurance model is a very material divergence from the global standard. strengthening banks’ balance sheets must be done in a way that does not strangle investment in the wider economy. it has been very good to work at length with colleagues from across this parliament to secure safeguards to support smes, trade finance and corporates hedging business risks, as well as to recognise the special status for building societies and protect mortgage holders who run into temporary difficulties. i have fought through many hours of negotiations to protect national powers. the ability for member states to introduce their own higher standards is sometimes vital, and the uk’s ability to implement a ring fence must not be lost. on the issue of bankers’ remuneration, we know that remuneration packages can increase risk-taking dramatically and do need global regulation. indeed, i have supported measures to bring a remuneration package that is more long-dated and risk-sensitive, but the bonus cap is a blunt tool which can result in being front-loaded. it sets a bad investment precedent. this legislation makes many moves towards a global standard. my group will not vote against. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, what we are dealing with here is a triumph of hope over experience. we are talking about things which are not the problem; the problem which we have is a flawed banking system – a fractional reserve banking system where bankers can lend money that they do not have. if you go back in time to the united states in the 1850s, that was a capital offence. you could hang for it. we have this extraordinary situation where we have had regulation – lots of regulation – which has been the wrong sort of regulation, has it not? and so we have had another disaster. none of this is actually going to save us from another disaster further down the line. it is bound to happen, because we have not addressed the real problems, and that is the eu’s fractional reserve banking system. we must have a commodity bank on the one hand and an investment bank on the other. so, commissioner, you talk about the banks’ ability to withstand shocks. well, by that definition – by your definition – a shock is people turning up wanting their money back. that is not a shock; that should be a day-to-day occurrence and should be dealt with accordingly. we are talking about bankers’ bonuses, which is an absolutely wonderful way of taking everybody’s eye off the ball. what we have actually had here is criminal activity by banks – and not a single banker has been sent to prison. that is extraordinary: billions of pounds have been taken away from taxpayers, taken away from depositors and bondholders, and yet not a single banker is in jail. that is a disgrace! we really have to use the law of the land, not so much regulation and printing money – and central banks are equally culpable, make no mistake. i would like to see some central bankers in prison. i call ‘quantitative easing’ counterfeiting. printing money is counterfeiting. it is illegal; if a private citizen did it, they would go to jail. so let us look into our own hearts. all the very unpleasant arrangements that politicians, bureaucrats and central bankers have between them at the expense of the taxpayer, let us end them and let us end them now.
mr president, i too want to congratulate mr karas and the negotiating team. in 2010 i worked with mr karas to put in place rules to ensure that bonuses were deferred and could be clawed back and that up-front cash bonuses were limited. the banks were then asked to introduce a ratio between fixed salary and bonus elements. it is the failure of the banks to self-regulate on bonuses or to exercise restraint that has now resulted in a bonus cap with a one-to-one, one-to-two salary-to-bonus ratio. i hope that these rules will put an end to an unsustainable banking model whereby the uk-based bank rbs – which is 84% taxpayer-owned – has suffered gbp 5.2 billion losses and paid gbp 1.1 billion in fines for mis-selling and gbp 390 million in fines for libor-fixing yet still paid gbp 600 million in bonuses in 2012. what a shame that the uk government – and george osbourne and boris johnson in particular – have sought to defend this broken banking culture by acting as trade union representatives for a minority of highly-paid traders. this broken culture is rejected by the public. in 2010, 76% of the people surveyed supported a cap on bonuses and higher financial regulation. and, at a time when a barclays trader can still earn gbp 236 000 basic salary and a total take-home package of gbp 708 000 – not a big cut effectively – 230 000 people in my constituency are going to be accessing food banks. it is time for fairness; it is time for change; it is time for us to respond to the public.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, it is good that the capital requirements directive, which requires banks to strengthen their balance sheets, has been finalised. this is of course welcome, but in an ideal world the markets would have done the job. therefore, we need more work than simply this; we need to sort out the resolution system. we need to make sure that banks which go bust should be allowed to fail without taxpayers ever taking the hit again. secondly, we need to make sure that there are tougher liability standards for the directors of banks, so that they take responsibility for failure – either directly or indirectly. thirdly, we need to make sure that the accounting standards are resolved so that banks make sufficient provision for losses and can see in advance whether trouble is coming and put sufficient money aside. we have to make sure that we have a sufficient reform of the accounting standards to do that. basel i and ii were clearly not enough; i worry that basel iii will not be enough. we must get the markets functioning. we need urgent reform where we need to seek out the resolution system. this is not enough; let us make sure that we get the reforms we need.
mr president, systemically-important european banks are, by their very nature, global in coverage. this makes any interpretation in a regulation or directive of the global standards set by the basel committee critical to the future safety, both real and perceived, of the european banking sector. as coordinator for my group, i am concerned that those financial conglomerates which fall under the ficod legislation have secured more lenient treatment under solvency ii for insurance company capital and now under crd iv too. therefore i suggest that rules and capital requirements for ficod-defined financial conglomerates need to be addressed urgently to reduce systemic risk in some of europe’s largest financial institutions. my concern for long-term european investors is once again not fully addressed, and although the cva charge has rightly been dropped for non-financial companies, i am disappointed that the same exemption has not been secured for pension funds. we need to do more to recognise their unique role in the european financial system.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, let me first of all join with the sentiments that others have expressed and send my sympathies and condolences to our american friends on the terrible events in boston yesterday. as many in this house will understand, last week was also a very sad one for many conservatives with the death of margaret thatcher, although i am sure she would have been delighted to be quoted by daniel kohn-bendit today. twenty-five years ago, she set out a new direction for europe to take in her famous bruges speech. looking back on it now, it is striking how relevant it actually is to the events of today. to quote one passage, ‘what we need now is to take decisions on the next steps forward rather than let ourselves be distracted by utopian goals’. utopia never comes, because we know that we would not like it if it did. and yet even today many focus on the abstract utopian concept of somehow completing the european project. for them, only more europe is the answer. prime minister, with the help of your government, the council has set out – in my view – a much more realistic path with a reformed and reduced european budget. certainly my group would congratulate you on that. i only hope you manage to convince some of your ppe colleagues of this wise course of action, some of whom it seems want to spend even more money than the socialists sometimes. you are also to be congratulated on your opposition to the crazy policy of a financial transaction tax. well done. however, many of the eu’s economic problems stem from the fork in the road that we took back in the jacques delors days. we moved, in the eu, away from competition and the open markets that margaret thatcher championed, and towards harmonisation and over-regulation. former commissioner verheugen, i think from the socialist group, estimated that eu regulation costs european business eur 600 billion, which is four times the gdp of finland. and yet we continue to churn out more and more laws, as if our economy could cope and somehow we did not have 26 million unemployed. it was einstein who said that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and somehow expecting it to turn out differently. surely it is about time we tried a different course. mr president, the euro epitomised that utopian thinking. we rushed into the project without thinking through the economic consequences. yes, of course the debt crisis was the trigger, but the euro was a fortress built on sand. jacques delors himself said that the euro could not exist without the counterpart of a european government, and the agenda was quite clear even then. now true federalists, like our colleague mr stubb, no doubt approve of this course of action, and i thought it would be interesting to have a look back to what he said when he was in this chamber. in 2006, we had the ‘baby thatcher’ speaking in this parliament: the belgian prime minister, mr verhofstadt. i wonder what happened to him. mr stubb at the time effused: ‘there are not too many federalists out there. there are many closet federalists, but not any real federalists any more’. i bet he never repeats that in finland now. if only some national leaders had perhaps been more honest 15 years ago, we would not be in this situation today. the final cost of this utopian project will be enormous for many countries, and particularly for yours, prime minister, because we all know how unpopular the bailouts are. support for the euro, of course, is still strong in finland. given your geography, this is understandable. but do the finnish people really want to see their taxpayers’ money flowing to other parts of the currency union? we know from the remarks of your socialist finance minister that she certainly does not. we need to be honest with people about what membership of the euro is going to cost in the long term, and we need to take the very difficult decisions that are required. until we do, our attention will never be focused on the real challenge of europe, which is to maintain our competitiveness in a difficult and challenging world. former commissioner bolkestein, who i think is from your political family, mr verhofstadt, put it very well last week when he said that the euro turned out to be a sleeping pill which made europe doze off instead of considering and thinking about its competitiveness. occasionally the liberals get it right as well, mr cohn-bendit. at least we do not have to hear from the greens, which is a good thing. we should be cutting red tape, freeing up labour markets, restructuring our economies, opening up to trade and slimming down the state. that is the solution that we need for europe. but if we learn anything from margaret thatcher’s life, it is that change is possible only if you are willing to fight for it. outside this building, there is in my view a real desire for change, for the eu to focus on building a stronger economy, on reforming its policies for the 21st century, and on decentralising power. twenty-five years on, margaret thatcher’s speech still shows the way forward. let us not keep repeating the same mistakes of the past, and instead let us take europe in a new direction. thank you mr president.
mr president, first of all i would like to express my agreement with the comment made about the boston bombing. i send my condolences to the victims and their families, and my best wishes to the injured. terrorism must not, and will never, succeed. the debate is about the future of the european union, and i must say that i normally struggle to make my case in a minute, but such a debate is a very short one. what future does it have? is it like the soviet empire that had a blatant disregard for its people, which ignores it opinions and fails to give referendums – and when it does, it ignores the result and then calls for other referendums? does it steal the savings of ordinary people, like it did in cyprus? does it disregard an occupying force in north cyprus, even though it is part of the european union – which unbelievably has the status of nobel prize winner? is this the future of the european union? no. the future of the european union is doomed. it is doomed to failure. it does not have a democratic mandate. you are frightened of the people. the european union is failing, and that is why the uk needs to be out of it soon.
mr president, the prime minister’s statement was preceded by a speech on 26 march. he spoke of the uniqueness of europe’s regional integration being based on supposed common values. the eu talks about democracy and freedom of expression, but then it and its member states seek to jail people for exercising that right. the values for which the eu is most enthusiastic are those of social liberalism; consensus values only amongst social liberals. he then revealed that regional integration was on the agenda all over the world. he might have said it was on the same agenda drawn up by the same people. what will this regional integration achieve? it will promote trade and remove barriers to trade not only within each region, but between regions. in that trade, europe must be competitive, we are told. he implied strongly that labour costs would have to be curbed or even lowered. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i have every respect for daniel caspary, but we need to put some facts on the table here. at the trialogue meeting we had a very difficult negotiation. parliament’s position was 2016, while the council’s position was 1 january 2014. it became clear that the council would not move beyond october 2014. three groups – the ecr, the epp and the liberals – accepted that position and have stuck by it. gue/ngl and the greens made it very clear at that meeting that they could not accept the council’s position and did not support the compromise, and on behalf of my group i accepted the compromise ad referendum – and it was very clear that it was ad referendum, as was stated at the trialogue. post-trialogue, we indicated to the council that three groups – the socialists, the greens and gue/ngl – could not initially support the compromise so there was no bad faith or confusion, but we felt that there was a qualified majority in parliament for the compromise. that remains the position. my own group’s position is still that, if 2016 is defeated, we will vote for the compromise so that there is no bad faith and no threat to the compromise. i think every group has behaved with integrity on this issue.
mr president, with every month that passes we hand away more and more powers from eu institutions to these agencies – these quangos, these unelected executive bodies – with only the faintest idea of what they are supposed to do. i looked up the website of enisa, the european network and information security agency, and there is a helpful section that says ‘what does enisa do?’ now you tell me if you can understand the answer here. ‘the agency’s mission is essential to achieve a high and effective level of network and information security within the european union. together with the eu institutions and member states, enisa seeks to develop a culture of network and information security for the benefit of citizens, consumers, business and public-sector organisations in the european union. enisa is helping the european commission, the member states and the business community to address, respond and especially to prevent network and information security problems.’ well that’s clear, isn’t it? it is wonderful that we are handing over this enormous budget to this organisation whose employees – based in crete – will no doubt be the only people in that country who are immune from what is happening in greece. i do not want to be rude about the birthplace of el greco, your countryman by adoption, mr president, but if we were serious about this organisation, it would not be on the margins of the european union. this is all about creating a class of well-remunerated eurocrats who have a vested interest in the system.
mr president, in a world where cybersecurity is a real concern, where companies across the world are facing problems from cyber attacks – only recently in the news there were stories of american companies being attacked by what they felt were chinese cyber-attackers – it is quite clear that it is important that we tackle these issues in a cooperative manner. it should be done in a manner of cooperation, but it should not only be for the eu companies, institutions and organisations to do so. it should be done on a global basis. i am very happy for the eu to have an agency, if it works in a cooperative manner – but also if it makes sure that it cooperates with organisations outside the eu to make sure that we are truly tackling this problem at a global level. it should not be simply another excuse to have another european agency – ‘whatever the problem, let’s have another european agency or more european spending’. it should be a truly cooperative model, and let us make sure that we work with organisations around the world to make sure that we tackle this very serious problem.
in writing. − this is yet another agency which aims to control the life of european people. while i agree that it is important to keep the critical infrastructure, both virtual and real, under a high level of protection, i do not believe that the eu should have control over another aspect of the lives of the britons who pay for its existence, as would be the case should the mandate outlined in this report be established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will allow enisa to make considerable improvements on travel efficiencies. a study carried out by enisa on the use of an athens branch office shows that the remote location of crete is a fundamental weakness of the agency, with two main effects – on travel inefficiencies and the recruitment/retention of staff. the athens branch office brings a total efficiency gain and a saving of eur 352 000 per year. it is important that we make savings to the eu budget where and when we can. this is especially important in the current climate, when the council wants to cut the budget. it is not in the welsh national interest to cut the budget, as we are net beneficiaries.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency serves an important role, but it has become apparent that it is in need of some sort of reform to properly fulfil its potential. i was able to support this compromise package and accordingly voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. electronic communications, infrastructure and services are an essential factor, both directly and indirectly, in economic and societal development. they play a vital role for society and have in themselves become ubiquitous utilities. communications networks function as social and innovation catalysts, multiplying the impact of technology and shaping consumer behaviours, business models, industries, as well as citizenship and political participation. their disruption has the potential to cause considerable physical, social and economic damage, underlining the importance of measures to increase protection and resilience aimed at ensuring continuity of critical services. the security of electronic communications, infrastructure and services, in particular their integrity, availability and confidentiality, faces continuously expanding challenges which relate inter alia to the individual components of the communications infrastructure and the software controlling those components, the overall infrastructure and the services provided through that infrastructure. this is of increasing concern to society, not least because of the possibility of problems arising as a result of system complexity, malfunctions, systemic failures, accidents, mistakes and attacks that may have consequences for electronic and physical infrastructure, which delivers services critical to the well-being of european citizens.
in writing. − cyber security is becoming a major battleground in the fight against organised crime. i was happy to support this report, because i believe my london constituents can be better protected against cross-border crime when the eu has effective cross-border agencies dedicated to combatting cyber crime.
in writing. − i voted for this report as the heraklion/athens split of enisa will enable it to become more efficient.
in writing. − i understand the need to update the existing regulations designed to prevent dolphins and whales from being accidentally caught; however, i am against the cfp as a whole and therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on incidental catches of cetaceans, and support the call for much stronger regulation in this area (there will be a further and more ambitious proposal put forward in 2015). the question of minimising the impact of fishing activities on the often already threatened cetacean population (whales, dolphins, and porpoises) can be complex and controversial. the european commission’s regulation to solve the problem is focused on the use of acoustic deterrent devices and increasing the information available regarding cetaceans. in wales, we put the utmost importance on protecting the marine environment, as reflected in our excellent marine biology departments in our coastal universities.
in writing. − the incidental catch of cetaceans is an unintended consequence of fisheries which fishermen themselves seek to avoid. my colleague mr romeva’s report calls for the commission to look again at the most effective ways of avoiding these by-catches. i support any initiatives which reduce these unwanted catches whilst protecting jobs in europe’s coastal communities.
in writing. − i voted for this report. it is very important to find a legally well-founded solution that safeguards parliament’s rights created by the tfeu. the rapporteur broadly agrees with the commission's proposal to the extent that it suggests the use of: delegated acts to adapt conditions and technical specifications for the use of acoustic deterrent devices; implementing acts concerning the procedure and format for reporting obligations for member states. however, the rapporteur suggests some amendments to the commission's proposal, i.e. stricter definition of the circumstances under which the commission may adopt delegated acts.
in writing. − marine mammal populations have decreased dramatically in recent years, and tens of thousands of mammals die every year in eu waters. the current regulation 812/2004 has serious shortcomings in terms of the protection of cetacean habitats, underwater noise pollution and collision with vessels. a new overarching framework similar to the us marine mammal protection act should be explored. in the meantime, this report is an important step in the right direction.
in writing. − i voted for this report as the report suggests implementing acts concerning the procedure and format for reporting obligations for member states, as well as the use of delegated acts to adapt conditions and technical specifications for the use of acoustic deterrent devices.
in writing. − i voted against the eu-mauritius fisheries partnership agreement as i am in favour of putting an end to the plundering of mauritanian fisheries by the fleets of certain eu member states. i firmly believe that poorer states should have full use of their own resources, both natural and living – to me, this is a better approach than sending them money for so-called external aid and telling them how they should live.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is an excellent agreement, both for mauritius as well as the eu. it is of utmost importance that the fisheries policy of mauritius is supported both politically and financially to avoid over-exploitation and this agreement covers this. in wales we have a fishing industry which is important to the livelihood of many so we know how important it is that fisheries are protected.
in writing. − i welcome this report. relations in the fisheries area between the european union and the republic of mauritius started in 1989. until 2007, they were undisturbed, but at the expiry of the 2003-2007 protocol, the parties were unable to agree on the conditions for its renewal. since then the european fleet has had to operate under private access regimes. the efforts to come to an agreement were renewed in 2010 and it is those efforts that have led to the fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol that the commission initialled on 23 february 2012.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it provides for extensive cooperation between the eu and mauritius in order to promote responsible fishing, whereby the evolution of resources will be monitored. efforts will be made to ensure that local fishers are not crowded out and that the fishing activites of eu ships are not opposed to those of the local fishing communities. rather than leaving no regulation in place at all, this report ensures a properly managed agreement, with cooperation on sustainable and complimentary fishing.
in writing. − i voted for this report as the agreement covers the interests of both parties and is well balanced.
in writing. − i voted to waive the immunity of mr hans-peter martin so that he can answer charges in relation to alleged offences concerning the misappropriation of party funding.
in writing. − i voted for the removal of the immunity of mr jürgen creutzmann so that he might answer charges that, as the driver of a vehicle, he allegedly failed to give way to another vehicle at a junction, thus causing a collision between the two vehicles. the passenger of the other vehicle suffered serious injuries in the accident.
in writing. − i voted to waive the immunity of ewald stadler, who is under suspicion of attempting, on 22 december 2006, acting jointly and wilfully as an accessory (section 12 of the austrian criminal code) with another person, to exercise coercion (section 15 of the criminal code) against a member of the austrian parliament.
in writing. − while it is always a tragedy to have a large workforce face redundancy, and a sad indictment of the economic woe in which europe currently finds itself, it is my belief that the eu has been part architect of the current situation due to its implementation of austerity cuts that have killed consumer confidence and exacerbated the economic crisis. the eu should, therefore, not be in a position to pour our money into its own failings. the eu is an outdated model that is not fit for purpose in a globalised marketplace. national bodies should have full jurisdiction over trade and employment and should be able to forge partnerships with other countries as they see fit in order to manage in times of crisis and provide for their workforce, in both good times and bad.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this in order to support the 1 517 workers from the antonio merloni spa factory that were made redundant after the closure of the plant. many people across europe, as well as in wales, are facing hard times as a result of the financial and economic crisis, and it is important that we show solidarity with these workers in the wake of their redundancy.
in writing. − i supported this application. the production plants of antonio merloni s.p.a., a producer of domestic appliances, were located in the italian regions of marche and umbria, and particularly in the provinces of ancona and perugia. antonio merloni s.p.a. – in 2002 the fifth largest manufacturer of appliances in the eu – changed its sales strategy and in 2006 started selling its products directly through its own brands. with the outbreak of the global financial and economic crisis, the company got into financial difficulties, which were further exacerbated by the sudden tightening of conditions for access to financial credit. the downturn in production, which had been following the downward trend at european level, combined with the financial constraints, finally resulted in the cessation of the business activities of antonio merloni s.p.a. a total of 2 217 workers were made redundant, of whom 700 were taken over by company qa group s.p.a. this application therefore covers the 1 517 workers left jobless through the closure of antonio merloni s.p.a.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it provides for additional assistance to the 1 517 workers made redundant by antonio merloni spa between august and december 2011.
in writing. − it is always awful when, during such testing times, people face unemployment. however, this is happening across the continent and should be the priority of the nations involved, or the prerogative of allied nations to help, where possible, the countries most deeply affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns and the financial crisis. i therefore, unfortunately, cannot agree to the suggestion that we give italy an extra eur 3 689 474 from the egf reserve, as i do not believe that this adjustment fund should even exist as an eu competence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the co-ordinated package of services to be co-funded includes measures for reintegrating the 856 workers into employment, e.g. careers advice, job-search assistance, training, postgraduate education, mentoring, etc., which will have benefits for those who have lost their jobs. we must help those in wales, and across the eu, who have lost or are looking for jobs to get back into employment, and give them the necessary skills and resources.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the italian authorities argue that the strong decline of the ict sector in italy hit agile s.r.l. particularly hard. the effects of the global financial and economic crisis occurred when agile was changing its commercial strategy by moving from offering call centre services at local level to offering integrated it services at multiregional level. in a context of downturn the enterprise’s efforts and the necessary investment proved to be unequal to achieving agile’s goals of growth, resulting in heavy losses and eventually in insolvency and, as a consequence, dismissals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. even though i am highly critical of the tobacco industry itself, i express solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs. it also important to provide training for former tobacco workers to allow them to seek work in industries other than the tobacco industry.
in writing. − i abstained on this vote because i believe that the egf should be primarily allocated to training and job seeking as well as occupational orientation programmes, and its contribution to allowances should always be additional to what is available to dismissed workers under national law or collective agreements. it is important for the workers in wales and elsewhere that training programmes and assistance are effective and consistent in order to be of most benefit.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the austrian authorities argue that the cigarette and tobacco product manufacturing industry in the eu has been seriously affected by changes in world trade patterns, in particular, by a significant reduction of the eu market share and outsourcing of production to third countries. these changes in trade patterns reflect the decline in cigarette consumption in european countries, as well as in the usa and japan, over the past decade (mainly because of tobacco control measures and increasing taxation). austria backs up their arguments by citing data from the world health organisation (who).
mr president, i am pleased to be able to support the compromise allowing the deadline for african, caribbean and pacific countries to conclude their economic partnership agreements with the eu to be extended to 1 october 2014. we must allow this extra time for negotiations to reach their conclusion rather than accept failure. however, i must stress the importance of making sure these negotiations make real progress. not only is the current situation incompatible with wto rules, but it is also unfair towards countries that have fulfilled the criteria and ratified their agreements, as well as those countries that are not acp partners. it is also in the interest of the acp countries in question to conclude their negotiations as soon as possible for the benefit of their own economies. i firmly believe the economic partnership agreements are a vital factor in supporting development across the world by promoting regional integration into the global economy, as well as by supporting reforms that boost developing economies.
mr president, the acp countries by and large are former colonies of individual eu countries, and we have replaced a system of individual colonialism with a kind of collective economic colonialism, where we have made the acp as a unit dependent economically on the eu. what these countries desperately need is the openness of our markets – the ability to sell the products which above all they depend on, which are agrarian surpluses. but we are selfishly attached to our common agricultural policy and have refused to do that. we instead compensate them with aid, which draws them into a position of dependency and vassalage and which benefits a small number of people in acp countries over the general population. you cannot help noticing, if you go to acp meetings, that the leaders from the acp countries are much more permanent than those in the democratic eu countries. they have learnt how to make the system work, because foreign aid gives them a revenue stream independent of their tax base and so cuts the link between taxation, representation and expenditure. the one thing we could really do to help those countries is to open our markets.
mr president, if you look at the situation of many acp countries and developing countries around the world, one of the things that entrepreneurs in these countries are calling out for is more open markets. they want more open access to our markets, but at the same time they want to see more liberalisation and competition in their own markets. if you are a supplier of goods or services, you do not want to be constrained to a monopoly provider or a government-backed entity in that country. now, we all believe that one of the best ways to help poorer countries to get out of development is to help entrepreneurs in those countries. but at the same time we should recognise that there should not be a one-size-fits-all approach. if a country does not want to liberalise or does not want to sign an economic partnership agreement, it should be allowed to opt out of the agreement. and it is absolutely right that we are giving some individual countries extra time, but at the end of the day, they will have to negotiate their own agreements if they do not want to face the high tariffs. the best way is to actually remove all tariffs altogether. unfortunately, that is not what we are proposing. but let us help entrepreneurs in developing countries by reducing tariffs and giving them access to our markets. thank you.
in writing. − i voted against this report because negotiations are progressing with some countries but have not been concluded yet; an exclusion from benefits will therefore be premature. other acp members do not want to conclude economic partnership agreements and should not be penalised for this. alternative regimes should be negotiated. as a ‘fair trade nation’, wales has a strong lobby for fair trade agreements.
in writing. − i am delighted that 95% of the parliament voted for the compromise that i negotiated, and that acp countries will, as a result, enjoy continued trade preferences for at least an additional nine months.
in writing. − ending duty-free quota-free market access for some african, caribbean and pacific countries whilst their economic partnership agreements have not been finalised could have serious economic consequences for countries which produce commodities like sugar, which is price-elastic and would be subject to tariffs, thus having a serious effect on the amount of the product exported from particular acp countries. countries such as kenya would suffer more, for example with regard to their cut flower exports, and would end up facing higher barriers of entry to the single market than colombia. i supported a longer deadline of january 2016 to allow acp countries to conclude negotiations, but an october 2014 deadline at least gives these countries a chance of establishing their epas before the wto conditions against dfqf must be reapplied.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the report proposes extending the deadline to 1 january 2016 – until then acp countries would still have duty-free and quota-free access to the eu’s markets.
mr president, i believe climate change does pose a real threat to our futures, as does energy security. we do need to move to a lower carbon economy and especially to investment in new nuclear. long-term investment like this does need a long-term strategy, but right now today, high energy prices are also causing real problems for many millions of households, and the eu’s energy policies have caused many businesses to relocate to other parts of the globe. we therefore need a global approach, and it is good to know that other parts of the world are now also setting up their own emissions trading schemes. this back-loading vote has been difficult, but fundamentally we know that the back-loading was a poor sticking plaster which did not solve the problems with the ets. i hope the commission will look rapidly at proposals for a significant long-term structural and affordable reform.
mr president, it is worth remembering that, long before it became popular, one of the first people to talk about the connection between greenhouse gases and climate change was the then prime minister of the united kingdom, margaret thatcher, and i hope that you of all people will allow me in the circumstances to say a word or two about her. it is almost impossible to appreciate the magnitude of her achievement without considering the calamity which preceded her: the three-day week, the prices and incomes policies and the double-digit inflation. we felt as if we were finished as a country, and by force of will she turned it round. she refused to accept that a great people would decline for ever. of course she is not popular here in the councils of europe. she was eventually brought down by a group of conservative mps who thought that she was wrong about opposing the single currency, but with retrospect, can anyone doubt that she got that one right? now, in the aftermath of her death, there is division and argument, which is in a way a tribute to her. she knew that with a country that needed fixing as badly as britain in 1979, you could not do it without upsetting some people. in truth, the reason that she is disliked is because she never lost an election. she took a country that was ruined, bankrupt and dishonoured and left it prosperous, comfortable and free. the rage of her enemies will never be appeased because it is the rage of caliban.
mr president, as the previous speaker said, just as mrs thatcher found a country broken in 1979 and fixed much of it, the eu emissions trading system also clearly has its problems and needs to be fixed. but the problem with the solution that was proposed – the so-called back-loading – is that it is quite clear that this represents a massive intervention in what is supposed to be a market process. and this is the reason that the ecr opposed it because, if you could simply change the terms of the whole auction process, what is to stop the commission suddenly saying: ‘well, let us just cancel a few more permits’? it is quite clear that this would have a massive impact on the market overall and cause major concern. there is already concern at some of the so-called de-industrialisation in europe, where companies are saying: ‘we will no longer abide by these rules and we will simply emit this pollution elsewhere’. it is quite clear that the system does need to be fixed but, when we do reform it, let us make sure that this is actually based on true market principles. maybe then we can get it right.
mr president, since this parliament voted to reject the groote report, the carbon price has halved to just over two euros. that is not a technical issue. that means that investment in renewable energy, ccs and indeed nuclear power becomes more expensive across the european union. i think this is a very black day for eu climate policy. it is a particularly bad day for my country. i note that the tory meps have mainly disappeared across there, but apparently they have been going around telling everybody that their vote against their own government today is symbolic. i want to know what it is a symbol of. have they become so eurosceptic that they reject european solutions to everything; that they reject the views of the cbi, shell, unilever, tesco, phillips, kingfisher, johnson and johnson and the uk corporate leaders group? or perhaps it is symbolic of the fact that they want to challenge their prime minister and reject the greening. daniel hannan talked about mrs thatcher. two former tory environment ministers have this morning put an article in the media saying that mrs thatcher recognised climate change and that she would have wanted the eu to act on climate change. but here we have tory meps, who clearly do not understand business, putting their euroscepticism before the interests of british jobs and british industry.
mr president, we have many times in this parliament said that if we wished to encourage low carbon investments, then a price must be put on carbon. i am very much afraid that today we have turned our back on that policy and on our own future – our own technological future. but then the uk has a special interest in this issue, because not only do we endorse that european policy, we have gone further: the coalition government in the uk has introduced a carbon floor price to maintain a minimum price for carbon, so as to encourage those low carbon investments. of course, while that price exists and while that price is higher than on the european market, there is no level playing field. it must, therefore, be in the interests of british representatives to stand up and say that the european emissions trading system needs to be tightened and that the price should be levelled. but british conservatives today have stabbed their own coalition government in the back; they have stabbed european climate change policy in the front; and they have dealt a major blow to the reputation of their own party. a few years ago, david cameron was seen cuddling a husky to try to improve his party’s environmental credentials. today, british conservatives have not only killed that husky. they have kicked its corpse.
in writing. − i am, in principle, against the ets system and a market-driven approach to combating climate change. however, the current reality is that voting against the backloading measures would be a political signal to stop investing in reduced carbon technologies and it would be a political signal that climate change policies are no longer a priority. instead, i would like to give a political signal in favour of policies combating climate change and therefore i have voted in favour of the groote report. but above all, i call for a total revision of the ets system, as it is currently not working as intended.
in writing. − we oppose the eu ets and every amendment to it. it is a failed and failing policy and we call for its complete abolition.
in writing. − i am in favour of delaying the auctioning of emissions allowances in the eu’s ets in order to increase the deflated price of carbon and combining that with structural measures to reduce the supply of carbon. i voted against the amendment to reject the commission proposal but that amendment was passed by parliament and the report will return to the committee. my constituents in wales will be disappointed.
in writing. − i regret that parliament did not support this sensible proposal to give the commission flexibility in the timing of auctions of greenhouse gas allowances.
in writing. − i voted for this report because of the serious health and environmental risks posed by carbon pollution. without this report, the over-allocation of credits would force the price of carbon pollution down within the ets. in the hours since parliament rejected this report, the price for carbon trading has already plummeted – making it cheaper for companies to pollute within the eu. this was a close vote and the conservatives voted against, allowing the report to fall, and flying in the face of their own government's position. my constituents in london, already living in one of the most polluted cities in europe, will suffer disproportionately as a consequence of this vote.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it allows the propping up of the eu’s carbon market and will give the commission a legal mandate to propose an amendment to the timetable for auctioning of ets allowances.
in writing. − the emissions trading scheme (ets) is at the heart of the eu’s climate change policy and, as the only system of its kind, has helped make europe a world leader in fighting global warming. however, the reduction in industrial output since the economic downturn, combined with an over-allocation of carbon credits in the previous two rounds, has led to a dramatic drop in the price of carbon and means the scheme is now in danger of collapse. this is why i voted in favour of this report, which would have allowed the commission to alter the timetable for the auctioning of ets allowances. by releasing fewer permits in the short term, it was hoped the price of carbon would be pushed back up, thus getting the scheme back on track. a higher price of carbon would be an incentive for investment in clean, low-carbon technology, which is vital if we are serious about tackling climate change. unfortunately, the european parliament, with support from several uk conservatives, voted against the proposal, and this will put the survival of the scheme, and the eu’s ability to meet its carbon reduction targets, in doubt.
in writing. − the ukip position has always been one of complete opposition to the eu ets and its justificatory mindset of a manmade co2 global warming scare story based on bogus and discredited theories. we want to see the abolition of the ets. the liese report went through several versions until the ‘final version 3’ on the day. our tactical position on the final version of the voting list aimed to block, slow down, and discredit the eu ets are much as possible. we achieved this by successfully sending the report back to committee and defeating the commission’s so-called backloading position. the whole matter is now one of vigorous debate which can only be good for democracy.
in writing. − at a time when we should be doing all we can to protect jobs and boost trade and investment, it is deeply regrettable that the outworking of the ets – and the mess that this whole scheme has become – now severely threatens jobs and threatens billions of pounds worth of investment in the aviation sector. in my constituency of northern ireland, aircraft manufacturing is a huge part of our industry. it is an industry we must protect. this is one of those perfect examples of where, if you cannot do a job well, it should be left well alone. i do not deny the need to deal effectively with pollution, but rather than an ill-thought-out scheme it ought to be done in conjunction with the industry.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal as it demonstrates lack of resolve regarding eu environmental and climate policy. globally, climate change is worsening and, even though the eu is on track to meet its 2020 climate change targets, we need to be setting more ambitious targets. wales has led the way with its commitment to annual emissions reduction and we should be more ambitious if we are to achieve our economic, social and environmental goals.
in writing. − in light of the icao council decision of 9 november 2012, the european commission announced a proposal to suspend the application of the eu ets for intercontinental flights. on 20 november, the commission submitted a proposal to parliament and to the council to stop the clock. this proposal is intended to reinforce the positive momentum in the icao and to enhance the chances of a successful outcome at the 2013 icao general assembly. firstly, in terms of developing a global-market-based measure, and secondly, in terms of adopting a framework that facilitates states' application of market-based measures on international aviation in the time before the global market based measure enters into force. the proposal does not envisage the implementation of the eu ets for intercontinental flights in respect of emissions during 2012. flights inside the european area will be covered by the obligation of the directive as decided by the parliament and council in 2008. all measures are non-discriminatory, which means that the same rules apply for eu and non-eu carriers. that means that an eu carrier that flies from an eu airport to a third-country airport is exempted and a third country carriers flying inside the european area will be covered by the obligations of the directive.
in writing. − my london constituency, as one of the largest hubs for air traffic in the world, suffers a whole manner of aviation-related pollution. i welcomed and voted for this report, as it gives operators of non-eu flights a chance to properly comply with the requirements of the eu ets in the event that no agreement is reached in 2013 at the icao general assembly. making airlines pay for the cost of the pollution they cause is vital in the fight against climate change. however, so is securing an agreement with non-eu countries – as this report does – that allows the eu ets scheme to have the widest possible influence. this means that, in the new year, any flights entering or leaving the eu will have to comply with our environmental standards.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it will defer enforcement of the eu ets for aviation for one year and allow breathing space for the promising international negotiations to come to a global agreement to regulate emissions from international aviation.
mr president, there can be no doubt that, since the 2008 global credit crunch and the collapse of many banks internationally – which is still a problem, as evidenced by the most recent crisis in cyprus and possibly now in slovenia – all is not well with the capital adequacy of our banks, hence the need to tighten requirements under the basel iii agreements. the capital requirements directive (crd iv) legislation before us today is controversial for several reasons as, for instance, it seeks to regulate pay, and in particular the bankers’ bonuses, which are, rightly or wrongly, blamed for encouraging over-leveraging and non-prudential banking as well as short-termism aimed at increasing immediate profit rather than long-term stability. however, the crd iv rightly aims to increase to1 capital and liquidity levels, which is important, and eventually to introduce maximum leverage levels and also various buffers, as well as good governannce rules on bank management. the proposal allows the uk to go further in capital adequacy if it so chooses. nevertheless, overall, because of the bonus issue which may well impact negatively on the city of london – which i am proud to represent – and the ignoring of several other basel committee requirements, i abstained, as did my delegation.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it develops and extends the eu’s power over the city of london and also fails to meet basel iii requirements.
in writing. − we in the uk still are picking up the pieces of the implosion of our banking system. every taxpayer in the land has had to foot the bill for the grossly irresponsible practices of bankers, playing fast and loose with money that they simply did not have. those same bankers to this day have yet to face justice for their actions. they still collect their hefty pensions and escape accountability. how is that right? if banks go bust in future it should not fall to the taxpayer to bail them out – that shortfall should be met by equity holders and subordinated debtors. until we get to a situation where this sort of carelessness is not possible, then we fall short in protecting our constituents – the hardworking, decent taxpayer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because urgent steps need to be taken in order to address weaknesses in the banking system such as fragile bank liquidity positions and weak bank capitalisation. in particular, my constituents in wales welcome the cap on bank bonuses and better provision for lending to small businesses.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which among other things states that, ‘the member states should be able to refuse or withdraw a banking authorisation in the case of certain group structures considered inappropriate for carrying on banking activities, because such structures cannot be supervised effectively. in this respect the competent authorities should have the necessary powers to ensure the sound and prudent management of credit institutions. in order to secure a sustainable and diverse eu banking culture which primarily serves the interest of the people, small-scale banking activities, such as those of credit unions and cooperative banks, should be encouraged.’
in writing. − i voted to cap bankers bonuses because the uk government has failed to act on the high-risk and no-reward culture that bonuses have created. it is not fair that my constituents in london suffer cuts to their public services at hospitals and local libraries, and cuts to unemployment and disability benefit, caused by the crisis that irresponsible banking created, whilst bankers and traders of publicly-owned banks still enjoy excessive bonuses.
in writing. − the ecr agrees that an international banking industry requires international regulation, and we support moves towards a global standard. we welcome the parliament's success in securing safeguards which limit the harm to real-economy lending, e.g. special status for building societies and protecting mortgage payers who face temporary difficulties. nevertheless, we are concerned that this legislation is not fully compliant with basel iii requirements, particularly with regard to the write-down or conversion of junior tiers of debt prior to any taxpayer-funded bailout. this was a key amendment for our group which has been dropped from the text since the committee vote in may last year. the basel committee on banking supervision also identified a number of areas in this legislation which were materially non-compliant with basel standards: there is no binding minimum standard on what constitutes high loss-absorbing capital, no commitment to a net stable funding ratio and no requirement to hold 60% of liquidity coverage ratio in the highest quality liquid assets. the result is that this piece of legislation does not sufficiently meet internationally agreed banking standards which aim to prevent a future financial crisis. it is for this reason that the ecr has decided to abstain on the final vote of this package.
in writing. − i fully support a raft of new measures to reform the eu banking system, including a cap on bankers' bonuses, transparency for payments made by banks to governments, and financing the real economy. the uk tories have rejected calls for a cap on bankers' pay, but are at the same time freezing public sector pay. this shows once again that they are more interested in protecting those in the banking sector who have taken excessive risks than ordinary working people. i welcome new rules to make sure that banks that are ‘too big to fail’ are required to set aside more capital to ensure that there are sufficient safeguards in the banking system to ensure credit during ‘stress’ periods. i believe that new measures adopted by the european parliament can put an end to the current banking model, where banks largely owned by the taxpayer are still paying out bonuses for bankers that have fixed libor rates, mis-sold payment protection insurance and suffered eur 5.2 billion in losses.
in writing. − i joined fellow meps in voting overwhelmingly in favour of this report, which aims to make banks safer, more accountable, and more focused on their essential role of lending to the real economy. measures included in the report should put an end to the excessive risk culture that led to bank bail-outs and bank collapses, and ensure a more sustainable banking model. banks were previously given a chance to show restraint and regulate themselves but have failed to do so. in supporting this report, we have forced restraint on the banks by ensuring that the salary to bonus ratio cannot be more than 1:1, or 1:2 if agreed by shareholders. the report also includes requirements for greater transparency on banks’ profit, loss and turnover, requirements for large banks to hold additional capital, and measures to ensure that the cost of lending to smes does not go up during times of economic downturn. at a time of austerity, when banks have been bailed out, ordinary citizens quite rightly object to bankers receiving huge bonuses. in supporting this report, labour meps voted for what the vast majority of european people want.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it develops and extends the eu’s power over the city of london and also fails to meet basel iii requirements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because urgent steps need to be taken in order to address weaknesses in the banking system, such as fragile bank liquidity positions and weak bank capitalisation. in particular, my constituents in wales welcome the cap on bank bonuses and better provision for lending to small businesses.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which states ‘considering the devastating effects of the latest financial crisis the overall objectives of this regulation are to encourage economically useful banking activities that shall serve the general interest and to discourage unsustainable financial speculation without a real added value. this implies a comprehensive reform of the ways savings are channelled into productive investments. in order to safeguard a sustainable and diverse banking environment in europe, competent authorities should be empowered to impose significantly higher capital requirements for systemically important institutions that are able, due to their business activities, to pose a threat to the global economy.’
in writing. − i joined fellow meps in voting overwhelmingly in favour of this report, which aims to make banks safer, more accountable, and more focussed on their essential role of lending to the real economy. measures included in the report should put an end to the excessive risk culture that led to bank bail-outs and bank collapses, and ensure a more sustainable banking model. banks were previously given a chance to show restraint and regulate themselves, but have failed to do so. in supporting this report, we have forced restraint on the banks by ensuring that the salary-to-bonus ratio cannot be more than 1:1, or 1:2 if agreed by shareholders. the report also includes requirements for greater transparency on banks profit, loss and turnover, requirements for large banks to hold additional capital, and measures to ensure that the cost of lending to smes does not go up during times of economic downturn. at a time of austerity, when banks have been bailed-out, ordinary citizens quite rightly object to bankers receiving huge bonuses. in supporting this report, labour meps voted for what the vast majority of european people want.
mr president, although the aim of the proposed new regulations on ground handling services at european union airports has good intentions, such as attempting to open the market and increase airport efficiency, there is severe doubt that it would actually add much value to the existing directive. recent amendments, such as the guarantee that existing collective agreements with trade unions must be honoured by any new ground handling company, have actually fallen short of mollifying union and wider stakeholder concerns. but anyway, in my view it is politically a step in the wrong direction. crucially, there has been a distinct lack of evidence that the legislation would increase overall airport efficiency, a topic of crucial importance to my london constituents as they begin to look forward to their summer holidays departing from busy london hub airports, such as heathrow. as a uk conservative, i, along with my delegation, voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted against this report as the measures it outlines, for example extra regulation on the electronic identification of baggage, are unnecessary and completely anti-free market.
in writing. − i voted against this report because bad working conditions for ground handlers will have a negative impact on quality, safety and security. the commission proposes a minimum training period for ground-handlers of two days, which is too short. the liberalisation of services is not the answer to capacity problems, and it will only apply to five airports in any case. the welsh government has purchased cardiff airport and will have to draw up a strategy for its improvement. i do not believe that these measures will assist in any way.
in writing. − i was unable to support today’s report on a proposal this house rejected only a few months ago. i am not convinced that the text adopted adequately protects the rights of all workers in an industry which is vital for public safety. we must continue to work to ensure these workers’ rights are protected and to ensure the safety of groundhandling services.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal as it has the potential to enhance the social/employment provisions of groundhandling sector staff.
in writing. − i am happy to vote in favour of this report, despite the fact that, in principle, it extends the liberalisation process of ground handling in some eu airports, particularly in germany. many of us were facing a dilemma. whilst recognising the unhappiness of airport workers in those two countries, another rejection would have left us with the status quo in all other member states, which would have been totally unacceptable. open liberalisation in many countries has led to a diminishing not only of social and working conditions, but also to a poorer service to the travelling public. this position would have been unacceptable, and whilst this report is not perfect, parliament has at least secured some protection measures for affected workforces across the rest of the eu. it is because i believe that 1 % of something is better than 100 % of nothing that i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this report as uk workers in the groundhandling sector will benefit more from the enhanced social/employment provisions proposed by this report.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to further liberalise the eu’s groundhandling industry, which provides services such as baggage, freight and mail handling, by raising the minimum number of agents at airports from two to three. in december 2012, i joined fellow labour meps in voting to send the report back to committee as we felt it needed to include more safeguards to ensure that liberalisation did not result in a race to the bottom in terms of rights and conditions for groundhandling workers. the revised report that we supported today includes measures to improve the social conditions and training for groundhandlers and ensures workers will have proper contracts and wages. it also requires collective agreements to be respected by both suppliers and sub-contractors. we were also able to ensure that further liberalisation will only be required for airports serving more than 15 million passengers a year, as opposed to the 5 million proposed by the commission. for the uk, where airports already go well above the minimum requirements for groundhandlers, this report represents an improvement for workers in terms of their social conditions, as well as for passengers who will benefit from increased minimum quality criteria.
in writing. − i am, of course, in favour of the implementation of measures to stop discards. however, i am against the cfp as a whole and abstained from voting therefore.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report so that the treaty between sweden and norway on fishing will comply with eu rules, including a ban on discards in norwegian waters. this matters very much to my constituents in wales.
in writing. − in voting for mr kuhn’s report i consulted members whose constituents are affected by the proposals. the aims of the text, including the elimination of discards, are welcome ones which have the support of the populations in the areas covered.
in writing. − since 1986 fisheries in the skagerrak have been governed by an international agreement. norway has denounced the agreement. the denunciation took effect on 1 november 2012. a new limited agreement is being negotiated but it is uncertain when it will enter into force. during the fisheries consultations in 2010 between eu and norway it was agreed that a working group be set up to make suggestions on how fisheries should take place in a situation without a fisheries agreement. amongst the suggestions of the working group were to improve the control and enforcement measures in the fisheries in the skagerrak and to recommend ways to harmonise eu and norwegian technical and control measures regulations in the area outside four nautical miles from the baselines. the working group’s recommendations were included in the agreed record by the eu and norway in bergen on 2 december 2011. the proposal for a regulation builds in part on the agreed record.
in writing. − this report is in essence a pilot for wider cfp reform, which i wholeheartedly welcome. fish stocks in eu waters are declining dramatically as a result of the failure of the cfp. my london constituency is home to one of the largest fish markets in the world and, without reform of the cfp to make fishing in the eu sustainable for the long-term future, that business and livelihood will not be around for the thousands of people who depend on it.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it supports the essential objective of the cfp – the placing of a discard ban in the skagerrak strait.
mr president, gender equality is of course something which all politicians should support. women have been historically discriminated against and the global battle for emancipation of the sexes has not yet been fully won. nevertheless, equality is an extremely complex issue. for instance, treating women and men the same in matters of insurance ignores a range of gender-specific factors, such as physical strength, longevity or risk aversion, which i think are important. almost everybody here must agree that women are safer drivers than men. generalisations always lead to anomalies and occasional injustice, but the test-achats ruling on car insurance was a rare case where women were benefiting from a system that recognised a quality rather than an apparent deficiency. therefore, for this reason, amongst others, i voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services because it identifies further areas where we can combat discrimination. plaid cymru, the party of wales, places the utmost importance on equality, and supporting legislation to help promote equality is a vital part of the fight against discrimination.
in writing. − i welcome this report which, among other things, calls on the commission to take into consideration cases of discrimination in relation to pregnancy, planning of motherhood, and maternity, as regards, for instance, the housing sector (renting) or difficulties in obtaining loans, as well as access to medical goods and services, in particular access to legally available reproductive healthcare and gender reassignment treatment.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i am committed to continuing the fight against gender discrimination for my london constituents. insurance companies and related financial services will now have to treat individual male and female customers equally in terms of premiums and benefits. some member states’ governments have used the crisis as an excuse to delay gender equality reforms on the premise that they are not vital, but with my women constituents in london bearing a disproportionate amount of the cuts which our austerity-focused government has made, it is unacceptable to think that the fight for women's equality is of lesser importance.
in writing. − i voted for this report as the 2004 council directive addressed for the first time at eu level discrimination based on sex outside the field of employment. however, the commission has to ensure that loopholes in the legislation do not appear and that the directive is applied properly.
in writing. − the gender directive was the first european directive designed to combat gender-based discrimination beyond the parameters of the labour market, particularly with regards to insurance. i fully support this report, which aims to ensure the effective implementation of this important directive. access to and supply of goods and services should be founded on principles of equal treatment, not a person’s gender. it is vital that the commission does all it can to monitor the latest developments in the insurance market by liaising with organisations that deal with equality, in order to determine problems and to ensure that good, transparent practice is maintained and gender-neutral pricing implemented. all eu citizens should have access to the same insurance services, irrespective of their gender, and the effective application of the gender directive is a pivotal component of the eu’s strategy for achieving gender equality.
in writing. − the european court of justice’s unreasonable test-achats ruling has adversely affected young female drivers who have seen their premiums rise by as much as 38 % since december last year. those who welcome this judgment are out of touch and befuddled by ultra-feminism. young female drivers have consistently proved to be far safer drivers than young males and they should benefit from lower insurance premiums because of it. not only does this report welcome the ecj ruling, but it also calls for the commission to go further than the scope of the ruling. it calls for the commission to police more actively discrimination on the basis of gender, not only in the field of insurance, but also for all goods and services. i voted against this report because i believe that insurance premiums should be decided on the basis of genuine risk. i am also strongly opposed to the concept of an eu gender police which may, as in the test-achats case, end up making things worse – not better – for women.
mr president, i agree with the premise that opening up trade is one of the most effective ways to advance development. it is self-evident that, if developing states can ensure that appropriate internal conditions are put into place, such as fighting corruption and pursuing inclusive economic development, trade can arguably boost developing economies more effectively than any other development measure. however, i feel that this own-initiative report somewhat impedes itself with calls for binding corporate social responsibility clauses and international labour standards. strictly applying these criteria could limit the success of other measures that are included in the report. although multinational firms have certain responsibilities that, quite correctly, they should abide by, applying measures too strictly can discourage investment and completely negate attempts to open up trade. when applying social and/or environmental standards, these must respect two points. they must, ideally, be agreed on at global level and not just be initiated and imposed by the eu on the developing world, and they must correspond to their economic level of development. it is therefore with regret that i vote against this report, whilst welcoming some of the conclusions made within it.
mr president, the eu started life as a trading bloc, and its most fundamental and appealing quality remains that it is a bastion of free trade in which the wide exchange of goods and services builds prosperity for those who participate in its networks. this basic principle applies just as well outside the eu, so we welcome the thrust of mr svensson’s report, namely that trade should be a key engine for economic development and growth. it is therefore regrettable that the report has been stymied by a series of over-prescriptive paragraphs which detract from the essence of a market-driven approach to development and place far too many restrictions on developing countries and the businesses which might wish to locate there. few doubt the importance of corporate social responsibility and labour standards, but subjecting poorer countries to unrealistic standards and goals will choke them economically rather than liberate their development. there must always be compromises between enterprise and responsibility, but this report sadly seems to have missed these. therefore, for this reason, i and my delegation voted against the report.
in writing. − while i agree in principle with many of the mechanisms outlined in this report, i abstained from voting from fear that this is little more than an eu pr action. it is, no doubt, better to actually help developing countries rather than simply throw money at them; however, the uk already has a very long history of being a responsible donor.
in writing. − i abstained on this report as, although there is some good language in it on social, and human rights, it is weak on several important issues. paragraphs on the maintenance of export taxes were deleted during the vote. many developing countries depend on export taxes to attract foreign investment, for price stability, to improve terms of trade, and to deal with currency devaluations and inflation. furthermore, a paragraph calling on the commission to include binding corporate social responsibility clauses in all bilateral trade and investment agreements signed by the eu was rejected. as a fair trade nation these issues are important to wales.
in writing. − i welcome this report which stresses the importance of combining trade reforms with well-designed public policies, notably social protection. it stresses, more broadly, the importance of timely, and well-prepared national development strategies and systematic impact assessments of existing trade policy on poverty. it calls on the commission to implement the guidance prepared by the un rapporteur on the right to food which calls for the use of human rights impact assessments – ‘guiding principles on human rights impact assessments of trade and investment agreements’ – when concluding trade and investment agreements, to ensure that these are consistent with obligations under international human rights instruments. it also urges the eu to incorporate clear conditionality and clauses on human rights and democracy in all its trade agreements.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report as it recognised the importance of emphasising fairer trade and good governance as vital aspects of any trade agreements between the eu and less economicaly developed countries. the eu can and must promote good governance by means of its trade policy and it should insist on transparency and correct procedures before cooperation is initiated. only in this way can my london constituents be sure that the taxes they pay towards aid and development really are going towads the poorest and most disadvantaged in these countries. i supported s&d amendments which focused on the need to protect local production and human rights, supported fair trade schemes, and the incorporation of corporate social responsibility clauses on trade agreements signed with the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this report as, provided they are used in the right way, trade policy instruments can have a substantial impact on development in poor countries, by formulating trade agreements with more developed countries and participating more properly in the international economy.
in writing. − trade is a vital tool to help developing countries around the world and i support this own initiative report which highlights the link between trade liberalisation and poverty reduction. opening up trade when the right conditions are in place is an effective way to stimulate growth and in turn, help developing countries. i support the calls for trade between the eu and developing countries to be based on ilo labour standards and working conditions. furthermore, it is essential to secure corporate social responsibility in free trade agreements in order to secure decent wages and safe places to work and to meet social and environmental standards. finally, labour meps have repeatedly called for fair trade between the eu and developing countries, and i particularly support paying a fair price for resources and agricultural products from those countries.
mr president, i have supported many of the issues raised in the saïfi report, with its aim of achieving the sustainable and inclusive growth of all parties through, amongst other things, the transfer of technologies and skills, the development of new markets and related job opportunities. in addition, i support the aim to achieve an increase in north-south and south-south competitiveness and productivity, which will ultimately contribute to greater social cohesion and a reduction in inequalities. the ecr has amended the report to underline support for development of the private sector and its greater participation in trade and investment at different levels such as the local, regional, bilateral and multilateral levels. however, i have had serious concerns on several issues in this report, in particular regarding the language on investor-state dispute settlement and new binding corporate social responsibility. as a member of the committee on international trade, i think a better wording can be found on these points, and i therefore decided to abstain from this vote.
mr president, i am very honoured, thank you. everybody in this house should be in favour of boosting trade for the benefit of developing countries and the least-developed nations of this planet, and this report has much to recommend it. several passages rightly address the need to boost access to major markets by improving, for instance, good governance and economic diversification. i also welcome the paragraphs on investing in ldc infrastructure in order to enable local and regional trade integration amongst the poorest countries. however, like the svensson report, there are far too many strings attached to make this a fully-viable contribution to trade and development. i am uneasy, in particular, about the extension of already-strong social, labour and environmental provisions. some of the proposed measures will help the richer developing countries, which are paradoxically now rapidly becoming our competitors. therefore, despite the many worthy principles of the report, i will be abstaining on this occasion. however, i look forward to seeing future inter reports which promote prosperity for the world’s poorest people without imposing excessive red tape, regulation or protectionism.
in writing. − the uk is already adopting the practices central to the bilateral trade agreement outlined in this report. it seems to me that the eu wants to be seen as a key player on the global scene and this report is simply pr action designed to achieve that end, rather than a demonstration of any true concern for poorer countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, which reflected a broad agreement between all groups in parliament and which will assist developing countries internationally who have been hit disproportionately in the wake of the global financial crisis. my group was able to amend some aspects of the report, putting more emphasis on green technology, recognising that developing countries suffer disproportionately in many financial disputes with investors, and including binding clauses on environmental, labour, and human rights standards. as a fair trade nation these issues are important to wales.
in writing. − this report makes an important call for the commission to include a democracy and human rights clause in all trade agreements with developing countries. it is vital that the eu engages in responsible international trade and parliament’s calls in this area are to be welcomed.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which expresses concern at the proliferation of tied aid practices; urges the developed countries and the major emerging countries not to resort to such practices, but, rather, to make efforts to harness regional and local resources, including human capital, in their economic development projects centring on trade and investment.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report, which calls on the eu to pursue pro-development trade policies. sustainable development and capacity building are vital aspects of the development process for any country, and we should whole-heartedly support these efforts.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it emphasises the importance of promoting sustainable development and assistance with capacity building by the eu to specific african countries.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, commissioner. you know, mr draghi, that i am always impressed by your totally non-compromising support for the euro, doomed though we all now know it to be. it appeals to this certain englishman – there is a sort of shakespearian quality, i have to say: lear-like. it puts me in mind of his great speech: ‘i will do such things, – what they are, yet i know not: but they shall be the terrors of the earth’. can i make a plea for my friends and their families in cyprus? a micro-brewer who had his savings in a bank to start a micro-brewing company – not a rich man at all, but of course it was more than eur 100 000, because it was his life savings. a retired british army officer whose life savings have now all but disappeared in the great cypriot bank heist. of course the big boys got their money out early, didn’t they? it is always the little people who get shafted, isn’t it? i am not totally convinced that you really care about them. can you give me an assurance that you will do whatever it takes to get these poor people’s money back? we now have a situation which the previous speaker, mr eppink, alluded to quite rightly: the fed, the bank of england, the ecb and the bank of japan are all completely bankrupt, and they are holding mountains of junk bonds bought with counterfeit money. let us all blame the retail banks – but it is the central banks where the cancer starts. politicians, bankers and lackey bureaucrats should be arraigned at an international financial tribunal in the hague in the same way as war criminals. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – let me assure you that united kingdom politicians and central bankers are no less stupid than the people out here or the people in washington. believe me, they disgust me just as much. they have absolutely no idea, and they are bankrupting the united kingom just the same way this organisation is bankrupting western europe. yes, i take your point very well.
madam president, the ecb’s role in the eu is at a crossroads, as it amasses more powers and responsibilities in the area of financial supervision, and as member states, rightly or wrongly, are becoming more reliant upon its role in creating monetary policy in these difficult economic times. i am therefore pleased that there are areas of this report that refer to different strategies being used by different central banks elsewhere in the eu and beyond, such as the merlin programme in the united kingdom, requiring banks which make use of the bank of england’s liquidity provision to meet targets on sme lending, as well as other examples of good practice further afield around the world. there is no perfect model for a central bank to follow, particularly in a time of unprecedented stress such as this. however, the ecb is in a particularly difficult position, with so many different taskmasters and politicians seeking to influence it. the one point that i can agree with in this report is that we need to strongly protect the independence of the ecb from political control. however, it also needs to remain fully accountable to the taxpayers of europe for the decisions that it takes.
madam president, you have said that you are determined to make sure that funds that have been injected into the economy find their way to financing the real sector. so i, like others, would urge you to look at the injection site, as the pain relief seems to be being absorbed before it gets to the site where it is most needed, which is in the peripheral smes. currently, it is also important to ensure that the inflation target is not overshot. in the game of averages, it must be ‘win some, lose some’, not always ‘win, win’ or ‘lose, lose’, depending on where you are. finally, i know that transparency and central banking do not always lie comfortably together and that covert operations play a part, but experience is now suggesting that, on balance, disclosure about ela operations is needed. this forbearance on the issue of supervision reinforces the greater need for transparency.
madam president, the eurozone and the ecb are not a solution to the difficulties of the european union; they are part of the problem. during the early years of the eurozone, northern europe needed low interest rates to improve its growth. however, those low interest rates caused a property boom in spain. when that boom came to an end, the banks found that they had insufficient security for their loans. in 2011, the ecb conducted two distinct and contradictory interest rate policies. the answer is that a common interest rate, like a common currency value, cannot be appropriate for 17 different economies. the report suggests that there ought to be wage increases in the north of the eu in order to stimulate aggregate demand in the south. however, would you encourage employers to increase wages above the market rate? they will certainly not be encouraged to do so when there is a plentiful supply of labour resulting from an open-door policy on immigration, nor will they do so when they have the freedom to export jobs to the far east by relocating industry.
mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, mr langen has put up a blue card. no, it is not him. who was it? the colleague before, which was mr papanikolaou. do you accept the intervention? no, he does not accept the intervention. i am very sorry, mr langen. ask somebody else. mr løkkegaard, will you accept an intervention? you do accept? go ahead, werner.
mr staes, i note your comments about the president not being in the chair, but i shall make sure that he hears your comments. his representative on earth, however – mr welle, the secretary-general – is present and is hearing everything you say.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, if any of what i am about to say sounds familiar, it is because we are in a depressingly familiar situation again this year. european taxpayers’ money continues to be wasted and the european parliament is still being asked to grant discharge to accounts which are being condemned by the court of auditors. ecr meps remain of the belief that until all of the european union’s accounts are declared legal and regular, we, as elected representatives of european taxpayers, should not sign off any of the union’s accounts. these accounts represent taxpayers’ money, not european union institutions’, and they have a fundamental right to expect that their hard-earned cash will be spent wisely. that is why we will be voting against discharge this week. when the court of auditors released its annual report last year, the european commission’s official response was that the report showed that the situation was stable. in fact, the 2011 audit showed that the overall error rate had risen for the third year in a row – now up to 3.9%. if the commission thinks that is a stable situation, then we have part of the explanation for the rising error rate. complacency is breeding contempt for the public purse. the eu’s agencies also continue to prove troublesome in their use of taxpayers’ money, with many serious problems with conflicts of interest and poor tendering processes being detected by the auditors. i am pleased that in one case – the european environment agency – the committee on budgetary control agreed with us in the ecr that discharge should be postponed. this is the second year in a row that that agency has had its discharge postponed, and fixing the endemic failures and poor leadership at that agency is now vital. the amount of money that the commission considers to be at risk in the budget has quintupled, from eur 0.4 billion to eur 2 billion last year. this failure of oversight across the budget is the reason why we believe there needs to be a full-time budget control commissioner in the next commission term. parliament has supported our position on this in the last few years and i hope will continue to do so. finally, at a time when every penny is under even greater scrutiny, it is time for this house to finally take a stand on behalf of our taxpayers and refuse discharge.
mr president, once again we are being asked whether or not we approve the management of eu funds by the european commission. the court of auditors has, for the 18th year in a row, refused to clear the eu budget, but this has never led this parliament to actually act. when the auditors talk about significant material errors, breach of public procurement rules, claims for non-existent animals and incorrect activation of entitlements, they are actually describing the way in which european taxpayers’ money is being misappropriated. the level of irregularities has actually gone up to almost 4%, so the question here is: when is the european commission actually going to be held to account for this abominable failure? because whatever blame we want to put on the beneficiaries, it is actually the commission which asks for our taxes to fund the budgets and which should therefore ensure they are properly spent before releasing them. i am not holding my breath. this parliament will vote to approve the eu accounts once again. however, the uk and the netherlands have refused to approve them and i hope many more member states will follow suit.
mr president, i would like to draw members’ attention to one particular item of parliament’s projected expenditure. that item is a eur 52 million allocation to build a ‘house of european history’. the european parliament has already built one museum to celebrate itself – the parliamentarium in brussels. this new museum will cost, apparently, double the amount of the parliamentarium. i suggest that this house of european history be renamed the house of eu vanity. it is superfluous and unnecessary. the bureau of the european parliament approved this project unanimously, and i would note that our group is not represented on that bureau. the project has been approved without any proper debate. the decision has not been subject to adequate scrutiny and it should not be accepted. but there is a wider and more important point here. the allocation of eur 52 million for a ‘house of european history’ epitomises and exemplifies how the eu and its institutions spend our money. the process is characterised by being wasteful, secretive and entirely contemptuous of the taxpayer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
lord dartmouth, you have my assurance, however, that, as the only british vice-president on the bureau, i always have a special regard for british interests, so please do not hesitate to contact me. also, ms andreasen, we three have all at one time or other suffered a political identity crisis – we have something in common. mr olle schmidt, will you accept a blue card question?
blue-card answer. – i am not sure if the question is about my so-called rhetoric. i do not think that is right. i was, on the contrary, expressing myself with exemplary precision and clarity. perhaps it epitomises what is wrong here – and, i am afraid, what is wrong with the honourable member – that he simply does not understand how utterly inappropriate it is to be spending money on yet another museum of european history – a subject which is best studied in universities – at this particular time, when so many of my constituents and, i suspect, of his constituents, are finding it difficult to make ends meet. it is supremely tactless and inappropriate.
mr president, we are discussing a large number of discharges, so we have lots of opportunity to comment, praise and criticise. that is why i am always a little disappointed that we see so many amendments which are not related to the discharge, and that is particularly the case for parliament’s budgets. i hope colleagues will grant discharge on the parliament’s budget and also grant discharge to the commission. i, like others, would want to ensure low error rates. i do not want to give eurosceptics the opportunity to criticise eu investments. of course, in these difficult economic and financial times, it is important that every euro is spent well on promoting jobs and growth. i also wanted to point out, as others have, that there is a difference between fraud and error. the error rate, according to the court of auditors, is 3.9%, and i can tell you that in wales the figure is only 1%. these errors could relate to small things such as filling in forms incorrectly. looking at the fraud rate in eu spend, this is actually quite low, at around 0.2%. having said all that, i am sure we all still want improvements; we want member states to play their part, as they account for 80% of eu spend, and that is why i welcome the rapporteur’s forecasts on member states’ shortcomings and also the rapporteur’s work with the commission to ensure they make further improvements to preventive and corrective measures in the future. finally, let me say that it is important that the member states and the commission make these improvements to the control and management of eu funds. making improvements to the effectiveness of eu funds is a much better policy, as far as i am concerned, than austerity; it is much better to spend our money better promoting jobs and growth rather than to cut investment and expenditure right across the european union.
in writing. – the great margaret thatcher, whom we sadly lost last week, once said, ‘any woman who understands the problems of running a home will be nearer to understanding the problems of running a country.’ like the iron lady, i understand how to run a home and i would like to offer some advice to those running the eu. firstly, we need value for money. we are debating the budgets of eu institutions which have long since failed to serve a useful purpose, such as the committee of the regions or the eesc. secondly, we need to make sure that we are not paying for the same thing twice. the 52 eu agencies are costing eu taxpayers over eur 3 billion and many of them are guilty of duplication. there are two eu agencies dealing with training, two focusing on working conditions, two agencies working on food safety and two agencies dealing with fundamental rights. and finally, we must make sure that the figures add up. the error rate – money misused, misappropriated or inadequately accounted-for – has risen for the third year in a row and now stands at 3.9 %. no good housewife would ever accept a muddled, misspent and monstrous budget like this.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to begin by welcoming the constructive dialogue in the negotiations that we had between the parliament’s committee on budgets, the bureau and the secretary-general during the first conciliation. i believe that we reached a positive outcome, finding some eur 5 million from the budget for 2014 and making a commitment to finding more before september. of course, the fundamental problem we face for the 2014 parliamentary budget is how to deal with the eur 30 million one-off cost of the 2014 election, while still keeping the increase in parliament’s budget to a minimum. despite the secretary-general’s best efforts to find savings, an initial budget proposal was for a 3.5% increase. we have now of course agreed that there will be firstly a eur 5 million reduction in that, which is welcome. however, this will still leave parliament with a significant increase in its budget, while other institutions are able to hold to a real-terms freeze. i believe that would leave parliament and meps extremely exposed to criticism, especially in an election year. i think that we all agree in this house that we want the secretary-general and the bureau to find further savings. the only question is the level of ambition that we want to achieve. my group believes we must be ambitious and ask for the cost of the election to be absorbed within a real-terms freeze in the budget. i hope that you will support that ambitious target tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this house should be the first to lead by example and cut our own costs in line with the austerity measures being imposed around europe. while i recognise that parliament’s administration has made an effort to achieve some reductions, there are still many areas where more could and should be done. the most obvious is the ‘three seat’ cost of parliament. why not cut out this complex arrangement, for which taxpayers pay more than eur 250 million per year? the proposed budget includes another significant increase for european political parties – an expenditure line which will have grown by 50% in the last couple of years. what is the purpose of this increase if there will not be a european constituency in the coming elections and members will be elected from national lists? projects like the european house of history or the parliamentarium also continue to absorb more taxpayers’ money. all these costs will not increase the visibility or the credibility of this institution. it is only the hard work and the integrity of the members which will convince citizens of the importance of this institution. if we continue to ignore this reality we should not be surprised when few turn out to vote in the next european elections.
mr president, having been the rapporteur for the 2013 budget, i know it is a difficult job, and i should like to congratulate the rapporteur and her shadows for presenting this report. i think we should recognise – as mrs andreasen said – that savings have been made in parliament’s budget, and we should also accept that 2014 will be an exceptional year with exceptional costs due to the legal obligations we have to meet. as a parliament, we should make it absolutely clear that, where we have legal obligations, we should meet them. that does not mean, however, that we should not also be making savings elsewhere to compensate for the increases we need to include in the budget; that is why i support the establishment of the joint working group to look at some long-term savings in parliament’s budget. we should also be looking at some short-term measures to make some savings, and i think there are still some possibilities there. such possibilities would include looking at deferring building costs where we see large increases in some budget lines. we see that reserves are still high in some places. there are also possibilities in terms of looking at the number of staff and interpreters who go on delegations and examining the usual end-of-year under-spend, which is always quite substantial. these, i think, are all common-sense proposals which the parliament should be looking at in order to produce some savings. but i would also make the point that, wherever we make those savings, we should not damage the effectiveness of the european parliament or of individual meps. however, there are some things which i think we can do in order to make those savings without damaging that effectiveness.
rapporteur. − mr president, on behalf of my group, i want to state first of all that the content of this report – the amended visa facilitation agreement – offers real and tangible value to ukrainian citizens by ensuring that procedures are introduced for travelling to the eu. there is no disagreement about what the report says. i think it offers particular benefits for representatives of ukrainian civil society, ngos, journalists and young people. i was happy to support this in terms of neighbourhood policy and to promote a report which i genuinely believe, in relation to all the other visa facilitation agreements with countries like russia, serbia, albania and moldova, makes a very positive contribution to neighbourhood policy. none of those amended visa facilitation agreements between the eu and all of those other countries are to be subject to discussion or debate, only this one with ukraine. i called for this debate for a particular reason, which is that we need to voice our concerns about recent legislative developments in the field of human rights which seriously infringe the rights of ukrainian lgbt citizens. last autumn the ukrainian government passed a first-reading agreement, supported by both majority and opposition parties, on bill 8711, condoning legislation to ban ‘homosexual propaganda’. if adopted, the bill would introduce criminal sanctions for the production or distribution of any information that would ‘promote’ homosexuality. such legislation is in contradiction with the fundamental rights and values that the european union is built on. it signifies the opposite of all of our work in the fight against discrimination and homophobia and to uphold citizens’ fundamental rights. we in our group – and, i think, many across this house – believe that, as the european union is a community of values, we should take note of this human rights issue in dealing with a visa facilitation agreement that raises serious human rights concerns. in february i received the welcome news that the ukrainian government intended to adopt new anti-discrimination legislation that would include and specifically list sexual orientation. the ukrainian government has even sought advice from the european commission on this legislation and received amendments on lgbt rights. unfortunately, i have subsequently learned that there is a real risk that the ukrainian government may no longer include sexual orientation in the legislation. it is for this reason that we are having this debate tonight: to send a clear message that such restrictions on lgbt fundamental rights should not be accepted and that the european union, when advancing towards visa liberalisation, should take note of this type of action. with tonight’s debate, my group wants to send a clear message to both the ukrainian government and the commission that there should be no deepening of the eu-ukraine relationship as long as the legislation on ‘homosexual propaganda’ is still on the table in the ukrainian government and parliament. we want to see advances towards progressive, serious improvements as regards lgbt rights, the rule of law and democracy in ukraine before there is any move towards full liberalisation. the eu is a community of values. there is some discussion as to whether visa liberalisation is the correct tool to advance human rights issues. in my view, the reason we are calling for this debate on issues which would normally simply see a cursory vote in this parliament is because we care about these fundamental values. i think this view is shared by many members across this house. therefore, i think all these reports should have a human rights and fundamental rights component. i am very proud that this is something we should always build into our reports and whatever we do in this house. we are a community of values, after all, and for this reason i wanted this debate to focus on this issue.
mr president, this is a very difficult debate for me to take part in, as you can imagine, as an openly gay man. in ukraine, the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are not respected; anti-discrimination measures do not cover lgbt people; and a new report is going through committee that would make it illegal even to discuss in a positive way what it is to be lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender. what is it to be lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender? actually, it is to be the ordinary son or daughter of ordinary men and women, and our lives are made extraordinary by the discrimination and the persecution with which some have to live. so, in an ideal world, i would send this report back to committee – but i do not believe we would get the necessary majority. am i therefore prepared to play around with the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in ukraine, russia and elsewhere? sadly, no: i am not prepared to take that risk. i am prepared to say to ukraine that the liberalisation measures that we offer you now represent the end of the road. there will be no further liberalisation of the facilitation agreement or the issue of visas if you continue to have these laws on your statute books. this is your last opportunity to reform (mr president, please allow me this) – your last opportunity, because when parliament next has an opportunity to revise this, we will take the requisite measures and we will not flinch.
rapporteur. − mr president, the commissioner, in his introductory remarks, talked about this facilitation agreement being important for the population of ukraine. he also talked about homophobia being something that the commission did not want. that is fine, but let me restate, so that there is no confusion as to where i stand as rapporteur and where i stand for my group. mr cashman and others, i think, made speeches which i want to encapsulate in this statement so that there is no confusion. the s&d group, my group, wants to send a clear message to the ukrainian government, to the parliament in ukraine, and to you, commissioner, that there should be no deepening of the ukrainian-eu relationship for as long as the anti-propaganda laws are still on the table in the ukrainian government and in the parliament. we want to see advancements towards progressive, serious improvements in lgbt rights and on the rule of law and democracy in the ukraine before any more movements towards full liberalisation are made. this is because we believe in our group – and obviously across this house – that this is part of the visa dialogue. we have to see these improvements. if we are a community of values, then this must be part of that dialogue. it is only on this basis that we would not support such a referral back and we would support my report. for those colleagues who do not believe that, as a community of values, we cannot bring human rights into this dialogue – this is fundamentally wrong. i called for this debate to focus on this issue because, unlike all other visa liberalisations, this visa liberalisation should be a test case for focusing on human rights. i say to the commission and to anyone else who is looking at this debate: human rights must be part of that visa dialogue for the future. we put the ukrainian government on notice that we will be watching to ensure that we remain a community of values in our neighbourhood policy.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, 25 years ago mrs thatcher recognised the truth behind the european project. she saw that it was about taking away democracy from nation states and handing that power to largely unaccountable people. knowing as she did that the euro would not work, she saw that this was a very dangerous design. we in ukip take that same view, and i have tried over the years in this parliament to predict what the next moves would be as the euro disaster unfolded. but, even in my most pessimistic speeches, i would never have imagined, mr rehn, that you and those in the troika would resort to the level of common criminals and steal money from people’s bank accounts in order to keep propped up this total failure that is the euro. you even tried to take money away from the small investors, in direct breach of the promise you made back in 2008. the precedent has been set, and if we look at countries like spain, where business bankruptcies are up 45 % year on year, we can see what your plan is to deal with the other bail-outs as they come. i must say, the message this sends out to investors is very loud and clear: get your money out of the eurozone before they come for you. what you have done in cyprus has actually sounded the death knell of the euro. nobody in the international community will have confidence in leaving their money there. and how ironic to see the russian prime minister, dmitry medvedev, say of your actions: ‘i can only compare it to some of the decisions taken by soviet authorities.’ and then we have a new german proposal that says that actually what we ought to do is confiscate some of the value of people’s properties in the southern mediterranean eurozone states. this european union is the new communism: it is power without limits. it is creating a tide of human misery, and the sooner it is swept away the better. and what of this place? what of the parliament? this parliament has the ability to hold the commission to account. i have put down a motion of censure debate on the table. i wonder whether any of you have the courage to recognise it and to support it? i very much doubt that. i am minded that there is a new mrs thatcher in europe, and he is called frits bolkestein. he has said of this parliament – remember, he is a former commissioner – that it is not representative of dutch or european citizens any more, and is ‘living out a federal fantasy which is no longer sustainable’. how right he is!
madam president, ‘act in haste, repent at leisure’ applies to those eurogroup-cum-troika meetings where what seems to be decided is that there will be a decision, even if it is a bad one. that is the terrible template. even since the abortive first cyprus package, when europe’s ‘best’ stood ready to allow a raid on insured deposits, there have been many suggestions on how to levy more fairly on deposits, or even to apply a wealth tax, which has precedents for some burden-sharing in difficult times as long as it is not discriminatingly targeted at deposits. retrospective interest taxes, putting some elements of deposits in escrow as an advance interest tax, and other such schemes could have raised funds from deposits without devastation, but you gave no time. many of europe’s people now stand aghast at the final solution, where uninsured depositors have been treated differently, where businesses close and jobs are lost to protect taxpayers from sharing in losses of state-funded depositors. this does not make economic sense for future recovery, to say nothing of the loss of moral compass. anyway, something will have to be done. finally, cyprus teaches us that we need many clearer rules on bank resolution and hierarchy. but surely alarm bells should ring when liquidity operations for an individual institution become of the same order of magnitude as gdp. that is a recipe for moral hazard or behaviour more befitting loan sharks. defence is in transparency. people – investors – need warning.
mr president, i have raised this point a number of times previously in this parliament. i realise we have an enormous amount to vote on, but you are conducting the vote ‘for, against, abstain’, ‘for, against, abstain’ at such a pace, it is impossible to get your hand up in the right place. now listen. either we vote seriously or we abandon the pretence that we are actually voting at all.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted to grant discharge to the commission. in passing i note that 80% of funding is administered at member state level and that the european court of auditors found that, in the vast majority of errors found in regional policy transactions, sufficient information was available for member states to detect these errors themselves and therefore highlights the fact that measures such as improving administrative capacity, streamlining procurement and eligibility rules and a focus on simplification and a risk-based approach should be implemented at member state level.
in writing. − eighty per cent of eu money is administered by member states, and i welcome this report’s focus on problems identified at national level. i voted in favour of discharging the commission’s expenditure for 2011. the error rate is high at 3.9 %, but the commission has committed to corrective measures to reduce this. ‘error’ should not be confused with ‘fraud’, which is subject to strict legal and recovery measures. error can mean something as simple as incorrectly filling in a form.
in writing. − i voted for the report as it presents a valid explanation of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, in particular the commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting discharge to the commission’s expenditure for 2011. while the error rate for eu funds remains quite high, at 3.9 %, the commission is focused on implementing preventative and corrective measures that aim to reduce the error rates in payments. it must also be noted that error, which includes mistakes such as filling in a form incorrectly, is not the same as fraud, which is subject to strict legal and recovery measures. eighty per cent of eu spending is administered at member state level, therefore i welcome the report’s focus on the shortcomings identified at national level. at this time of cuts to national and regional budgets, increased efforts must be made to focus on the effective spending of eu funding through implementing better control and management at eu and member state level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i welcome this special report no 13/2011 of the court of auditors entitled ‘does the control of customs procedure 42 prevent and detect vat evasion?’ which makes many useful observations and suggestions.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i am fed up with seeing british citizens’ money being wasted on things such as europarl tv, the house of history and, most importantly, the strasbourg seat – a building used once a month at the cost of the taxpayer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. i welcome the fact that meps once again called on member states to tackle the one-seat problem. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report but against the amendment calling for a fair-trade shop in parliament. not because i am against this proposal but because it clearly did not belong in a discharge resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of all the amendments in this report, which called for transparent use of the meps’ general expenditure allowance. i want to see the rest of the european parliament follow the lead of myself and my british labour colleagues in having their general expenditure allowance independently verified by an auditor. i supported the amendment calling on the member states to revise the issue of the parliament’s second seat. the trip to strasbourg wastes millions of euros every year. especially now, when national governments are tightening their belts, having only one seat for the european parliament would bring significant savings and set a better example on environmental issues.
in writing. − i voted for the report as it focuses specifically on 2011 and analyses all areas of parliament’s expenditure in great detail.
in writing. − the european parliament takes the scrutiny of its own budget implementation very seriously. it is especially important to ensure the effectiveness of european parliament spending at a time when national budgets are being reduced throughout the eu. by voting in favour of this report, meps granted discharge to parliament’s expenditure for 2011. this report focuses on all areas of expenditure and includes a number of important issues for british labour meps. i voted in favour of all amendments in this report that called for transparent use of the meps’ general expenditure allowance; my british labour colleagues and i want to see the rest of the european parliament follow our lead in having their general expenditure allowance independently verified by an auditor. i am pleased that the amendment calling for the member states to revise the issue of the european parliament’s seats was adopted by plenary. having only one seat for the european parliament would bring significant savings and set a better example on environmental issues.
in writing. − the edf is not only too often used as a pr operation by the eu, but its money is most inefficiently spent, quite often subsidising fraud, corruption and the grey sphere on the economy. the fund is also completely lacking in transparency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal, which recognises that one of the biggest challenges developing countries are facing is the massive outflows of illicit capital; recognises that off-shore centres and tax havens facilitate an annual illicit capital flight of usd 1 trillion; and observes that these illicit monetary outflows are roughly ten times the amount of aid money going into developing countries for poverty alleviation and economic development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it exposes the lack of transparency and effectiveness associated with the council’s and the commission’s spending. i fully back the report’s call for the council to improve its performance in this area without delay.
in writing. − i voted to postpone the discharge of the council’s accounts because the council has failed to answer questions from parliament on the use of the budget. i trust that the presidency will resolve this dispute in the near future. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted not to give discharge to the council. i regret that the council continues to refuse to answer parliament’s questions and consider that effective supervision of the union’s budget implementation requires that the council be willing to have an open and formal dialogue with parliament’s committee on budgetary control.
in writing. − i voted against this report as this institution is wholly inefficient and should therefore have no say regarding the british law and justice system. our system should be governed entirely by the british courts and ruled by common law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which supports the initiative taken by the court of justice to reform its statute and rules of procedure in view of the challenges it faces in connection with the increased number of cases. the report notes that various changes agreed by the legislators have already entered into force and are being implemented, and hopes that further, urgent structural measures allowing in particular for the appointment of additional judges at the general court will be adopted in 2013.
in writing. − i voted against this report, not because i do not believe in the need for full transparency and accountability when it comes to spending taxpayers’ money but because the conclusions put forward by the court of auditors, which appear to try and introduce real accountability and cut unnecessary spending, are little more than an attempt to make this place seem more reasonable – unfortunately, this is simply impossible. i believe that those monies should be given back to the british taxpayers and the sooner the uk leaves the eu, the better.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report but note that it, ‘finds the gender balance at the level of directors and heads of units still very unbalanced (72 % male and 28 % female)’ and that it ‘notes with satisfaction that the proportion of women at ad level is increasing; points out, however, the importance of geographical balance at all levels of staff; requests that the court of auditors also provide a breakdown by nationality’.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i am against the very existence of this place which has no legislative right and is simply creating an illusion of democracy in the decision-making process through the involvement of regions and local authorities in the eu. money spent on getting together businesses, ngos and trade unionists, under the auspices of the ‘eu’ should be left to democratic member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which ‘congratulates the eesc for the reform of the financial reimbursement rules relating to its members, including reimbursement of transport tickets on the basis of real cost only, and expects the council to approve it without delay; recalls that the system should be fully operational by the beginning of the next eesc term’.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i am against the very existence of this place which has no legislative right and is simply creating an illusion of democracy in the decision-making process through the involvement of regions and local authorities in the eu. spending eur 84 million per year on a committee of the regions will not make this place more democratic – in fact, it will create another army of eurocrats.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which ‘congratulates the committee for the consistent quality of the annual activity report and for providing a comprehensive annual impact report that is an important tool for the assessment of its work; notes with satisfaction that an exhaustive table of all human resources at the committee’s disposal was provided in the annual activity report; invites the committee to include in the table the break-down of the participation in professional training’.
in writing. − the existence of an ombudsman’s office which will cost the taxpayer nearly eur 10 million will not make this place more citizen-friendly or democratic, so i voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘notes with satisfaction that in its 2011 annual report, the court of auditors observed that no significant weaknesses had been identified in respect to the audited topics related to the human resources and the procurement for the european ombudsman’.
in writing. − we are against this agency as we believe that the competency to protect data should be given back to the uk and that the monies involved in running this agency should go back to the british citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report and its call for the supervisor to draft the annual budget so that it corresponds better to the supervisor’s needs and calls on the supervisor to improve the implementation of its annual budget.
in writing. − i voted against this, as i see it as yet another example of fake eu pr. the foreign affairs the service handles should be given back to the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy discharge in respect of the implementation of the european external action service’s budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i voted against this report as, as highlighted by the court of auditors, the court considers that several of these agencies are plagued by issues including excessively high carryovers, lack of transparency and conflicts of interest right up to management board level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report. it suggests that the financial rules applicable to the agencies should be simplified, which would allow the agencies’ administrative staff costs to be reduced. it calls on the commission to draw up proposals to that effect and to encourage the agencies to use the simplification option as regards recruitment procedures where the standard procedure is designed for a larger scale organisation and presents an excessive burden for the agencies.
in writing. − i voted against the report as this agency has been identified as demonstrating a lack of transparency with regard to its recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − mr president, yet again this parliament is being presented with accounts which are, in the words of the court of auditors, ‘materially effected by error’, and we are being asked to discharge them. this is unacceptable, so i have voted against granting discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators until all the irregularities are corrected and a positive statement of assurance is issued by the court of auditors. every time we discharge accounts which are ‘materially affected by error’, we show that we are not serious about reducing those errors. sometimes the errors are innocent mistakes, sometimes they are wasteful spending and sometimes they are fraudulent. they are all bad for the taxpayer. the conservative party wants to reform this system, protect the taxpayer and change the image of spending by the eu for the better.
in writing. − i voted for this report which notes with concern the court of auditors’ observation that the high level of appropriations not used and of carryovers, as well as the low level of payments, indicate shortcomings in budget planning and implementation and are at odds with the budgetary principle of annuality. however, i accept the agency’s explanation that during its first operational year, it had to recruit most of its staff, which resulted in the delayed commencement of opened positions, thus having a significant impact on the agency’s budget implementation rate, as well as estimations of procurement needs, which led to a concentration of procurement procedures towards the end of the year. the report understands that this, in turn, resulted in a high level of carry-forwards in order to honour the signed legal and budgetary commitments.
in writing. − i voted against the report as this agency has been identified as demonstrating a lack of transparency with regard to its recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − mr president, yet again this parliament is being presented with accounts which are, in the words of the court of auditors, ‘materially effected by error’, and we are being asked to discharge them. this is unacceptable, so i have voted against granting discharge to the body of european regulators for electronic communications until all the irregularities are corrected and a positive statement of assurance is issued by the court of auditors. every time we discharge accounts which are ‘materially affected by error’, we show that we are not serious about reducing those errors. sometimes the errors are innocent mistakes, sometimes they are wasteful spending and sometimes they are fraudulent. they are all bad for the taxpayer. the conservative party wants to reform this system, protect the taxpayer and change the image of spending by the eu for the better.
in writing. − i voted for this report which grants the administrative manager of the body of european regulators for electronic communications discharge in respect of the implementation of the body’s budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − mr president, yet again this parliament is being presented with accounts which are, in the words of the court of auditors, ‘materially affected by error’, and we are being asked to discharge them. this is unacceptable, so i have voted against granting discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union until all the irregularities are corrected and a positive statement of assurance is issued by the court of auditors. every time we discharge accounts which are ‘materially affected by error’ we show that we are not serious about reducing those errors. sometimes the errors are innocent mistakes, sometimes they are wasteful spending and sometimes they are fraudulent. they are all bad for the taxpayer. the conservative party wants to reform this system, protect the taxpayer and change the image of spending by the eu for the better.
in writing. − i voted for this report and note that the centre’s final budget for 2011 was eur 51 299 000, compared to eur 55 928 077 in 2010, which represents a decrease of 8.27 %. i hope it has continued to make savings.
in writing. − i voted against the report as irregularities have been identified with regard to the way in which this agency has handled its carryovers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘observes that the centre receives annual contributions from two third countries which benefit from its work; notes that norway and iceland’s contribution to the centre’s budget for the financial year 2011 amounted to eur 407 066.59; recalls that those funds are managed as assigned revenue, requiring them to be allocated to specific projects; welcomes the fact that in 2011, the target was reached and 100 % of the planned budget was executed; calls on the centre to keep the discharge authority informed of the use of those contributions’.
in writing. − i voted against the report as irregularities have been identified with regard to the way in which this agency has handled its carryovers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − mr president, yet again this parliament is being presented with accounts which are, in the words of the court of auditors, ‘materially affected by error’ and we are being asked to discharge them. this is unacceptable, so i have voted against granting discharge to the european police college until all the irregularities are corrected and a positive statement of assurance is issued by the court of auditors. every time we discharge accounts which are ‘materially affected by error’, we show that we are not serious about reducing those errors. sometimes the errors are innocent mistakes, sometimes they are wasteful spending and sometimes they are fraudulent. they are all bad for the taxpayer. the conservative party wants to reform this system, protect the taxpayer and change the image of spending by the eu for the better.
in writing. − i voted for this report which commends the college’s efforts to improve its performance without a budget increase, and the results it has achieved. the report congratulates it, moreover, on responding comprehensively to parliament’s requirements and to the current budgetary challenges by radically reducing its governing costs.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as this agency has been identified as the source of several concerns including high administrative costs and poor management of conflict of interest situations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘notes with concern that at the end of 2011, the agency held bank balances of eur 55 million (2010: eur 49 million) in one bank only; notes the agency’s intention to open bank accounts in at least two banks, as recommended by the court of auditors; notes, to this purpose, its plan to launch a negotiated tender at the beginning of 2013; calls on the agency to inform the discharge authority on the completion of the actions taken to reduce its financial risk’.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as its findings will do little to convince the city of london, or indeed the rest of great britain, that remaining in the eu is a good idea.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the authority, a newly created agency which is located in london, was established by regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 and officially started its operations on 1 january 2011 as an independent authority.
in writing. − i voted against this place, the european centre for disease prevention and control, as it demonstrates a complete lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘notes with concern the court of auditors' remarks’, and in particular that, ‘the centre concluded a framework contract (fwc) in 2009 for a maximum amount of eur 9 million, allowing it to sign specific contracts with selected suppliers up to this amount. [..] subsequent amendments increased these contracts’ values to eur 14.9 million. by the end of 2011 payments made totalled eur 12.2 million, of which eur 3.2 million in 2011. commitments and payments above the eur 9 million ceiling set in the framework contract are irregular’.
in writing. − i voted against this report as we believe that the eu should not have control over the chemical industry. therefore the european chemicals agency should cease to exist and the eu should get back to being the simple trade treaty it was when we originally joined.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i note from this report that the european chemicals agency was effectively fully financed through fee income and did not receive any union subsidy.
mr president, i voted against the granting of discharge for all the european agencies. i accept that many of these agencies do good work. indeed, they do vital work on behalf of both the commission and parliament. in fact, much of our work would not be possible without the agencies’ participation. but that does not mean that they should be given a free ride or a clean sheet. i will use the eea as an example. there are many questions that remain unanswered. there is a lack of consistency in the control measures that are in place. in the case of the eea, there have been shortcomings in recruitment procedures, higher-than-usual travel costs and questions left open around conflicts of interest. i believe many improvements could be made, including exploring options for amalgamations and joint working, which would lead to cost savings for all european taxpayers. until we have a full review of agencies, their activities and more consistency, i will continue to vote against discharge.
in writing. − environment should be controlled by domestic law so that british citizens’/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because the body has shown itself to be using its budget to within the eu guideline and has accounted for all expenditure. it is a big improvement on last year when the discharge of the agency was much debated. the eea has proved that it has changed. it is of great importance that these processes are properly audited. it is important to my constituents in wales, and for all citizens across the eu, that money is spent in a transparent fashion and in the best way possible.
in writing. − mr president, yet again this parliament is being presented with accounts which are, in the words of the court of auditors, ‘materially affected by error’, and we are being asked to discharge them. this is unacceptable, so i have voted to postpone discharge for the european environment agency until all the irregularities are corrected and a positive statement of assurance is issued by the court of auditors. every time we discharge accounts which are ‘materially affected by error’ we show that we are not serious about reducing those errors. sometimes the errors are innocent mistakes, sometimes they are wasteful spending and sometimes they are fraudulent. they are all bad for the taxpayer. the conservative party wants to reform this system, protect the taxpayer and change the image of spending by the eu for the better.
in writing. − i voted to grant discharge to the european environment agency, noting that the agency had initiated the process to implement the court of auditors’ recommendations.
in writing. − we voted against this report as we believe that the eu should not have control over fisheries, therefore the european fisheries control agency should cease to exist and the eu should get back to being the simple trade treaty it was when we originally joined. i oppose the cfp as well.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘acknowledges from the court of auditors that in the course of the appointment procedure of the executive director, a member of the administrative board contravened the regulations governing appointments to key posts by announcing the candidate the commission intended to vote for; recognises that the actions of members of the administrative board are not under the control of the agency and that the executive director is, therefore, not responsible for the proceedings’.
in writing. − food safety should be controlled by domestic law so that british citizens’/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted to postpone the granting of discharge because although there have been some improvements in terms of avoiding conflicts of interest, postponement until october will give us a clearer picture on how effective the new policies are. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i welcome this report which, ‘strongly suggests that in order to prevent the authority's staff from moving directly from their position to work in a similar post in industry or related lobby-agency, or vice versa, an adequate cooling-off period should be established and respected for the specific areas of work, in order to avoid conflicts of interest’.
in writing. − i voted against this place (the european institute for gender equality) as it demonstrates a complete lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i supported this report which, ‘welcomes the unique initiative, in coordination with the other representations of union institutions in vilnius (the commission's representation and the european parliament's information office), to identify and select common premises; notes that the newly established "eu house" proved necessary and will benefit synergies, increase the union's visibility, cost saving and sharing’.
in writing. − insurance and pensions should be controlled by domestic law so that british citizens‘/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which takes note from the budget report that the initial union contribution to the authority’s budget for 2011 was eur 4 267 000 and notes that that was the first year of the authority’s activities.
in writing. − innovation and technology issues should be controlled by domestic law so that british citizens’/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘takes note from the court of auditors that grant agreements resulting in payments in 2011 were systematically signed by the commission (dg eac) and the institute after most of the activities had already been implemented; notes, furthermore, that between september and december 2011, the institute made final payments amounting to eur 4 200 000 related to three grant agreements that were signed well after the start of activities; calls on the institute to inform the discharge authority of the actions it will take to address this deficiency as this represents an issue in terms of good financial management’.
in writing. − i voted against this report as we believe that the eu should not have control over the medicines and drugs market. therefore european medicines agency should cease to exist and the eu should get back to being the simple trade treaty it was when we originally joined.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report and note with satisfaction that a special section describing the actions taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest is to be introduced in each of the agency’s aars, starting with the 2012 aar.
in writing. − i voted against this report as we believe that the eu should not have control over drugs and drug addiction. therefore the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction should cease to exist and the eu should get back to being the simple trade treaty it was when we originally joined.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report and share the author’s concerns that the court of auditors identified 51 cases, with a total value of eur 90 053, in which appropriations carried over to 2012 were not related to existing legal commitments and should have been de-committed and paid back to the commission by the end of 2011. the report notes that the centre initiated the process too late and as a consequence, due to restrictions imposed by the it system, the funds will be blocked for one year and will only be de-committed and paid back at the end of 2012. it calls on the centre to improve its planning in order to avoid such situations in the future.
in writing. − maritime safety should be controlled by international treaties such as the montego bay convention and domestic law, so that british citizens’/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘notes from the court of auditors' report that there was room to improve the transparency of recruitment procedures, in particular, the thresholds which candidates had to meet in order to be invited to interview, the questions for written tests and interviews and the corresponding weightings for the evaluation of candidates were not set before the applications were examined; acknowledges that the agency has updated its recruitment procedures accordingly’.
in writing. − it issues and information security should be controlled by domestic law so that british citizens’/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report in which concern is expressed that the work of the agency, the ‘pace-setter’ for information security in europe which is currently based in custom-built premises in crete, would be fragmented through a division of its headquarters between athens and heraklion, which would significantly increase the agency’s operational costs and contradict the principle of sound financial management by adding financial and administrative burdens, in a period when economies are required. the report points out that the construction of the agency’s brand new high-tech building in heraklion, tailor-made to its operational needs, was completed in 2011 at a cost of eur 6 000 000, in line with the agency’s technical specifications. further the report believes that a cost-benefit analysis of the division of the agency’s headquarters and of the resulting parallel functioning in two cities should be undertaken by the competent institutions, such as the court of auditors or the commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the estimates aim at achieving a budget increase close to the inflation rate. there were, however, a number of amendments that i voted in favour of that were rejected, such as reducing costs for the european house of history. nevertheless it was positive that once more, meps voted for a single seat. all eu budgets must be spent carefully, and parliament’s budget is no different, and i must ensure that i do my utmost to ensure this on behalf of my constituents in wales.
in writing. − i voted against this report. a majority of this house does not seem to realise that europe is in the midst of an economic crisis and that parliament's own expenditure must reflect that reality. perhaps nowhere is this evidenced better than in the continued expense of the house of european history. at a time when public spending is being slashed across the continent, it is ludicrous that this frivolity is allowed to continue.
in writing. − i believe the house of history project should be postponed, if not abandoned.
in writing. − i voted against this report as the proposed 3.29% increase in parliament’s budget for 2014 is too high and not acceptable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report that aims to establish a financial assistance mechanism for member states that do not use the euro. by voting yes, we signalled to the council that we need a more balanced framework, especially on the protection of social rights, transparency and responsibility, in order to provide financial assistance to member states outside of the euro area that are confronted with serious difficulties. this is important to wales as we are part of a non-euro area member state and we need to ensure that if we ever do come into financial difficulties, that we will be supported. it is equally important that non-euro area countries are surveyed in order to ensure that they are not spending above their means.
in writing. − i welcome this report. the underlying balance of payment proposal is in essence a welcome initiative to streamline procedures in financial assistance between the euro area and the non-euro area. some modifications and additions are however needed, and these are outlined in this interim report.
in writing. − because the commission has committed to include the ep’s proposals relating to strengthening parliamentary oversight, raising the budget of the new facility through transfers from the efsm, ensuring the new instrument is in line with the revised stability and growth pact and proposals surrounding bank recapitalisation for non-euro area member states, i supported the final report.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it emphasises the need to strengthen parliament’s oversight role, given that the eu budget is the ultimate collateral for the new instrument.
in writing. − i fully support this interim report, which details the european parliament’s position on the content of the commission’s upcoming proposal for a council regulation on streamlining procedures in financial assistance between the eurozone and non-euro countries. suggested measures include strengthening parliament’s role as an overseer – particularly as the eu budget is the ultimate collateral for the new instrument – and ensuring that the new facility is in line with the updated stability and growth pact. it is important for closer unity to be established between such financial structures, so that non-eurozone member states facing fiscal uncertainty have access to similar assistance to those whose currency is the euro.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i felt that it did not go far enough. the ecb is responsible for defining and implementing the monetary policy for the euro area, thus it is of utmost importance that the ecb is transparent and that its function is clear. wales is not part of the euro area but it is imperative that the euro is managed correctly, as poor management of the currency has consequences for all eu members.
in writing. − ‘an exceptional year’ – that was how mario draghi, the current president of the european central bank (ecb), described 2011 in the bank’s annual report. it is true that the bank had to contend with a highly unusual situation in which it was compelled to change course and its ways of proceeding within the space of a year; it is equally the case that 2011 was not just another year. whether or not it was exceptional remains to be seen. if a new cycle has begun, then the roots can be traced back to 2010: they lie partly in the worsening crisis and partly in the increasingly far-reaching ecb intervention within the union area, not least in the form of the adjustment plans that it has helped to impose on some countries in deficit. the ecb’s action has undoubtedly been dictated by the context of economic and social crisis, and the 2011 annual report – without question – clearly reflects those changes.
in writing. − my constituency of london has a heavy focus on financial services, and as our financial institutions interact extensively with the eurozone, a well-balanced approach to the management of the ecb will benefit all. i believe these yearly assessments of the ecb are extremely important.
in writing. − i abstained in this vote as, although i support ftt at eu level, i do not support it as a mechanism to fund the eu budget with.
in writing. − i voted against this place (era) as it demonstrates a complete lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘takes note that the agency recognises that the use of two locations leads to inefficiencies and additional costs; notes, moreover, that all efforts are made by the agency to minimise the negative impact of the decision on the agency’s seat’.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it is granting a discharge to the agency that develops and extends the eu’s power over the city of london. the esma demonstrates a complete lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i support the call, in this report, to the commission to explore all the options for a new long-term sustainable financing of the authority that safeguards its independence in the context of the next review of the agencies’ work and financing arrangements by the commission, which will be presented by 2 january 2014 at the latest.
in writing. − i voted against this report as we believe that the eu should not have control over training issues. therefore the european training foundation should cease to exist and the eu should get back to being the simple trade treaty it was when we originally joined.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘acknowledges from the court of auditors that the situation regarding the foundation’s premises is unsatisfactory and puts its activities at risk of disruption; calls on the foundation to persevere in its efforts to reach a satisfactory solution and to inform the discharge authority of the actions taken to address this deficiency; notes that the foundation is now in the process of signing the new service contract with the region, which is planned - following the agreement with the parties - for the end of february 2013’.
in writing. − safety and health at work should be controlled by domestic law so that british citizens’/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which notes with concern that whereas the agency’s financial regulation and the corresponding implementing rules provide for a physical inventory at least once every three years, at the time of the court of auditors’ audit, the latest physical inventory was carried out in 2006.
in writing. − i voted against this place, the esa, as it demonstrates a complete lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which notes that in 2011, the agency did not receive any subsidy to cover its operations and that the commission bore all expenses incurred by the agency for the implementation of its 2011 budget. the report notes that this situation has continued since the creation of the agency in 2008 and further notes that in the absence of an autonomous budget, the agency was integrated de facto into the commission in 2011 and that this situation was at odds with its statutes.
in writing. − the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions demonstrates a complete lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which is ‘concerned that the court of auditors reported that the foundation carried over 47 % of title iii appropriations (operational expenditure), amounting to eur 3 400 000, of which eur 1 600 000 were unplanned (22 % of title iii); expresses concern that this situation indicates delays in the implementation of the foundation’s activities which are financed by title iii and is at odds with the budgetary principle of annuality’.
in writing. − i voted against this report as this institution is wholly inefficient and should therefore have no say regarding the british law and justice system. our system should be governed entirely by the british courts and ruled by common law. therefore in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘regrets that eurojust has not provided the discharge authority with a report presenting the measures adopted and implemented following the discharge authority's recommendations of 2010, as required by article 96(2) of the framework financial regulation; urges eurojust to send the report as soon as possible in order to enable the discharge authority to evaluate whether progress was made’.
mr president, this relates to the hübner report. i voted against this report because of the particular problems it poses for the uk, which was the only one of the 27 member states which had no legal obligation to abandon its currency – sterling – in favour of the euro at any time in the future. the report suggests transferring an outstanding eur 10 billion from the discontinued efsm to the balance of payments facility. the efsm is described in the report as if it were real, tangible money, and this is not the case. the efsm is a notional amount based on borrowing secured against the eu budget, to be drawn upon as and when necessary. it is therefore inaccurate and misleading to say that there is eur 10 billion sitting idle. notwithstanding this, i believe that money committed by member states that has not yet been used for bail-out funds should be returned to the member states. i understand that there may be a case for retaining funds in respect of countries signed up to join the euro at some time in the future, but this is not the case for the uk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the current system does not provide any rules regarding the treatment of vouchers. some member states’ actions have resulted in mismatches in taxation – potentially generating double or non-taxation. uncertainty about the correct tax procedures for voucher transactions can be problematic for cross-border and chain transactions. a harmonised and clarified set of rules regarding vat treatment of vouchers in the eu goes towards correcting these problems. in wales people use a lot of vouchers, either as individuals or as part of a business or company; thus it is important that rules on vat on vouchers are clear and fair so that everyone is getting a just deal.
in writing. − this proposal goes some way to closing loopholes which allow tax avoidance. therefore, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the objective of the proposal is to clarify and harmonise eu rules on the vat treatment of vouchers. this will have a positive effect on businesses by eliminating situations of double taxation and uncertainty about tax compliance obligations. it will also help to close loopholes which facilitate tax avoidance by certain companies exploiting the mismatches between member states. the new rules also fit well in the broader strategy of the digital agenda europe, especially its objective to create a digital single market.
in writing. − i supported this report because vat voucher rules, such as mobile phone vouchers, have been applied unevenly across the eu. this report aims to modernise the eu-wide rules and parliament has called for a specific definition of the term ‘voucher’.
in writing. − police and police cooperation should be controlled by domestic law so that british citizens’/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary and cooperation in criminal matters will work more smoothly with bilateral agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘believes that common elements between the office and the european police college should be explored further; reiterates its call on the commission to prepare a comprehensive impact assessment regarding a potential merger of those two agencies setting out the cost and benefits, considering the complementarities between the office and the european police college and the potential synergies, and to evaluate whether the merger could lead to economies of scale and optimisation of the performance in cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime’.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i am against the very existence of this place. it is simply creating an illusion of democracy and rule of law. spending millions of euro on this project will not make the eu more democratic – in fact, it will create another army of eurocrats.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i take note that the court of auditors made no critical remarks about the accounts of the european agency for fundamental rights.
in writing. − border control should be controlled by domestic law so that british citizens’/taxpayers’ money can be spent on issues in relation to this area in their own country. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary. i am really happy that my country is not a part of this agency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘deplores that within the total amount carried over, the agency carried over global commitments of eur 5.1 million; observes that the agency's financial regulation does not provide a clear basis for such a carryover; is aware that funding received at the end of the financial year may result in higher carryovers’.
in writing. − i voted against the discharge of the european gnss agency, as i believe that this place demonstrates a complete lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which welcomes the court of auditors’ observation that the reason for its qualified opinion on the reliability of the agency’s 2010 accounts, incorrect accounting treatment of tangible fixed assets related to the galileo satellite programme, had been resolved. the report notes that the court of auditors had received confirmation that those assets are now under the control of the commission and are not to be capitalised in the agency’s accounts. it notes that the court of auditors therefore considers that there is no longer need for a qualification on such grounds.
in writing. − i voted against the discharge of the artemis joint undertaking’s budget as this place demonstrates a complete lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − this report condemns the fact that greece is using union structural funds to cover its national contributions to the greek beneficiaries of the artemis projects instead of providing national funding, and that the joint undertaking acknowledged the continuation of greek participation in artemis projects but provides no funding to the greek beneficiaries, as an expenditure co-financed by union structural funds shall not receive assistance from another union financial instrument in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006. the report requests that the commission informs the discharge authority of the legality of this situation as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted against the discharge of the clean sky joint undertaking budget as this place demonstrates a complete lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘regrets the fact that the joint undertaking, in contravention of its financial rules, carried over eur 68 000 000 of payment appropriations to 2012, without a decision by the governing board’.
in writing. − i voted against the eniac joint undertaking as it demonstrates a lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘considers that cost-benefit analysis of a merger with artemis should be undertaken and that parliament should be notified about the results of this assessment. this report should highlight the possible advantages and disadvantages of such a merger’.
in writing. − i voted against the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking as it demonstrates a lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which welcomes the fact that the court of auditors states that in its annual accounts of 2011 the joint undertaking fairly presented, in all material respects, its financial position as of 31 december 2011 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
in writing. − i voted against the initiative on innovative medicines joint undertaking as it demonstrates a lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘is concerned that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking received a qualified opinion from the court of auditors on the legality and the regularity of the transactions underlying those accounts on the grounds that the error rate resulting from the ex-post audits was 6.84 %; takes note that the joint undertaking completed ex-post audits covering eur 2.2 million (18.8 % of the accepted joint undertaking's contribution for the first call validated by the joint undertaking by june 2011); regrets that based on joint undertaking first audits applying its own methodology the detected error rate was 4.58 % while the residual error rate was 3.72 %; expects that the court and the joint undertaking agree on an audit methodology that for the same ex-post audits delivers the same results, reiterates that the joint undertaking should reinforce without delay the quality of its ex-ante controls in particular for the grant management, requests that the discharge authority is informed of the results of the following ex-post audit processes conducted by the joint undertaking’.
in writing. − i voted against the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy as it demonstrates a lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted against the discharge of the iter project. the eu is spending eur 13 billion on the project and we are not even sure if it is going to work, or if it is safe. these eur 13 billion could be better spent on other eu projects, especially in a time of economic crisis when every euro is precious. research that i have published shows that each person in wales receives gbp 40 more from the eu than we put in. there is currently much debate about cutting the mff; if we put a stop to iter, much of our budget problems would be solved.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘acknowledges that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are, in all material respects, legal and regular’.
in writing. − i voted against the sesar joint undertaking as it demonstrates a lack of transparency and was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents. in this time of austerity, the existence of this agency is neither useful nor necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this discharge because i am satisfied with the budget performance and monitoring. it is important to my constituents in wales that public money is spent effectively.
in writing. − i voted for this report which, ‘notes that the joint undertaking is designed as a public-private partnership and that public and private interests are intertwined; recalls that the founding members are the union, represented by the commission, and eurocontrol, represented by its agency, together with 15 public and private enterprises from the air navigation industry; recommends the absolute need, under this circumstances, to ensure that potential conflicts of interest should not be dismissed but addressed properly’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance is an important instrument for citizens. consultations with member states have meant that it is now necessary to make changes to certain annexes to the convention. the report recommended speedy approval of the changes so the convention can enter into force as soon as possible. child support is an important issue for my constituents in wales as well as for citizens across europe.
in writing. − the hague convention is an important instrument that ensures that child support obligations are enforced across borders. i supported this report, which enables the convention to come into force in full at the earliest opportunity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance of 23 november 2007 is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides for a mechanism under which child support obligations can be applied for and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance is an extremely important agreement, affecting many of my constituents in london. it is important that the proposed changes be approved so that the convention can take effect across the eu as quickly as possible – hence it had my support.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, certainly not in strasbourg for meps every month. anyway, the ecr group has always supported eu enlargement and the benefits that it can bring to former communist countries, both in eastern europe and in the western balkans. it has now taken croatia nine years of negotiations to follow its neighbour slovenia into the european union family. this is a development that we should fully welcome. croatia has risen from the rubble of the balkan wars to emerge as a mature, liberal democracy, in keeping with our values. its improved relations with its balkan neighbours bode well for the future. as the rapporteur for montenegro, i am particularly pleased that the croatian government has provided podgorica with its translation of the eu acquis. having said that, the ongoing dispute with slovenia over ljubljanska banka is obviously something that we must resolve as soon as possible. there must also be no going back on serbian rapprochement. the croatian government was right to reach out to the serbian community in vukovar by introducing dual latin- and cyrillic-alphabet street signs. however, the huge anti-cyrillic demonstration held in zagreb this month indicates some of the fault lines and tensions in that society. these must be monitored closely and carefully in the coming years in order to ensure continuing regional harmony, particularly in light of serbia’s accession negotiations. elsewhere, the political outlook is very positive. but as mr rouček’s resolution stresses, accession is not the end of a process but a milestone within it. zagreb still has work to do in tackling corruption and organised crime, facilitating the work of investigative journalists and liberalising access to information in general. it has already taken many positive steps in these regards, and the imprisonment of the former prime minister, ivo sanader, highlights the reach of their justice system. my final note, in what is now the last debate in this house before croatian accession, will be to call on that country once more to do all it can to bring 1990s’ war criminals to justice, and to use all the powers of the state to help former refugees and idps. but we can all acknowledge the hard work that croatia has already done on all of these points, and i look forward to welcoming its 12 newly elected meps into our house on 1 july.
madam president, thank you. twenty-two years ago, croatia fought for and eventually won its independence, for which it paid with the lives of many of its nationals. that independence has now been surrendered to the european union. to add insult to injury, croatia has had to pay to be allowed to surrender. part of this price was handing over two of its generals, generals markac and gotovina, to the un war crimes tribunal so that they could be stigmatised – quite unjustly, as it turns out – as war criminals. croatia is praised in the report for its democratic consolidation. let us hope that democracy is contagious and that it spreads to the eu and its worst member states. croatia has been told that it must respect the rights of minorities. if some croats have problems with minorities at present, then, in the words of al jolson: ‘you ain’t seen nothin’ yet’. wait until the poor of africa and asia, admitted by the eu through its common immigration policy, turn up in your towns and cities and outnumber your tiny population.
blue-card question. – i see that you were elected as a green. in talking about turkey, i wonder whether you have ever made an assessment of the impact on the environment for your country of conferring on 73 million turkish citizens the absolute right to work, live and settle in france.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, turkey is an economic and political powerhouse straddling both europe and asia and embedded in both those continents throughout its history and by modern geopolitical and social realities. therefore the ecr group acknowledges turkey’s importance and seeks to strengthen our ties of partnership with it. turkey is a democracy which desires closer european integration while it builds its relationships in the middle east and central asia as well. indeed, some of those relationships should be warmly welcomed by parliament. the rapprochement with israel, in particular, is extremely good news for those of us who support a more stable middle east and eastern mediterranean. both sides should be congratulated for their efforts. it was also hugely encouraging recently to hear of the recent pkk ceasefire and the start of a dialogue with öcalan in prison. nevertheless, there remain challenges in turkey and in the eu’s relationship with it. many of us were extremely disappointed by turkey’s refusal to cooperate with the republic of cyprus’s presidency of the council last year, and of course it would be extremely difficult to consider turkish membership of the european union while the cyprus recognition issue is unresolved and while turkey insists on unilaterally recognising the so-called turkish republic of northern cyprus (trnc) and not implementing the ankara protocols, as it has agreed to do. there has also been alarm in many quarters at turkey’s alleged support recently for salafists in syria, though of course i welcome its support for the free syrian army and the secular forces combating the assad regime. this threatens to destabilise that region further and possibly, eventually, turkey itself. i would finally encourage turkey to offer greater support to its minorities, such as christian syriacs; the issue of lgbt rights also needs to be taken more seriously. but despite all these problems and challenges, i reiterate that, from the viewpoint of the ecr, turkey remains a key friend and nato ally. we must reach out to it in a spirit of dialogue and cooperation and help its people and government attain the european integration that they seek.
mr president, i had not appreciated that if you asked a blue-card question you expunged yourself from the speaking list. i think this is a rule which has passed me by. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order: with the greatest possible respect, i have attended these debates many times and have had the privilege of putting blue card questions with the assent of colleagues many times. you, sir, are the only president who has had such a rule that, if somebody is speaking in a debate, they cannot put a blue card question. i think you are entitled to make this rule of your own accord under the rules of procedure, but it is an entirely personal ruling and it suppresses debate. could i respectfully ask you, sir, to reconsider?
mr president, on a point of order, i can understand that you might wish to deny mr duff as it were the right to speak at the end, but if he has already got a space on the list to speak for his political group, you cannot withdraw that just because he asked for a blue card. if he wants to ‘catch-the-eye’, you have total discretion over that. i do not believe you have the discretion to take him off the list of official speakers for his group if he puts up a point of order. otherwise you destroy the total dynamics of interactive debate.
mr president, i think that if the kurdish problem is truly to be solved, it must be coupled with a constitutional reform of the super-centralised nature of the turkish republic, and that means the transfer of powers from ankara to local and regional government, including the election of provincial governors. but one must inquire about this process of decentralisation, and we ought to ask if it is truly compatible with the evident desire of mr erdoğan to transform turkey into a presidential regime. there is an agreed constitutional conciliation process taking place, and it would be a great pity if the increasing impatience of the prime minister – with signs of increasing autocratic tendencies – were to jeopardise this delicate and sophisticated constitutional reform process.
mr president, i join the european commission in welcoming turkey’s new judicial package, which moves the country towards full alignment with the case law of the european court of human rights. however, i express my concern at the case this week of mr fazıl say, a classical pianist and composer who was handed a ten-month suspended sentence for a comment he made regarding religion on twitter. this case, according to amnesty international, sends a chilling warning to anyone using twitter or other social media in turkey that if you express an opinion that the authorities do not like, you could be next. i also tabled a number of amendments in this report in relation to trade union rights. even today, threats are being made against officers of the public sector union centre kesk, the di̇sk trade union and the hak-iş trade union. may day, which is now less than two weeks away, has been a focus for confrontation in the past, especially around taksim square. i call on the turkish government to engage positively with trade unions in order to avoid confrontation. finally, mr president, i stand strongly behind our socialist-democrat amendment for the president of the european parliament to invite two citizens to be elected from the turkish cypriot community to the european parliament as observers, following the example of the decision of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe in this respect. i ask members across this house to support this point in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, the report seems to question, at least in part, the criteria for turkey’s candidacy, as indeed have other colleagues. i agree. as there are profound question marks over turkey’s candidacy, the logic is that pre-accession funding to turkey, which will total eur 4.8 billion for the period 2007-2013, should cease forthwith. turkey is already in the eu’s customs union. in consequence, eu members, including the uk, are already getting all the benefits from trade with turkey that we reasonably can. turkey is also a member of nato, which means that certain members are in a military alliance with turkey. the fact of the matter is that we do not need turkey to be in a political union.
mr president, why does turkey want to join the european union in the first place? i expect she hopes to benefit from eu handouts and subsidies like so many before her. as a relatively poor country, i also expect that she hopes to offload some of her poorest citizens – her surplus population – by means of mass immigration under the eu’s open borders policy. turkey has over 72 million people, and if she joins the eu we can expect a large number of them to migrate to countries like britain. perhaps they will come to work, or to go on the benefits or housing system again like so many before them and use our public services. the british public must beware that the conservative, labour and liberal democratic parties are all in favour of turkish entry and of yet more waves of mass immigration. the uk independence party is the only british party ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, turkey certainly abuses human rights when it prosecutes academics for expressing opinions, such as describing the 1915 killing of armenians as genocide. of course turkey is not alone. france proposes an exact mirror image of that law. people will be prosecuted for saying that it was not genocide. france and many other member states prosecute and jail people for heretical opinions, so perhaps turkey might fit in after all. i am not an enthusiast for the european union, but for as long as it exists, i prefer it to be more european rather than less european. turkey is not european by its geography, ancestry, religion or culture. whilst not being an eu enthusiast, i really find it extraordinary that a country that is still occupying nearly 40% of cyprus should even be considered for membership.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it has been my great privilege to act as montenegro’s standing rapporteur for this parliament. montenegro is a small but beautiful country with much to contribute to the world’s stage and is undoubtedly a success story in the long and tortuous narrative of western balkan european accession. indeed, the smooth conduct of the science and educational chapters in the negotiations so far is not only a testament to montenegro’s progress, it also offers a real signal to the western balkan neighbours that enlargement does not stop with croatia’s accession and that eu membership can be extended to several other countries, provided they meet the right conditions. despite the overall positive outlook, however, we cannot overlook some problems in montenegro’s accession process. i have reservations about the independence and accountability of the judiciary and some of the training of the judiciary, in addition to the length of court procedures. the legal framework through chapters 23 and 24 in the negotiations must also be strengthened to target corruption and organised crime, and one idea is to introduce an enforceable code of conduct for all elected politicians. this would be very helpful. the montenegrin parliament in general must be more involved in the negotiations, as must the ngos and civil society. there are concerns about the freedom of the media. recent allegations made by montenegrin journalists have alarmed many of us. all attacks against journalists must be rigorously investigated and prosecuted. finally, i congratulate president vujanović on his re-election as president of montenegro. i know that there have been complaints and allegations about the results, but i have not seen any evidence that firmly suggests anything other than a close, free and fair election. i therefore call on all political forces to participate now in the parliament in a spirit of open, rational and democratic discourse, not least so that they can all cooperate on the country’s eventual eu accession, so that the legitimate aspirations of this small and beautiful country, as i always call it, can eventually be realised and so that montenegro will join the family of european nations within the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is hard to imagine that just 14 years ago the cities of serbia were being bombed by nato jets and there was a dictator in power. it seemed unthinkable then that serbia would so quickly be transformed into a stable, prosperous democracy, now with candidate status to join the european union. we can all celebrate this coming to pass so quickly. this is not to say that serbia does not still have a lot of work to do in the domestic arena. concerns remain in particular over corruption and the rule of law, and particularly the abuse of article 359, as my colleague györgy schöpflin has mentioned. internationally, serbia has nevertheless made great progress in building friendships with its neighbours, but the relationship with croatia is still far from ideal. and it is regrettable that prime minister dačić is so far unable to reach an agreement with prime minister thaçi of kosovo, despite many months of baroness ashton’s laudable eu-sponsored dialogue. finally i would encourage serbia to continue its work in bringing war criminals to justice and assisting the victims of the war. there is therefore much to welcome in serbia’s accession process, but i look forward to seeing far more progress in future when it eventually opens negotiations in the relevant chapters and finally settles the whole status, situation and relationship with neighbouring kosovo.
mr president, over the last decade the international community has spent an enormous amount of money in assistance to kosovo. at a rough estimate this is about eur 4.7 billion. this includes about eur 2.3 billion from the european union and member states. one of the key targets for this aid has been to combat organised crime and establish the rule of law. now, how is that progressing? the eu office of criminal intelligence has said that ‘the situation regarding organised crime in kosovo has not changed considerably since 1999’. a council of europe parliamentary assembly report in december 2010 linked senior kosovan politicians to criminal gangs involved in human organ trafficking. we already have plenty of criminals from kosovo in london, despite the fact that it is not yet a member of the eu. eu entry would enable yet more to come. we already have enough, thank you very much. ukip meps will vote against this report. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – that is a very good point. if kosovo ever becomes a member of the european union, it will of course cease to be an independent country, in the same way that my country ceased to be an independent country when we became members of the european union. you cannot have your laws made in the european union and still be an independent country. i thought this was the whole idea of this place. it is a united states of europe and we are being reduced to being regions of that state. am i missing something or are you missing something? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i have read the quote where these allegations are made. i hope, if the evidence is sound, that the people will be brought to criminal proceedings. you said yourself the investigations are still going on. the allegations have been made. i quoted the allegations and i hope very much that there is a conclusion one way or the other.
in writing. – kosovo is the largest per capita recipient of eu financial aid in the world. between 2007 and 2011, eur 1.2 billion of eu aid was spent on efforts to tackle corruption and organised crime in the country. however, as the eca revealed last year, these efforts have proved futile. furthermore, the country is the second poorest in europe and with 45% of its workforce unemployed, the economic situation does not look set to change in the near future. bearing these points in mind, it is fair to ask, why must we persist in throwing money – specifically eu taxpayers’ money – at what is arguably a hopeless cause? if kosovo is integrated into the eu, the amount of taxpayers’ money we gift them will rise – and at a time when member states’ citizens are struggling to pay their basic bills, can we justify this additional expenditure? we wish kosovo well and would like to see the country develop in its own time but we cannot afford to help countries who need so much financial support if they do not help themselves: allowing them into the eu is too high a financial burden for the uk and other member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i have to say that i think that the comments of the minister were absolutely pathetic. words, fine words, platitudes, essentially – a string of platitudes pulled together, and absolutely no programme of action at all. this is not a new issue. this has been dragging on since 2009. it has been raised successively with one presidency after another. i raised it with the minister herself six months ago, personally, in dublin. and yet here we are with nothing. we are hearing comments that this is all going to be dealt with in the context of the common fisheries policy reform. we have just heard from our own rapporteur, and i get the impression from her that it has hardly been placed on the table. it has just not entered into the negotiations in any substance at all. let us just remember: these long-term management plans are essential if we are to secure a sensible reform of the cfp and to put in place sustainable policies. since 2009, the council has been blocking the approaches of this parliament in terms of trying to put in place those plans. so it is now obviously up to the council to take the initiative to try and find a resolution to the problem. my colleague pat the cope gallagher suspended and released our blockage of the technical measures resolution earlier this year because simon coveney and the irish presidency had given us assurances that negotiations would take place. i will not say that simon coveney lied to us, but i do feel deceived. i do feel that the irish presidency has shown nothing but bad faith. i think that there was a breakdown in trust. if we are to release documents, if we are to vote for things because we are given assurances by the presidency, then i expect the presidency to come back and deliver. after three or four years of negotiations, we do not even know what the exact points of difference between the council and parliament are. it is time that the presidency simply convened a meeting, sat down round the table and agreed the points that must be discussed, that must be agreed upon, and then started to negotiate.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i do not want to play the role of good cop/bad cop after my colleague chris davies, but i have to say i agree with a lot of what he said. i have the greatest respect for ms creighton and for simon coveney and i think the irish presidency have been doing a very good job overall, but this situation is completely untenable. minister, to hear you saying that there is a divergence in the interpretations of the provisions of the treaty under articles 43(3) and 43(2); can you imagine me going along to my fishermen in peterhead or fraserburgh or indeed to your fishermen in killybegs and saying, ‘i am afraid there is a divergence of opinion on the provisions of the treaty in 43(3) and 43(2)’? they would throw me into the harbour. we need our fishermen to have multiannual plans, particularly at this time of austerity, so that they can go to the bank with a bit of paper in their hand and say to the bank manager: ‘here is the multiannual plan. this gives stability and certainty to me to borrow the eur 2 million i need to build a new white-fish vessel’. which bank in europe is going to lend them money without that multiannual plan? it is not simply divergent provisions that we are arguing about in this bubble in the european parliament, between lawyers of the commission, the council and parliament: we are talking about peoples’ livelihoods. we cannot have a serious reform of the common fisheries policy unless we resolve this ridiculous logjam. so please, minister, please uphold what simon coveney was pledging at the start of your presidency. please go out and knock heads together. do not be afraid to name and shame those ministers who are blocking this. we in here know who they are. i will not start naming them tonight because my french is not good enough to say the words, but please go out and knock heads together and let us get this thing resolved.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, since 2009, and that is the entire life of this parliament, the council has been blocking fisheries management. so what does that tell us? it tells us that the eu is not fit to run this industry. to put in place something that, in effect, delivers the tragedy of the commons, and then perpetuates it, is a disaster. it is a tragedy where everyone exercises their rights, but no one is prepared to exercise their responsibilities. the solution to the tragedy of the commons, of course, is to put in place clear property rights. repatriation of fishing with exclusive 200-mile zones belonging to the country concerned would stop this nonsense immediately. it would allow individual member states to end the aggressive beggar-thy-neighbour plundering of fish by certain fleets; it would put a stop to the damaging backroom deals in which fish are effectively traded on the basis of ‘you scratch my back on this and i will scratch your back on that’. that is the very worst form of local vote grabbing – the worst kind of politics to which this institution is permanently addicted. you have had your chance, you have failed. please make way.
blue-card question. – madam president, very briefly, i would just like to ask mr aylward whether he would agree that it is regrettable that, in the negotiations on the eci, one member state insisted that the construction of the eci had to exclude the possibility of any eci on the seats of the institutions. would he not agree that we should congratulate ms malmström for the fact that, while she was a member of the european parliament, she organised a petition on the single seat in brussels which so far has received 1.2 million signatures, and that the petitions committee will now respond to that petition thanks to the intervention of the chair of the committee, ms mazzoni, and mr schulz?
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, this is just a public relations exercise to paint a veneer of democracy over the undemocratic european union. the best definition of democracy that i know of was given by abraham lincoln, who said that it was ‘government of the people, by the people and for the people’. there are no common people in europe; there is no political identity with which they can identify, so you can never have a true democratic system in the european union as a whole. the only democracy that makes any sense is the democracy of nation states, where people identify with a common political identity. all democratic governments in different countries take different forms. they all have different structures. but in order for a country to be called a democracy, it must have one single characteristic: the ability not only to elect the government but also to sack the government and replace it with a different government. of course, that is the one thing you cannot do in the european union. the people do not select the commission, who are the effective government of the european union, and they cannot sack them. therefore no country that is a member of the european union can claim to be a functioning democracy. we are seeing our democracies destroyed. all the governments of the western world, and in particular those of the european union, are disconnecting from their own people and imposing policies on them which they do not want – like mass uncontrolled immigration and idiotic climate change legislation, which is destroying their economies. the only citizens’ initiative which makes any sense is the initiative to leave the european union. people in britain have the opportunity to do that by voting for the uk independence party, and they are doing it in increasing numbers.
madam president, it is fair to say that the european citizens’ initiative has had less of an impact than we would have liked. as a political activist, i have been engaged in many signature-collecting campaigns and the system put in place in the european citizens’ initiative has got to be the least user-friendly system that has ever been designed. the european citizens’ initiative was never intended to be exclusive. but as we identified at the time, it unnecessarily excludes non-eu citizens and young people. now it turns out that it excludes many millions of eu citizens living outside the eu, including many irish citizens who have been forced to emigrate and who have more reasons than most to contest important aspects of eu policy. we will be keeping a close eye on it and, if necessary, after assessment will support a demand for it to be reshaped and relaunched and to be more inclusive, and of course to include an eci on a single seat and put an end to the millions of euros wasted on this travelling circus.
madam president, like other members of this house, i believe that the citizens’ initiative does have the potential to create a public space in which citizens can enter into dialogue with the institutions. i think it also provides an opportunity for citizens of different countries to join together to raise transnational interests. and, unlike mr batten, i believe there is a european demos and this could contribute to that european demos. i was encouraged by the commissioner’s contribution this morning. it thought she showed a clear commitment to the citizens’ initiative, and we know from our history that she is personally committed to it. so i therefore ask the commission to do four things. i ask it to press ahead with its attempts to simplify and improve the technology and to continue to look for a way of to introduce a centralised online platform for the citizens’ initiative. i was pleased to hear the commissioner say that she will discuss with the uk and irish authorities the possibility of lowering the threshold for participation of citizens from these member sates living outside of their country, and finally, parliament and the commission have to do more to inform the citizens of the existence of this initiative. together we have to work with the member states to get buy-in from them, which clearly does not exist at the present time.
author. − madam president, thank you very much. i do understand that the commissioner is unavailable since he is on his way to washington. it seems to be a recurring event that we are unable to hold our debates on questions before the commissioner, because they are always on a thursday, and he is always on his way somewhere. now, the six-pack established the macroeconomic imbalance procedure (mip) as an important element supporting the reformed stability and growth pact. it extends monitoring to macroeconomic issues, whereas the pack previously focused on debt and deficits. an important element of this new procedure is the scoreboard of indicators that is a diagnostic tool for the commission. in november 2012, the commission added to the original set a new financial sector indicator on the growth rate of financial sector liabilities. now, in order to avoid misunderstandings, let me stress that an indicator on the financial sector is very welcome. in fact parliament had asked for one in december 2011. however, even though i am not suggesting that the chosen indicator is wrong, the simple fact is that there are many options as to the type of indicator to chose. unfortunately, the commission has entirely failed to respect the six-pack, which establishes the understanding that the commission should present suggestions for comment to the competent committees of the european parliament and of the council on plans to establish and adjust the indicators and thresholds. in this case, clearly the consultation did not take place. in fact, parliament received the information on the new indicator only days before the publication of the alert mechanism report in november 2012. adding insult to injury, it appears that the council had been consulted, albeit at the technical level through the efc. so the message seems not to have quite trickled through yet to the relevant commission services that parliament has equal rights with the council here. also, one would imagine that it is not so difficult to conduct a consultation with parliament, even if it means an informal submission of a draft to the secretariat. we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) have proved in the past that we are efficient and that we collaborate in good faith with the commission and the council. in my capacity as chair of econ, i attempted to get clarity on this matter by way of an exchange of letters in december and january, following the publication of the new indicator. i failed to get any sensible explanation from the commission, which could quite simply have admitted the mistake and promised to do better next time. indeed, to his credit, when similar mistakes have happened with dg mare, commissioner barnier has done exactly that and acted diligently. but quite to the contrary, the commission claimed that everything had been done correctly. against this background, we saw no other option than to follow up on this through this oral question. the oral question is brief and to the point, and we would very much appreciate a straightforward answer. can the commission explain why it failed to consult parliament when adding an indicator for the stability of the financial sector ahead of the alert mechanism report in 2013? does the commission consider the parliament resolution of 15 december 2011 on the envisaged initial design of a scoreboard for the surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances, in which parliament requested an indicator for the financial sector to be added, to constitute a consultation as defined by recital 12 of the mip regulation?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i share with many in this parliament major concerns about the way the commission is currently treating this parliament with regard to delegated acts, particularly in this file, but also on some others that i am working on, including emir and the reform of the derivatives legislation. brokering agreements over level one texts to make crucial decisions at level two and then bypassing parliament either by not consulting us at all, as in this case, or by adopting decisions with such short deadlines that we in this house do not have time to comment on them, let alone be listened to and replied to, is suddenly becoming par for the course. comitology, delegated acts, implementing measures, regulated technical standards: these may be terms that my constituents in wales have never heard of. but when the european federalist, professor geoghegan, states that 98 % of eu legislation is now done in this way and, by his estimation, fewer than 10 people in this parliament and 50 people outside of brussels understand the system, it is no wonder that people consider that eu decision-making is undemocratic. the reasoning behind delegated acts and implementing measures is to make the legislation more flexible and to be able to adapt to change, which i theoretically agree with and support. however, if this is not done in a truly democratic way, respecting the spirit of the treaty as well as the letter, then it really is no better than actually putting dictats into law. personally, i agree in principle with the concept that we actually need a measure on the financial sector liabilities added to the macro-economic scoreboard. however, there are many different ways of measuring this and given the views within the esrb, they are different to those of the commission. it does seem that unilaterally deciding to go ahead in this manner without proper consultation is yet another example of the commission thinking it knows better. if the eu wants to become relevant to its citizens in their everyday lives, this is not the way to go about it. we need to ensure that correct processes are adopted in order to prevent such an imbalance in treatment of a co-legislator and ensure some democratic scrutiny in this seemingly opaque procedure.
mr president, i would like to support the position of the ppe group. my group, the ecr group, did not sign the joint motion. it was in my view a deeply regrettable joint motion which, at a moment of national grief following the bombing terrorist attacks in boston against the marathon, accuses the united states of torture and degrading treatment. i think the wording of the motion was totally inappropriate. i am against the motion in principle, let alone at a time of national mourning when they have not actually tracked down the origins and who has actually done this atrocity against the american people and other nationalities who were there for the marathon. my group wants to put on record that the ecr group supports the ppe group very strongly on this issue at a very delicate moment for the american people.
mr president, i would just like to solve the confusion and speak against the referral back to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this important visa facilitation agreement, which will benefit ukrainian citizens. important human rights issues arose, which ms in ‘t veld rightly raised. for this reason, we called for a plenary debate. this was unusual in the circumstances. in this debate, i and other members called for further serious improvements in lgbt rights and other human rights issues. it was on this firm basis that i proposed that we vote against referral back to the committee on civil liberties and that thereafter we proceed to the vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because although there are still significant political problems in eu relations with the government of ukraine, the people should not suffer. in wales we enjoy visa-free travel with eu countries. the citizens of the ukraine should be allowed the same.
in writing. − i voted for this agreement. the establishment of a visa free regime for ukrainian citizens travelling to eu countries should depend on the political climate of eu-ukraine relations. ukrainians, like citizens of the eu countries travelling to ukraine, should have the right of visa free travel within the eu as stipulated under the terms of this agreement. a visa facilitation agreement is of great significance in people’s lives and strengthens contacts between people, making it easier for ordinary citizens to travel. the changes in this agreement facilitate travelling for representatives of civil society, ngos, journalists and young people. a joint commitment between the eu and ukraine can effectively contribute to the development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights by promoting easier contact and travel for people between the two contracting states.
in writing. − claude moraes’ report on visa facilitation to ukraine has become far more controversial than most similar reports, owing to the row about allegedly homophobic legislation passing through the verkhovna rada, and the continued imprisonment of ex-prime minister yulia tymoshenko. nevertheless, we must recognise the recent positive steps that ukraine has taken in its relations with the eu, and never lose sight of the fact that ukraine is a fundamentally european country with a history and culture inextricable from europe’s. ukraine’s rightful place is in the extended family of european nations, and eventually, we hope, in the eu itself. ordinary people are frequently forgotten in visa debates, which become hostages to the political knockabout between the eu and its neighbours – but it is ordinary ukrainian people who stand to gain if this legislation is adopted, and to lose out if wider political concerns are allowed to intrude. ukrainians must have the right to travel more freely as tourists in the eu, and engage in the kind of cultural dialogue which will be a pre-requisite for closer european integration, and ultimate eu membership. i abstain because of the uk’s non-schengen status, but fully endorse the aims of this report.
in writing. − despite difficulties in eu-ukraine relations i welcome moves to make it cheaper and easier to get visas between ukraine and the eu, which will increase communication and information exchange. with this new measure, i hope that democratic development and the promotion of human rights will be facilitated. the agreement reached will help lorry drivers, journalists and relatives of eu citizens to travel more freely between ukraine and the eu. however, it must be recognised that there are still severe problems regarding the discrimination of lgbt people in ukraine and the report stresses that no further liberalisation will take place until homophobic legislation is withdrawn and civil liberties are upheld in the country.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to make it easier for ukrainian citizens to obtain a visa for a visit to an eu member state of less than 90 days. measures include simplified documentation requirements, less bureaucracy and removal of the €70 cost for a visa. concerns about lgbt rights in ukraine have made this report contentious, with many arguing that we should not be easing regulation on ukraine while the country is in the process of bringing in legislation to restrict the rights of lgbt citizens. for this reason, the european parliament held a full debate on the report during the april plenary, in order to state our strong objection to such homophobic legislation. however, ultimately i have supported this report as it is aimed at facilitating travel for ordinary ukrainian citizens, including members of the lgbt community. furthermore, it is hoped that by promoting easier travel and contact between civil society, ngos and journalists from ukraine and eu, we can effectively contribute to the development of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in ukraine. the european parliament has made it clear, however, that we will not support any further liberalisation while discriminatory legislation remains in force.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because although there are still some problems in moldova related in particular to the rule of law, the people should not suffer. in wales we enjoy visa-free travel with eu countries. the citizens of moldova should be allowed the same.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. this amended visa facilitation agreement between the european union and moldova brings forward the original agreement and offers clear improvements for moldovan citizens.
in writing. − as the daily crowds around the romanian embassy in chisinau suggest, many moldovans are desperate to leave their country, if only temporarily, to see more of the world, and to experience other cultures, as tourists and students, as is the right of all europeans. it is only an accident of history that moldova ended up on the wrong side of the ussr, and its rightful place is to join its close cultural cousin romania in the european family. moldova has worked hard to implement reforms, and the commission rightly gave it a positive progress report in return; it is therefore highly welcome that parliament should make access to the eu easier for those moldovan travellers who wish to enjoy what schengen countries have to offer. as a member of a non-schengen state, i feel obliged to abstain on this specific report, but i look forward to monitoring moldova’s progress as it edges closer towards european integration and, we hope, eventual eu candidate status.
in writing. − i abstained on this report as, although it highlights some economic and social rights, it is too weak. i believe the european parliament has missed an opportunity to explore the dynamics between human rights and development, between economic & social rights and political & civil rights. key issues such as the impact of the economic crisis on workers rights and corporate social responsibility are not addressed. my constituency wales, like the rest of europe, is suffering because of the economic crisis. we need to study what affect this has on the rights of european citizens.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which, ‘reaffirms that while the global economic crisis poses a severe threat to the fulfilment of economic, social and cultural rights, there is no justification for states, whatever their level of income, to compromise on their obligation to respect fundamental human rights; stresses that governments have, at all times, an obligation to ensure ‘minimum essential levels’ of the social and economic rights necessary for living in dignity’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which assesses the effect of the financial crisis on human rights. the impact of the economic uncertainty of the last few years has been particularly pronounced in less developed countries, where a lack of resources has led to a general deterioration in social and economic rights. with around 1.2 billion people globally living in extreme poverty, it is vital to assess how the human rights records of the world's most vulnerable countries have been affected in order to devise constructive solutions to alleviate these problems. political rights have also been affected latterly, as there is a tendency for some governments to restrict freedom of expression in the face of growing discontent and hardship. for these reasons, it is right that the eu does all it can to uphold human rights in countries where they are most threatened.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amended proposal but against the legislative resolution. the commission proposal is meant to establish a common framework for the production of european union statistics on demography. the aim is to ensure the harmonisation and provision of data on population. accurate, reliable and comparable statistics are needed for good decision-making in the eu, the long term assessment of public spending, the monitoring of the sustainable development strategy and the monitoring of progress towards achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion. i voted against the legislative proposal so that the issue will be brought to the plenary before negotiations start between the parliament and the council. this will mean that negotiations will be based on broad agreement.
in writing. − i supported this proposal which seeks to regulate the provision and harmonisation of population data in member states. this includes the creation of a common framework for the systematic production of european statistics on demography regulating the collection, processing and transmission of statistics on population and life events.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it addresses the problem of unharmonised demographic data across the eu, and seeks to make our statistics easier to use and compare.
in writing. − i was largely in favour of this proposal on ship recycling for its aim to reduce the environmental impact of ship recycling and make it safer for the workers involved. however, i decided to abstain on my final vote because one major element was missing in this proposal: a transitional period for countries such as bangladesh and pakistan with the largest ship breaking yards in the world. making it illegal for eu ships to be recycled in south asian countries without including transitional measures of cooperation and development aid to help these countries raise their standards is something i was not able to support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amended proposal but against the legislative resolution. the dismantling of eu-flagged ships in non-oecd countries has been banned since 1998 however, eu ships are continuing to be dismantled outside oecd countries through the ‘beaching’ method. this causes significant damage to the environment and health. the commission proposes to reduce the negative affects of the recycling of eu-flagged ships without creating unnecessary economic burdens. in wales the protection of the environment and recycling are key priorities so this is important. i voted against the legislative resolution as this will allow the european parliament to start negotiations with the irish presidency for a first-reading agreement and achieve the best result possible.
in writing. − i welcome this report dealing with hazardous waste from ship scrapping. according to the eu waste shipment regulation, the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries has been prohibited since 1998. this prohibition implements at european level the so-called ‘ban amendment’ to the basel convention (bc) on the control of transboundary movements of hazardous wastes and their disposal. due to the manifold hazardous materials on board ships, any ship going from the eu for dismantling constitutes hazardous waste – and can thus currently only be dismantled legally within the oecd. however, this legislation is almost always systematically circumvented. according to the commission’s impact assessment, ‘in 2009, more than 90 % of eu-flagged ships were indeed dismantled outside the oecd, mostly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh) through the so-called ‘beaching’ method and with significant environmental and health impacts’.
in writing. − ship recycling. while the ‘dumping’ of hazardous materials on the beaches of developing countries, namely india, pakistan and bangladesh, must be addressed, i have serious concerns about amendment 31, the proposed europe-wide ship recycling fund. i do not dispute the good intentions behind this amendment and i agree that incentivising the environmentally safe and sound recycling of end-of-life ships is commendable; however i fear that it would fundamentally increase the cost of trading in europe. it would also risk imposing unfair administrative burdens on ports and ultimately drive ships away from eu registration. my concerns and ultimate abstention is also based on the risk that this amendment would provoke retaliatory measures from other regional maritime powers – an alarming prospective consequence. finally, with a large bangladeshi community residing particularly in the east of my london constituency, i would like to reiterate that my abstention is based on this amendment and does not demean the importance i place on the safeguarding of the environmental and public health of the people residing in the developing countries affected by ship recycling.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which outlines plans to improve upon the current system for scrapping ships by ensuring that their remaining parts are recycled by eu-approved facilities all over the world. recycling defunct vessels can be a hazardous occupation, with avoidable dangers – accidents, injuries, as well as health and environment issues – a frequent occurrence. this new regulation is a welcome first step in reducing the adverse effects of the inadequate scrapping of eu ships in developing countries, as members states would be required to ensure that their ships carry an inventory of hazardous materials on board and recycle only at facilities approved by the eu, with penalties imposed on owners who fail to comply.
in writing. − the environmental and human cost of current ship recycling is inexcusable, which is why i supported this report calling for the eu to enforce much higher standards. current ship recycling practices often result in the release of toxic chemicals and heavy metals, such as asbestos, lead, cadmium and mercury, while recyclers routinely work in poor conditions that violate their human rights to health and safety at work. this report will oblige member states to use only ship recycling facilities that meet internationally required standards set by the hong kong convention and it is hoped that enforcement of this convention at eu level will encourage other countries to follow suit. the report also includes other measures to promote safer recycling of ships, such as the obligation to maintain an inventory of hazardous materials, and requirements to limit hazardous materials used in initial manufacture. in addition, labour meps supported a compromise amendment calling for a recycling levy to be imposed on all ships calling at eu ports. the proposal was to use this to help fund safer recycling centres and reduce the incentive for ships to 'out-flag' but was unfortunately narrowly defeated.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the monitoring report on croatia. the biggest challenge facing croatia currently is the fight against corruption and organised crime, and the need for stronger legislation upgrading the judicial system. croatia must also prepare itself properly for eu funds and keep the banking sector stable. my group tabled amendments stressing the need to fight corruption and tackle discrimination, as well as recognising that croatia is largely, but not totally, on track to meet eu requirements. as a strongly european nations, wales has solidarity with those wishing to join the eu, and particularly small, independent countries. our aspiration is that wales will become a member state of the eu in its own right to reap the full benefits of european cooperation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which notes that croatia is on track to meet the outstanding requirements as regards the final preparations for membership.
in writing. − today’s report signals that croatia is well prepared for eu accession this summer and has a strong social market economy as well as strong democratic principles. however, it is important to highlight the need for further modernisation of the country in order for croatians to feel the full benefit of eu membership. in particular, i am pleased that croatia is preparing adequately for the future management of eu structural funds in the country and i urge croatia to do its utmost to avoid the risk of corruption and fraud in the allocation and use of eu funds. i also echo calls from the rapporteur for the country to continue making efficient use of the instrument for pre accession in the run up to joining the eu. furthermore, i believe that croatia can play a vital role in stabilisation and european integration in the western balkans and finally i urge those member states that have not approved croatia’s accession to do so as soon as possible.
mr president, i have heard of the carrot and stick approach, but i have never heard of the carrot and carrot approach. that seems to be the eu’s relationship with turkey. it seems to give, give, give. can i remind this institution that the cypriots held the presidency in the latter part of 2012 and turkey point blank refused to actually have anything to do with them, although they were a candidate country. well if the candidate country does not want to have anything to do with its presidency, surely the candidature should be ceased there and then. the people of cyprus are held hostage by the invaders and occupiers of northern cyprus. the people of morphou last november, together with myself, attempted to visit their town and were refused free access to their old town by the turkish authorities. the people of kyrenia wished to celebrate a religious service in their town over the coming easter and have been refused by the turkish authorities. baroness ashton is being her usual, useless self and is unable to help. is it not about time we got real on turkey?
in writing. − turkey has experienced massive economic growth in the last ten years (exceeded only by china worldwide) and the social situation is improving. it is now a country of immigration rather than emigration. the government is debating a new constitution to try to achieve agreement with the kurds and bring an end to armed resistance. i have worked closely with the kurdish people as does plaid cymru, the party of wales, and we support their right to self-determination. i voted in favour of this report with its recognition of the kurds in the hope that it will assist in the process of peace and democracy.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which, ‘stresses turkey’s strategic role, politically and geographically, for the eu’s foreign and neighbourhood policies; recognises turkey’s role as a neighbour and an important regional player, and calls for further reinforcement of the existing political dialogue between the eu and turkey on foreign policy choices and objectives; regrets that the alignment of turkey with cfsp declarations continued to be low in 2012; encourages turkey to develop its foreign policy in the framework of dialogue and coordination with the eu; calls on turkey and the eu to cooperate more closely on strengthening the forces of peace and democracy in the southern neighbourhood, a region of critical importance both for the eu and for turkey’.
in writing. − this resolution welcomes the peaceful, free and fair conduct of the early parliamentary elections in line with international standards; notes that the electoral legislation is broadly in line with the recommendations of the venice commission and the osce/odihr; underlines that the legal framework must be fully in line with the osce/odihr recommendations that no citizens are subject to undue restrictions; calls on the authorities to further improve the compilation of voter lists and transparency regarding the oversight of campaign finance, and to ensure the due implementation of the legislation on party funding, including by eliminating all forms of abuse, especially of public resources for political purposes; calls, furthermore, for the proper review of complaints in order to further increase, in line with the osce/odihr recommendations, public confidence in the electoral process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the progress report on serbia, recognising the commitment of the new government there to increased eu integration and the need to deliver reforms. i support its ongoing campaign against organised crime and corruption, but remain concerned about the continued violence against journalists and the inadequate laws on discrimination. plaid cymru the party of wales is also concerned by talk of the partitioning of kosovo and we will monitor these issues.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘welcomes the council’s call on the commission to present a report as soon as serbia has achieved the necessary degree of compliance with the membership criteria and key priorities, in order to open accession negotiations without further delay; strongly believes that the start of eu accession negotiations in june 2013 is an achievable objective; urges serbia to continue with the democratic, systemic and socio-economic reforms that will allow it to take on and implement effectively the obligations of membership’.
in writing. − it is clear that the kosovo authorities must step up their fight against corruption and organised crime and take further steps to reach out to the serbian minority. progress on women’s’ rights is welcome but kosovo must still improve the independence and accountability of its judiciary. i voted in favour to express support for kosovan independence which is still not recognised by five eu member states. i am glad to see reference in the report both to this fact and opposition to partition. as a party with independence as its aim, plaid cymru will follow kosovo’s progress with interest.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that this resolution deplores the vandalising of two serbian cemeteries and urges the kosovo authorities to bring to justice those responsible for such heinous acts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion. the macroeconomic imbalance procedure is a surveillance mechanism that aims to identify potential risks, prevent the emergence of harmful macroeconomic imbalances and correct current imbalances. it is able to identify countries and issues for which closer analysis is deemed necessary. the mip has a preventative and corrective arm, which can lead to sanctions for member states that repeatedly fail to meet their obligations. it is very important for my constituents in wales to know that the financial and economic framework of the eu is efficient and accountable. this motion facilitates and makes more efficient the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances, and ensures that proper procedures are abided by.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘strongly deplores the commission’s failure to respect the cooperative spirit of the mip regulation when it updated the scoreboard for the surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances’.
mr president, i do not want to get involved in a discussion about trotsky. i do want to utterly condemn any breaches of human rights in vietnam and particularly the curtailment of freedom of speech, but that is not the purpose of my presentation this afternoon. i want to say: are you aware, mr president, that there is a high-level delegation of parliamentarians coming to brussels next week from vietnam? and, the week after that, there is a delegation from this parliament going to vietnam. now once again it seems to me that we have taken the inappropriate step of arranging this debate in advance of finding out what other committees and delegations in this house are doing. and it leaves these other meps embarrassed or in a difficult position in negotiations that could have helped to uncover some of these breaches of human rights and could have helped to resolve this situation. please ask the conference of presidents to invite delegations to tell them what their programmes are before they take decisions like this and cause embarrassment with ill-timing.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last september, human rights defender vadim kuramshin was arrested on his return from the osce conference and sentenced to 12 years in prison. the following month, it was opposition leader vladimir kozlov, with whom my colleague mr donskis has spoken. in december, the courts banned almost all independent media, and in february the court of appeal banned independent journalists from exercising their profession. what is worse is that they are now considering further changes to the legal system, with fines and prison terms foreseen for the creation of political parties, and incarceration for participation in illegal rallies. the sky over kazakhstan is darkening fast as it flouts its osce commitments. i hope that baroness ashton, on her frequent visits there, is raising these issues. if she is, would she report to this house on kazakhstan’s reaction? and if she is not, would she at least send her new special representative for human rights to deal with it?
mr president, i have been to kazakhstan many times. i first visited almaty and semipalatinsk – which is now called semey – 14 years ago. the country was still trying to get on its feet economically. in semipalatinsk, few of the streets were paved, and there were hardly any street lights. when the sun went down the people came out onto the streets to cook their evening meals on charcoal stoves. in the past decade, the country has been transformed. it is the most outstanding economic success in central asia, and is a bastion of peace and stability. the standard of living for all kazakhs has risen inexorably, which is why president nazarbayev is popular with his own people. it has also – as we have heard in this debate – become a global player. it has joined the un, chaired the osce in 2010, hosted the recent talks on the iranian nuclear crisis, and now it will host the international expo – or world trade fair – in 2017 in astana. against that background, i think that this resolution is very negative and does not talk about the positives. it seems to emphasise all the negatives. i am going to vote against it.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are all aware of the terrible tragedies that took place at the boston marathon earlier this week and in texas overnight. we express our condolences to the victims, but we continue with this debate because the suffering of one is the suffering of all. the world medical association has stated that, on the 40th day of a hunger strike, ‘irreversible cognitive impairment and physiological damage may begin to occur, after which the possibility of death becomes an imminent risk’. given that these hunger strikes began on 6 february – over two months ago – it is absolutely right that parliament today continues with this debate. lawyers report that 13 of the 43 hunger strikers are being force-fed, including samir naji al-hasan moqbel, who describes his experience of twice daily being strapped to a chair and probed with tubes and a catheter. it is proper for this european parliament to question whether such treatment is contrary to international standards and ethics. i have participated constructively in discussions with the us state department to promote relocation of ex-guantánamo detainees to eu countries. so i do not apologise for asking them to respond constructively to us today in order to end the deplorable humanitarian situation that these guantánamo detainees on hunger strike are facing.
mr president, for 12 years the interrogation practices and the violations of the geneva convention at guantánamo have contradicted america’s profession of the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. of the 166 prisoners still there, only three have been convicted of any crime, and over half have been cleared for release. dick cheney’s words that they are living in the tropics, that they are well-fed, that they have got everything they could possibly want, are an affront to human decency. the closure of what amnesty international has described as ‘the gulag of our times’ was promised when obama came to office. four years later, in an act of collective despair, most prisoners are on hunger strike. the time has come for america to remove this stain on its moral integrity. we stand side by side with america in the fight against terror; we deplore the boston bombings; but we appeal to our friends across the atlantic to see that this injustice will serve to recruit – not to deter – the enemies of freedom.
mr president, on behalf of the efd group, i wish to raise the issue of the casini report under rule 175. this report is due to be voted on tomorrow, tuesday. the act concerning the election of members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage of 1976 permits altering the date of those elections if it is impossible to hold the elections on those dates. two reasons have been publicly advanced for changing the dates in 2014. the first is a desire to install a new commission by the end of july 2014 – apparently more time is required – and, secondly, germany has a public holiday on 8 june 2014. in my view neither of these reasons makes it impossible to hold elections on the date that the law requires. thus we are concerned that the proposed change of date is not lawful. on 24 april 2013 my colleague morten messerschmidt and i wrote to mr casini in such terms and invited him to secure a legal opinion on the legality of the draft council decision. to date he has not even acknowledged the letter, let alone addressed this issue. to avoid the risk of legal action by a political party dissatisfied with the date, the legal basis for this decision must be established properly. for that reason we say it should not be the subject of a vote tomorrow; the issue should go back to committee for further consideration of this important point.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, eu policy on renewables is a success story. in the current doom and gloom, it is worth simply pointing that out. the overall target of 20% by 2020 is currently on track, and the renewables sector has continued to grow during the recession, on average at 6% per year. in the uk, green industries overall contributed more than a third of all growth last year and have created almost a million jobs. growth has brought significant cost reductions in renewable technology, especially for onshore wind and pv (photovoltaics). contrast this with the sharply rising price of gas, especially imported gas. we need to remember that it is the rise in gas prices that is responsible for two thirds of the increase that people see on their household energy bills. where there have been problems with renewables is where feed-in tariff support has become a victim of its own success and governments have failed to intervene soon enough to stop a bubble developing. so i am glad that the commission is due to issue guidance on support schemes, which need to be flexible and appropriate for the different levels of maturity of different technologies. but the fact remains that, unlike the emissions-trading scheme, and unlike carbon capture and storage, the renewables part of the climate package is on track. it would be madness, in my view, to undermine that success, but undermine it we will if we do not put in place – soon – a 2030 target for renewables. without a post-2020 framework, growth is expected to slump from 6% currently down to 1%. think of what that would mean in terms of jobs, not just directly, but also in infrastructure and support industries. just one example – from one small town in my constituency, blyth. the port of blyth in northumberland plans to double its capacity because of the expanding renewables sector, creating an extra 500 jobs. some people have argued that we should just have one target for 2020 – a greenhouse gas target – and just leave the market to do the rest. maybe the market would deliver eventually, but with the carbon price at around eur 3, the market is certainly not incentivising any low-carbon investment at the moment. renewables policy is the golden goose that is actually delivering real co2 reductions as well as the precious eggs of jobs and growth, so do not kill it. let us support an ambitious renewables target for 2030.
blue-card question. – mr pieper, how do you envisage the european emissions trading scheme incentivising low carbon technologies without any renewables target, given the current price for carbon and the reluctance of certain governments even to support a backloading proposal in support of that price?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr belet for his work on this. we in this group are very thankful to him, his staff and others. we are happy at how the negotiations have come out, both inside and outside parliament. we now have a deal that better reflects the need to preserve the existing high standards in some member states and also to promote high standards elsewhere, both within the eu and outside. i and my group believe that the trade union participation, particularly in the area of safety representation, is very important indeed. that this is done in a well-worded directive is better than in an ill-proposed regulation. we are glad to see that those trade union representatives will now be involved in drafting all major hazard reports. independent representatives make for the highest of standards and the most open of transparent procedures, vital for this particular industry. the report also promotes higher environmental standards – as we have already heard from my good colleague – for the industry, although there remain some concerns over the future of the arctic, with which the eu has no natural geographical involvement. we can of course have influence on our companies that do business there and, by raising the standards of what our businesses can do there, we can expect to influence events elsewhere. we are also promoting greater use of renewable and low-carbon forms of energy, rather than relying too heavily upon oil and gas. however, it is important that the european union makes use of its indigenous forms of energy, especially when it is in the form of a generator of so many thousands of jobs and allows millions access to energy which could otherwise cost far too much for them if we wait for things to be developed. drilling for oil and gas offshore remains dangerous and difficult and we need high safety standards in europe. i believe they have just been strengthened by this directive and hope that they will cause the safety standards in our waters to rise. lest we forget the effects of having poorer standards and what they mean, remember what happened on 6 july 1988 in british waters, when 167 men and women lost their lives on piper alpha. as 6 july this year will be the 25th anniversary of this, it is quite fitting that, in this year, we serve the very best of those memories with what we do now in terms of raising the standards and bringing an appropriate level of balanced representation from the workers themselves to ensure their own safety where they work. i commend this report and thank very much all those who have been involved in it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first may i congratulate mr belet on his skilful leadership of this dossier. this has been a good outcome. we have ended up with a workable directive that will ensure that all member states with offshore operations apply high environmental and safety standards. but, sensibly, those member states that already have robust regimes in place will not have to rewrite their rules, as would have been the case with the regulation originally proposed by the commission. on the arctic, i am a bit disappointed at not getting stronger protection included in this directive. we are told that the eu does not have a mandate to ban offshore oil and gas drilling in the arctic, as currently no member state has arctic waters. that makes it all the more important that other international forums, such as the arctic council, work to put in place special protection for this highly sensitive region. i am pleased that meps managed to introduce a requirement for national authorities to assess oil spill response effectiveness, where 100% effectiveness means that a response can be assured at any time, no matter how difficult the weather or the logistics. that oil spill response effectiveness rating will inform the decision on whether to authorise an operation or not. the directive also introduces strong financial liability provisions. before operators can start, they will have to prove that they have sufficient financial capacity in case of an accident. finally, i am pleased that some wording from meps on operations outside eu waters survives in the final text. article 18 requires eu companies with offshore operations to apply the same corporate major accident prevention policy, whether in the eu or outside. this is a real step forward because it stops companies applying double standards on environmental protection. companies will also have to be much more transparent and report on any accidents that happen in their operations, even outside the eu. more could be done of course, but i believe that this is a final text which significantly strengthens environmental protection in an intelligent way that builds on existing good practice.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, whenever there is a crisis, brussels seems to go into a power drive, seeing it as a chance to call for yet more centralisation and yet more europe. the commission’s reaction to the tragedy of the oil spill in the gulf of mexico was a ‘one-size-fits-all’ tick-box piece of legislation, and this would have been misguided. on top of this, many of those sitting over there amongst the greens wanted to shut down the entire offshore oil industry. what would that have done for our energy security? and do you even care if the lights go out? the same group now wants to send brussels officials off to the remotest parts of russia to tell them what they can do in the far north. the eu does not own the arctic. i care about safety standards, and yes, i want to protect the environment too. oil drilling is dangerous, but as part of a balanced energy policy we need it, and it needs decent, experienced oversight. ninety per cent of europe’s oil and gas production comes from the north sea: from the uk and denmark, and norway outside the eu. fundamentally the commission’s original proposals would have made the north sea more dangerous. furthermore, every single safety manual on every oil rig would have had to be torn up and rewritten. lawyers would have made millions, safety standards would have gone down and prices would have gone up. in my view the cost of energy is already too high in europe. through the amendments we have redrafted this law line by line. i would like to thank my staff for their work on over 300 amendments, and particularly the rapporteur for his good cooperation, taking over the work i led on the own-initiative report. instead of a top-down regulation and a tick-box culture, we have a site-specific, country-by-country approach. as a result, the safety regime, which is considered the best practice across the world, will be exported from the north sea to the mediterranean and the black sea. this is a rare victory for common sense.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, as this question makes clear, the report calls for the commission to publish its proposals on a voluntary permanent union relocation scheme, as promised since december 2011. it is the intention of this scheme that member states can request assistance in the relocation of refugees and asylum seekers across eu borders. the uk, of course, has a long history of accepting refugees and asylum seekers in very significant numbers over centuries. if the proposed scheme is voluntary then what is the point? member states could continue to determine their own responses to particular circumstances in relation to their own ability to respond, which is exactly what they should do. asylum and immigration policy should remain under national control. it is easy to understand why the commission does not want to come up with a scheme that will be unworkable in any case. ukip meps will vote against.
mr president, as the previous speaker rightly said with regard to the evaluation of the eurema project in malta in october, it is very clear that we needed a voluntary permanent relocation scheme. as the commissioner very honestly said, we cannot have such a scheme if the council sets its face against a permanent legislative solution. we are here today with the oral question for the simple reason that the member states are not providing the solidarity which we in this house wish to see. we have a situation where the commission is announcing, in the face of this resistance by the council, an annual relocation forum. after a drop in asylum figures since the 1990s, we now have a genuine burden-sharing crisis, where some countries, such as greece and malta and my own member state, have to deal with higher asylum numbers. this is a real crisis, and we have to see whether this solution is something that we can work with. we now all have to work to see whether these kinds of solutions are something we can work with when the member states will not help us by coming up with a permanent legislative proposal.
rapporteur. − mr president, the czech protocol is the final piece of the treaty of lisbon saga that we need to dispatch. its purpose is to join the czech republic to protocol 30, which was signed by britain and poland and the principal purpose of which is to restrict the use of the charter by and in the british and polish courts. the legal effect of protocol 30 is, however, unclear. tony blair claimed it was a british opt-out from the charter, but it is not that: a view confirmed not only by the uk court of appeal but also by the court of justice in luxembourg. whatever the intended effect of protocol 30, its practical effect is to weaken the force of the charter and to vary its application across the union. president václav klaus, of blessed memory, demanded the inclusion of the czech protocol as his price for completing the ratification of the lisbon treaty. note that the klaus protocol has never been agreed by the czech parliament or the czech courts. as things stand, it seems most improbable that it is to be ratified by the czech senate or indeed the new president, milos zeman. so the czech protocol that we are considering relies upon the twin legacy of two men, distinguished in their own way – mr blair and mr klaus – whose service to europe is not beyond reproach. it is not, i have to say, surprising in these circumstances that the committee on constitutional affairs found it a problem to agree on more than an exceedingly neutral (or indeed ‘neutered’) opinion – and on the recommendation that, should the european council agree to press ahead with this – in my view, spurious – protocol, the other member states ought not to start their own ratification processes before the process in the czech republic has been completed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am now returning as it were to speak on behalf of my group, but i would also like to congratulate and thank my colleagues from the other four political groups in the house who have co-signed an amendment which turns the neutral opinion into a negative one. i hope that this will be passed in the plenary on wednesday. we are tabling this for two reasons. the first is because parliament has an important duty to protect and promote the charter of fundamental rights. we cannot find ourselves to be complicit by supporting a treaty amendment which blunts the effects and force of the charter. why ought czech citizens to be exposed to the risk of a weaker regime of fundamental rights than anyone apart from the british? secondly, it is clear that treaty amendment of any sort in any direction is at present, especially in the middle of this crisis, extremely unpopular. we ought only to embark upon treaty revision in exceptional circumstances and for extremely sound reasons. mr klaus’s protocol is not one of those. i have to say that i am sorry that the council benches are liberated of personnel this evening. certainly if the council had been serious in pressing its case for this treaty change, it ought to have been present to argue its case.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the european court of justice will judge whether the laws applied to the czech republic are in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights. the fear is that this will make it possible to bypass the czech courts and assert, for example, that property claims by persons displaced after the second world war be judged directly at the european court of justice (ecj). the charter even allows for perfectly valid rulings of the czech courts to be re-examined. the czech republic seeks a similar exception to that of the uk and poland. this aims to give the czech republic a guarantee that the lisbon treaty cannot lead to the breach of the so-called beneš decrees. we all remember how, at the time of lisbon, we were assured by the europhile political class that the charter would not apply to the uk. we in ukip said that the ecj would swiftly get round that assertion and rule that the charter does apply to the uk, and so it proved. that being so, the terms of protocol 30 ought to be recast in order to give effect to the clear wishes of the uk, poland and the czech republic not to be bound by the charter in any way.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all those who have spoken. to mr vlasák, i would say that we are not obliged as a parliament to agree with the european council. it would be an extraordinary set-up if we were. we are seeking to articulate an autonomous opinion, and that has not been easy. to mr agnew – who, i see, has now left – i would point out that the issue of the beneš decrees was settled decisively and definitively at the time of the accession of the czech republic, and that is that. thank you to all those who made the case for opposing this measure extremely effectively, including commissioner malmström, who makes it subtly and politely but also forcibly. it is clear what the commission’s true opinion actually is. finally, on the question of whether or not to call a convention on this treaty amendment, i have proposed that in this instance we refrain from doing so. however, mr president, this is the last time you will hear me say that we ought not to call a convention. next time round, we are going to do it properly.
madam president, the next meeting of the bilderberg group is to be held in england. the location is thought to be the grove hotel, watford, and the dates to be 6 to 9 june 2013. these annual meetings are summits of the most wealthy, powerful and influential people in the worlds of politics, finance and business. the biggest mystery surrounding them is why the mainstream newspapers and broadcasters have chosen not to report on them since 1954. in the internet age, however, their existence can no longer be kept secret. i have written to all the mainstream media outlets in the uk asking them if they intend to report on this meeting and if not, why not. i have also submitted a freedom-of-information request to the hertfordshire police commissioner asking on what basis the policing for the event is being provided and who is paying the bill. i am very much looking forward to the responses.
madam president, the terms ‘pro-european’ and ‘anti-european’ are often used as shorthand for ‘pro-eu’ and ‘anti-eu’. i for one find the use of the term ‘anti-european’ to describe those of us who are opposed to eu membership, or even the existence of the eu, as highly offensive. europe is much older and much more than the eu; it is a cultural entity, a religious entity and an entity with overlapping and related ancestries. the eu goes out of its way to welcome third-world immigration and embraces the political and economic doctrine of globalism. it is the eu that is anti-european because its policies will eventually destroy the distinctiveness of europe. if third-world immigrants come to europe they do not become new europeans to replace unborn european babies, they turn parts of europe irreversibly into the third world. it is global capitalism and the related political ideologies that fuel immigration because it regards human beings as though they were merely facts of production.
madam president, petty officer david briggs was born in balham in my london constituency. he died when hms sheffield was sunk by a missile fired by an argentinean aircraft in 1982. david was 26 years old when he died. he was awarded the distinguished service medal for leadership, bravery and devotion to duty in trying to save his ship. 255 british servicemen were killed and 775 wounded retaking the falklands – an overseas territory of the united kingdom. it is shameful that at least one member of this house does not accept what even the eu has classified as a british overseas territory. it is shameful that the same member ignores the will of the falkland islanders, who in march this year voted overwhelmingly in favour of retaining their ties to the uk. i now ask that member to apologise not only to this house and to the islanders, but also to the 255 families who lost loved ones. any member who insults the memory of our fallen, with ill-considered comments such as these, is not suited to represent this parliament abroad. i would remind him and other members that the falkland islands are british.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 may 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by renate weber, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the eu charter: standard settings for media freedom across the eu (2011/2246(ini)) (a7-0117/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 may 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by piotr borys, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the implementation of the audiovisual media services directive (2012/2132(ini)) (a7-0055/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 22 may 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by ria oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on an agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions (2012/2234(ini)) (a7-0137/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 may 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by jens geier, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on regional strategies for industrial areas in the european union (2012/2100(ini)) (a7-0145/2013).
no, this evening people have spoken once. exceptionally i gave the floor to ms sanchez-schmid because no epp speaker had already spoken but, as i say, france has exceptional problems in the industrial sector so i thought it was important that she spoke. i now call mr morganti under rule 149.
can i just clarify something, ms jazłowiecka. if you wish to put in a statement in writing, because you attended the debate you may do so – that is your right – and it will form part of the debate.
in paragraph 21, mentally perhaps you should add sheffield in my own constituency, which has been transformed as a result of eu policies, as have other regions in the uk. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 21 may 2013. written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, tomorrow’s european council has a very worthy agenda and i welcome the fact that, for once, our leaders are seeking to tackle concrete issues like tax evasion and energy prices, in contrast to the commission who are wasting valuable resources on such causes as banning reusable olive oil bottles. rather than tackling a double dip recession, mr barroso seems to be worried about double-dipped bread. while the summit has a worthy agenda, we need, of course, some concrete results. on taxation issues, nobody can blame companies for wanting to look after shareholder capital by minimising their tax bill in a legal manner. however, tax research uk estimates that eu governments are losing about a trillion euros each year through tax fraud. at a time when finances are tight and taxpayers are squeezed, it is only right that we crack down on those who pursue illegal means to avoid making any contribution to public coffers and who put smaller competitors at a disadvantage. so i welcome david cameron’s making this a priority for the uk’s g8 presidency. tackling tax evasion demands a globally-coordinated approach to increase transparency and reporting and agree new standards for information exchange, and i hope that the leaders make more progress tomorrow than the finance ministers made last week. conversely, of course, member states could do more to help struggling businesses: by making tax codes simpler and making our rates more competitive and thus making it simpler for businesses to give money to the government, instead of indulging in complicated, difficult and time-consuming processes for hiding their money offshore. however, we should not confuse cooperation on tax evasion with acceptance that the eu should interfere in taxation matters and seek to harmonise. it is very frustrating for us that the parliament reports being voted on today blur this line by calling for a more common tax base, which is a prelude to harmonisation. such matters are the prerogative of national governments, and we should keep our hands off. ultimately, if countries such as france want to pursue an ideological drive towards higher taxation, that should be their choice. all i ask is that, in the interests of energy efficiency, maybe the last businessman to leave france will turn the lights off. which brings me to the other topic of the summit, namely energy, because unless we produce a clear energy policy, lights will start to go out right across the eu – and let us not underestimate the consequences if we fail to grasp the growing problem of high energy prices. for example, the federation of german industries (bdi) predicts that the cost of electricity for german industrial users will be eur 110 per megawatt hour by 2020; in the us it is eur 54 – less than half that total. it is a bit like asking our companies to compete with one hand tied behind their backs. at the same time, of course, we are condemning people on low incomes to freezing-cold homes. there is no easy solution, but i believe the right place to start is with a thorough trawl through all eu policies, from climate policies, such as the emissions trading system, right through the financial services legislation. if any of those policies have an inadvertent impact on energy prices or if they prevent major infrastructure investment, we should repeal them or reform them, because a single market in energy will be created only with enormous amounts of private sector capital for infrastructure, and that capital is currently not forthcoming. secondly, i agree with markus beyer from business europe, who said recently that europe does not have an energy policy: it has only a climate policy. tomorrow’s summit needs to correct that. we need both policies, and they need to be complementary rather than contradictory, which they are at the moment because too often our climate policies have pursued arbitrary targets and de-industrialisation. this serves only to destroy jobs and to relocate energy-intensive industries to countries with poor or no environmental standards, which is neither good for the environment nor good for our economies and jobs. yet, whilst we seek to create a stronger energy policy, we must also avoid the eu’s tendency towards a one-size-fits-all approach. after all, solar panels may be a good option in spain or greece, but i have to say they are completely useless in the north of england, in my constituency, where the sun shines for about half an hour a year. instead, we should preserve the flexibility to provide for what works in each country, whether that be micro-generation, renewables, nuclear power or shale gas. a sure way to make the lights go out in europe would be to follow the advice from mr cohn-bendit and close off all our avenues of energy production apart from wind and solar. we could probably power a small town from the hot air generated by mr cohn-bendit in this chamber but that is not going to give us a proper energy policy. presidents, you cannot grow an economy with expensive energy. tomorrow’s summit needs to show people that the eu can be about finding solutions to their problems and not just about grand plans for federal union. we look forward to a change and to some concrete results.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, well, there is a great degree of unity here this morning. a common enemy: rich people and successful companies evading tax, which is of course a problem – avoiding tax, which is not illegal but gives this whole chamber this morning a high moral tone and, as mr barroso says, it is all about the perception of fairness. there is the added bonus, of course, that it drives a wedge between the united kingdom and the channel islands, the isle of man and the caymans. but before we declare our virtues, perhaps we ought to look just a little bit closer to home, and i hope that the taxpayers all over europe listen to this. if we look at the officials that work for the commission and for parliament, the highest category are people that earn a net take-home pay of just over gbp 100 000 a year and yet, under eu rules, they pay tax of 12%. it is tax fraud on an absolutely massive scale, and i would say to mr barroso: how can that be deemed to be fair? how can people out there struggling – the 16 million unemployed in the eurozone – look at these institutions not only paying people vast sums of money but allowing them tax and, also of course, pension benefits on a scale not seen anywhere else in the world? so i suggest we have a bit less of this high moral tone. and what have these officials given us? well they were the architects of the euro, which is a complete disaster. their obsession with global warming, which chimes very strongly here, means we are despoiling our landscapes and seascapes with these disgusting wind turbines and driving up energy prices. but never let it be said that i cannot acknowledge success when i see it, and i am sure the citizens of europe will all clap and cheer loudly that the grave mortal danger of olive oil in dipping bowls has been removed by the officials. well done, everybody! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i agree with you that tax evasion is a problem and is costing governments money, but we should remember that tax avoidance is legal. the biggest reason that tax havens are allowed to prosper is that we have got this very statist mindset that we must try to get as much tax out of successful individuals as we possibly can. if you do that, and if you have a very complicated tax system, people will do all they can within the law to avoid paying tax. the answer for western governments is to learn some of the lessons from the 1980s in britain and america: bring taxes down, simplify taxes, and then those who wish to obey the law have no need to use tax havens.
mr president, while the citizens of europe and small businesses can rightly claim to be suffering from tax fatigue, multinational corporations and financial institutions have come through the current crisis relatively unscathed. we heard a lot about that this morning. while i support the current corporation tax rate in the south of ireland, i would like to see the executive and assembly have the power to vary the corporation tax rates in the north of ireland. we need to increase the minimum effective rates for corporation tax, which, by the way, are still higher than the actual corporation tax rates in some of these countries which are shouting loudest about it. the irish government has neither the will nor the inclination to address the issue of excessive write-downs of corporation tax. they actually facilitate tax avoidance schemes, allowing multinationals to transfer profits as royalties, dividends etc., so that little tax is paid. this constitutes a race to the bottom and it is a race that ireland cannot win.
mr president, it is the member states that have the responsibility to collect taxes and fight fraud, yet here the eu is trying to extend its legislative competence. it is obviously true that fraud is often committed across international borders, often by the multinationals that are so beloved by the eu’s neo-liberal policies. but ‘borders’ means all borders, and not just the borders of member states. action needs to be by extensive international agreement and not confined to the eu. on another subject, to talk about growth, jobs and competitiveness in the context of the eu’s energy policy is wildly optimistic. renewable energy might well be a desirable ideal, but it is inefficient and expensive. high energy costs will not create growth, jobs and competitiveness, they will destroy them. suppliers of energy wishing to use fossil fuels are penalised financially, and those plants will eventually be closed down. to make matters worse, emergent countries seem to be immune from strictures against the use of fossil fuels. in the uk we have vast quantities of oil locked in the ground as the result of mrs thatcher’s policies in the 1980s. we must discard our prejudices against fossil fuels and against nuclear energy. they will be the key to growth and jobs. the difficulty facing the eurozone will doubtless come up. perhaps they might heed the words of oscar lafontaine and begin an orderly dismantling of the eurozone. only escape from the eurozone will rescue the troubled economies of the south from permanent stagnation.
mr president, balancing tax sovereignty with the need for improved coordination and transparency in tax matters will be difficult but it must be done, both within the eu and globally. it is abhorrent that some multinational companies are using complex legal structures across a number of countries to pay as little corporation tax as possible. estimates of one trillion euros per year being lost to fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance are shocking at any time, but more so when our governments need every penny of tax revenue to rebalance their budgets and get deficits under control. the game of cat and mouse with global companies over corporate taxation is not new, yet it seems that during the last 15 years many governments have given companies an easy ride, preferring to receive increased foreign direct investment and income through new employment rather than taxing global profits effectively. i firmly believe in tax sovereignty. member states have a responsibility to deal with their own companies and jurisdictions but they also have a responsibility to ensure that their tax law does not create perverse incentives globally. the us foreign account tax compliance act (fatca) initiative has its extraterritorial problems, but it gets to the root of the problem. if companies are forced to report their global taxation arrangements, it will be clear who is paying their fair share. the only way to address this is via the g8 and g20. david cameron is leading the debate internationally to find ways of solving these problems: globally-agreed standards for reporting, exchanges of relevant quality data, and simplified tax systems. collecting tax on worldwide income, where appropriate, will ensure fairness in taxation globally.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes).
in writing. − i voted against this agreement as i believe that the traditional bilateral air service agreements were the most effective. the uk should be allowed to decide for itself how it wishes to build and manage its relationship with sri lanka.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is important that the eu-line is extended to agreements between single member states and third countries. only by legislating on this can we ensure that fair deals are made. i know that my constituents in wales want to see more transparency when it comes to air services, especially with the taking over of cardiff airport by the welsh government.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. traditionally, international aviation relations between member states and third countries are governed by bilateral air service agreements. those bilateral agreements include a ‘designation clause’ which allows a third country to reject, withdraw or suspend the permissions or authorisations of an air carrier that has been designated by a member state but that is not substantially owned or effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. in 2002, the court of justice of the european union ruled that this traditional designation clause infringed the law of the union. it has been found to constitute discrimination against community carriers established on the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states and to be contrary to article 49 of the tfeu. by its decision of 5 june 2003, the council, therefore, authorised the commission to negotiate with the third countries concerned so-called horizontal agreements which replace the traditional designation clause with an eu designation clause, permitting all eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment and allowing them non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu and the third countries.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report with its non-discrimination on the grounds of nationality provisions for eu air carriers. this will help support the airline industry in my constituency of london and throughout the uk.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i do not believe that the eu should have this level of control over air traffic management.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it strengthens and consolidates cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol, the intergovernmental organisation consisting of 39 mainly national air control bodies from the eu member states. this cooperation will enable eurocontrol to support the eu in the implementation of the single european sky (ses) legislation. the aim of the ses legislation is to promote sustained air-traffic growth and air-traffic operations under the safest, more cost-efficient and flight-efficient and environmentally friendly conditions. this legislation will be important to airbus which employs thousands of workers in wales.
in writing. − i supported the proposal. eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation with 39 contracting parties from all over europe, including all the eu member states except estonia. it plays a pivotal role in air-traffic management (atm) in europe. in line with the single european sky (ses) legislation, the commission designated eurocontrol as the performance review body of the ses (in 2010) and as the network manager for the atm network functions (in 2011). the aim of the agreement is to strengthen and consolidate cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol in order to enable eurocontrol to support the eu in the implementation of ses and related eu policies.
in writing. − this is a report that received broad support, and i look forward to the benefits it will bring to the airport and airline industries in my constituency of london.
in writing. − the last two decades have witnessed an unprecedented growth in air travel. indeed, heathrow airport in my london constituency is at full capacity, reportedly servicing 70 million passengers per year. i am therefore delighted that the eu and eurocontrol have agreed upon a general framework for enhanced cooperation in the field of air navigation. crucially, extended cooperation will serve to accommodate increasing air traffic flows, whilst improving performance. during a time of economic hardship across the european union, inefficiencies must be reduced and with eurocontrol reporting extra costs of around eur 5 billion per year due to inefficiencies in europe’s fragmented airspace, i am confident that enhanced cooperation will also facilitate significant savings. i am also certain that this agreement will go far to aid the successful implementation of the single european sky.
in writing. − the historical archives of the eu institutions represent an important source of information for the history and legacy of the eu. these archives are kept at the european university institute (eui) in florence. it is essential to provide access to the archives for public consultation and for preservation of information about the eu institutions, and to support research about the history of european integration. i, therefore, voted in favour of this report which provides for a more solid legal and financial framework for cooperation between the eu and the eui. in wales we place great importance on history and strive to preserve our history through museums and archives. we also realise the importance of allowing archives to be accessible to the public in order to help with research, studies or simply for those who are interested in increasing their knowledge.
in writing. − the historical archives of the eu institutions represent an important source of information for the history and legacy of the european union. therefore it is essential to provide access to the archives for public consultation and for preservation of information about the eu institutions, and to support research about the history of european integration.
in writing. − we voted against this report as for the eu to change the european elections date is simply unlawful.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report which means that the european elections will take place between 22 and 25 may. this will ensure that the elections do not clash with public holidays and ensure that the largest percentage of the electorate possible will vote. i will be ensuring that my constituents in wales know the date of the election well in advance to increase turnout.
in writing. − by adopting this decision we confirm the dates for next year’s european elections. whilst this is an important date for all the eu’s citizens, the people of scotland have an even more important date on 18 september 2014. on that day the people will be able to vote for scottish independence and so ensure that we are represented as of right in all the eu’s institutions.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that agreement has been reached to hold the european elections between thursday 22 and sunday 25 may 2014.
in writing. − i voted for this decision. after considering the reasons for and against defending the member’s immunity, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should not defend the parliamentary immunity of gabriele albertini.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i do not see it fit that immunity be issued in this case.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of spyros danellis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i do not see it fit that immunity be issued in this case.
in writing. − i voted that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of spyros danellis. mr danellis is accused of falsely accusing a third party of an unlawful act with the intent of having him prosecuted for it, and of making false statements about a third party which could damage their reputation and good name, knowing such statements to be untrue. said alleged false statements and accusations relate to the sale of the fruit of olive and other trees uprooted on expropriated land by a contractor carrying out public works in the context of the construction of a dam in the municipality of hersonissos in the prefecture of iraklion, of which spyros danellis was mayor.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the aim is to boost europe’s competitiveness by facilitating corporate restructuring and consolidation. i support the rapporteur’s position on the need to take into consideration additional harmonisation measures on takeover bids at eu level and giving strong rights to shareholders, including minority shareholders. restructuring has had very negative affects on wales in the past. i want to ensure that the needs of communities and the economy are considered in future.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which points out that workers’ rights must be upheld throughout the takeover process.
in writing. − i support the need for clearer eu legislation on workers’ rights and representation in takeover bids.
mr president, the idea of these regional and solidarity payments is to level everybody up to the same degree. of course, if we look around europe we find it has had precisely the opposite effect. the areas which have had the biggest per-capita-gdp handouts have remained stuck in the squalor of dependency. like individuals, entire nations can begin to arrange their affairs around qualifying for subsidies. the great fallacy behind the european project is the idea that you should be part of a big, uniform unit. it sounds plausible but it turns out not to be true. if it were true then china would be wealthier than hong kong and indonesia would be wealthier than singapore, and the eu, for that matter, would be wealthier than switzerland. the truth is that we should be lithe and subtle, agile and small: that is what the world today rewards. instead, the european union is bloated and obese, its arteries are furred and its heart is on the point of giving out.
mr president, all countries face this challenge, but when all the old industries die, how do they meet the challenge to make sure they create jobs in the newer industries, such as technology, retail and services industries? it is all very well us having this discussion in the european parliament at a top-down level, but sometimes you have to look at the policies in individual countries. let me just give you one example. last year i was invited to italy to speak at a conference on reindustrialisation, and the reason this conference was held was because the british gas group had spent eur 250 million and 11 years on a project in brindisi to try and build a liquefied natural gas terminal, and after 11 years of bureaucracy, it simply gave up. my local italian hosts were aghast. they said, ‘what is it about our country that we have stopped this investment that would have created jobs?’ i think that is the question you have to ask. not here in the european parliament, but in all regions and towns and cities. if you want to encourage investment in jobs, make sure you have politicians in place who are open to business and are not protectionist.
in writing. − i abstained from voting as, in wales especially, we do not need new eu strategy guidelines in order to improve and better shape our industrial areas – in fact, we would be much better off without eu restrictions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on regional strategies for industrial areas in the eu, as i agree that there is a need for public participation, a place-based approach, adaptation of skills for sustainable jobs, and responsibility of public and private bodies to provide for a healthy environment. this initiative gained experience from areas such as manchester, lille and the basque country – areas that share with wales a heritage of heavy industry. i also believe that we would benefit from a decentralised regional strategy, as the welsh national interest is very often different to that of the uk’s as a whole.
in writing. − i was delighted to see that this report specifically mentions glasgow and highlights the success of its year as european capital of culture. glasgow is a colossus in scotland’s cultural scene and remains an important european hub. scotland as a whole contributes much to european culture and gains much in return. whilst events elsewhere in the uk show people turning their backs on the eu, i remain convinced that the people of scotland will choose to remain within the eu – as an independent nation.
in writing. − i supported this report. although the industrial sector in the eu has declined in the last 50 years, european industry still amounts to approximately 16% of the eu’s gdp. however, due to the decline of many traditional industries, such as coal, steel, textiles or machinery, which contributed to prosperity of many regions over several decades, a number of regions in the european union face similar problems today. many regions in the european union are, therefore, dependent on european funding as a support for the reconversion and restructuring of their old industrialised areas. in this context, it becomes manifest that, against the backdrop of the financial and economic crisis, the high ambitions of eu industrial policy and of the eu2020 strategy cannot be delivered by the sectoral policies alone – support from cohesion policy measures has become increasingly important.
in writing. i voted for this regional strategy for industrial areas in the eu because it gives hope to many regions suffering from deindustrialisation. this report, which, together with the europe 2020 strategy, aims to promote the industrial conversion of the regions most affected by the economic crisis, has particularly struck me because it provides concrete elements to enable the economic growth and job creation that europe needs to maintain its role as an industrial continent.
in writing. − the report on regional strategies for industrial areas in the european union highlights a fundamental need to get our economies moving again. european industry amounts to 16 % of eu gdp and it is therefore vital we revitalise this sector if europe is to pull itself out of the current economic difficulties. europe needs to be at the forefront of modern industrial development and it needs to be competitive. i voted for this report because it recognises that the amount allocated to regions like northern ireland is not the sole imperative. it acknowledges that an effective policy framework is needed which focuses on competitiveness. if businesses are to flourish, a business-friendly tax regime is needed to encourage investment. the report also promotes ‘smart specialisation’– it calls for industrial areas to focus on their natural and man-made assets before funding is applied. it also promotes a modern industrial strategy, moving away from subsidy and instead, through the use of structural funds, aims to cultivate a favourable business culture and an entrepreneurial spirit amongst young people. it is vital we encourage an innovative spirit in young people and i know these measures can be of great benefit to northern ireland.
in writing. − deindustrialisation has sadly been the key economic theme in western europe over the past forty years. this report seeks to offer recommendations regarding cohesion policy and how it could best assist the process of regeneration. i am particularly pleased to note that the report goes beyond looking at the problem in terms of funding and instead stresses the need for a greater push on competitiveness. there is an emphasis on the need to support sectors such as research and innovation, the digital economy, as well as the cultural and creative industries. london has been hugely successful in adapting its economy to these areas, providing thousands of much needed jobs, and i welcome the call to support this. the report does, however, suggest that the optimal way of meeting this challenge would be via the development of eu-level employment strategies. i do not believe that this would offer the required solution and could have the potential to damage competitiveness rather than improve it. whilst the report offers some valuable insights, on balance i am unable to support its recommendations.
in writing. − i welcome this own-initiative report, which highlights the main challenges facing the eu’s former industrial regions and looks at how eu cohesion policy can support the future development and structural transformation of the old industrial regions. this report looks at some ideas on how to overcome specific challenges and obstacles that these areas face, especially during this ongoing financial and economic crisis. aligning the eu’s industrial policy with the europe 2020 strategy is hugely important and cohesion policy measures could help achieve this. industrial regeneration is something that is very important to my constituency, wales, and i believe harnessing the potential of the eu’s industrial sector to encourage job creation and growth and to promote innovation is crucial.
mr president, i welcome the majority vote for this package on regulating the offshore oil and gas sector. i am delighted that the moratorium amendments were rejected by parliament as they would do immense damage to the industry in scotland. oil and gas industries are an essential part of the scottish economy, but we know to our cost that exploration is not without its risks. in the uk, since piper alpha, we now have one of the toughest safety regimes in the world. the real changes which had been proposed by the european commission could have undermined the system we already have in place, and that would have been unacceptable in my view. uk meps have made clear since the start of this process that what we need to see from the rest of the eu is action to bring other countries up to the high standards we have set at home as a result of that piper alpha disaster. imposing new rules from brussels would have meant breaking down the established safguards and starting again. the vote today is a victory for common sense which will help ensure that safety standards are raised around europe.
mr president, in a speech as prime minister before the french national assembly, tony blair once recalled his experience as a waiter in paris. there had apparently been a deal among all the waiters that they would put their tips collectively into a single pot and at the end of the week they would share the money out equally. several weeks went by before he realised that he was the only person putting his tips into the collective pot and, as he told the assembly to the delight of the right and the horror of the left, it was his first experience of socialism. he might have added that it was his first experience of european integration. with energy policy, we can see coming up all of the worst aspects of the common fisheries policy. the essential flaw of common ownership is that nobody has an incentive to treat the resource as renewable. under the cfp, the united kingdom puts in 70% of the fish stocks but gets a quota equivalent to 25% by volume or 15% by value. now the same thing is happening with our offshore energy. we are one of the few countries in the eu which is not reliant on imports and yet we face these attempts at harmonisation. imagine the french allowing wine to be treated as a common resource, or the germans allowing cars to be treated as a common resource. these things have nothing to do with brussels.
mr president, i think we can all agree on the need for better safety, particularly in offshore production and exploration activities, but it is very important that we get the rules right for those that work on these facilities. it was quite interesting that at the beginning of this debate they were looking, as my colleague said previously, for a one-size-fits-all european solution. this would actually have been disastrous for the british offshore exploration industry, because what would have happened was that all those high level standards that we had would have been thrown out and we would have had to bring in another set of rules – which may well have achieved the same thing but at a much greater cost. thank goodness common sense has prevailed and we have more flexibility in that way, but we still have to be concerned here about this approach of one-size-fits-all. let us look at outcomes. at the end of the day we have safety, whether it is done at a common european level or at national level. surely the goal is safety and exploration.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it creates more restrictions on top of the existing safeguards, which are already adequate.
in writing. − i voted against this report. it is true that some legislation on offshore oil and gas is better than none, but this report does not go anywhere near as far as it should in order to ensure the safety of people and the environment. my constituents in wales were deeply concerned by the deepwater horizon disaster and we need to make sure that effective legislation is put in place.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this text and against the amendments tabled by my own group colleagues. the eu has a legitimate interest in health, safety and environmental issues relating to the oil and gas industry – but oil and gas remain member state resources and this house has no right to dictate to individual nations where they can and cannot exploit those resources.
in writing. − i welcome this report. 25 years after the piper alpha disaster in the north sea there is still a need to improve and enhance safety on offshore oil and gas installations.
in writing. − i support this directive rather as i feel that this package of rules will ensure and cover the safety of scotland’s and europe’s offshore oil and gas sector workers.
in writing. − the devastating oil spill off the gulf of mexico in 2010 had particular resonance with many of my london constituents, with british petroleum’s international headquarters standing tall in st james’ square, london. this recent environmental tragedy undoubtedly highlighted the need for a review of the eu’s existing framework for offshore oil safety. however, the consequent legislative proposals called for a regulation rather than a directive, something which i strongly opposed based on the negative consequences this would have had on the uk’s safety regime. a regulation would have forced the uk to immediately repeal its established and world-renowned safety system, replacing it with the new eu standards. this would have had disastrous cost implications for the industry and crucially, it would have taken safety officials offsite while they underwent the lengthy process of transposing the legislation into uk law. i was therefore delighted that due to successful pressure from my fellow conservative meps, parliament has adopted a strong stance in favour of a directive. i firmly believe that this directive is a positive step for both oil safety and the environment.
in writing. − this legislative report aims to improve the safety of offshore oil and gas platforms and comes as a response to the european parliament’s call for action following the catastrophic explosion and oil spill at the deepwater horizon rig in the gulf of mexico. the rig was carrying out ultra-deepwater, offshore oil drilling and the incident raised a number of concerns about the safety of such activities. under this directive, licences for drilling will only be granted to companies who can demonstrate that they have enough money to repair any environmental damage. i am also pleased to see that proposals put forward by labour meps on workers’ rights and the involvement of trade union safety representatives have been included in the final report. labour meps were pleased with the decision to make this legislation a directive, as a regulation might have undermined the already strong rules on safety standards enforced by the uk for north sea operations.
mr president, this is yet another of those areas where, when you talk about the need for renewable energy – clean, sustainable energy for the future – many people across the political spectrum would agree it is a good thing in itself, whether or not one’s position on climate change is sceptical or in favour of it. but the important thing to do is to make sure that we deliver it in a way that is also sustainable for our economies. one of the things many people worry about is this need for binding targets. binding targets may sound wonderful in themselves but actually, if all they achieve at the end of the day is the de-industrialisation of europe and the loss of jobs in our constitutencies, how is that sustainable in the long term? secondly, can we please make sure we have some joined-up thinking? it is all very well asking for diversity in energy supplies here in parliament and in the commission, but what does the commission do for solar panels from china? it slaps a massive import tariff, making solar panels more expensive and delaying the day when people will adapt and take up clean, sustainable solar energy. please can we have some joined-up thinking, then maybe we can have a cleaner future.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i do not believe that the eu should be allowed to plan out the future of energy supplies in the uk, or indeed in other member states.
in writing. − the ecr members believe that renewable energy sources can contribute to our goals of energy security and diversification, as well as contributing to emissions reduction targets. we do not support calls for an eu-wide support system for renewables as there are serious unanswered questions concerning the financing and organisation of an eu-wide scheme. most importantly, article 194 tfeu enshrines a member state’s right to determine its own energy mix, therefore we cannot support calls for further binding renewable energy targets at eu level that would encroach upon this right. it is also not prudent to commit ourselves legally to a renewable energy target where the investment costs – and, most importantly, the costs for consumers – are unclear and not credible. since amendments calling for the introduction of mandatory renewable energy targets have been adopted, the ecr members voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it rejects calls by greens/efa members to adopt a 40-45 % renewable energy target for 2030. it is clear that we cannot continue to use fossil fuels in the way that we have been and we must combat the problem of global warming and climate change by setting serious goals with regard to renewable energy. not only will the use of renewable energy help the environment, but investing in renewables will create jobs and boost the economy. plaid cymru’s policy for a national powerhouse for green energy would enable this to happen.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mandatory eu targets for 2030. scotland has some of the most ambitious climate change legislation in the world, but tackling climate change is clearly something that cannot be dealt with on a purely national basis. eu targets are appropriate and necessary and i know that scotland will play a full role in achieving them.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘emphasises that safe, secure, affordable and sustainable energy provision is indispensable for the competitiveness of european industry and the economy; emphasises that approximately half of the power plants in the eu need to be replaced in the coming decade and that the energy supply system needs to be modernised and made more flexible to accommodate the expected growing share of res; highlights that the share of res in electricity, heating and cooling and transport needs to be increased in a manner that is cost-efficient, taking into account the benefits and full costs of res, including system costs, while safeguarding supply security; acknowledges the increasing competitiveness of renewable energy technologies and stresses that res and clean-tech related industries are important growth drivers for europe’s competitiveness, representing an enormous job creation potential and making an important contribution to the development of new industries and export markets’.
in writing. − it is absolutely vital for my constituents in london that a binding 2030 target for renewables in the energy mix of between 40 % and 45 % was retained in this report. london suffers from some of the worst air quality of european cities, and urgent action at eu level is needed to combat this, which is why i supported mr. lange’s amendment from the floor.
in writing. − i support this as i feel it is now vital to emphasise and support energy technology and renewable energy.
in writing. − the north sea, connected to the historic thames river in my london constituency, is a prime example of the benefits that regional cooperation can have in relation to renewable energy supplies. however, while this report justly recognises the importance of the continued diversification of energy supplies in order to enhance our energy security, i strongly reject the amendments calling for the introduction of mandatory national targets for 2030. primarily, i rebuff these amendments on the basis that price competition is fundamental to a well-functioning energy market and an eu-wide support system for renewable energy would undoubtedly jeopardise this. ultimately, i do not believe that the introduction of mandatory national targets would be the best way of facilitating a european low-carbon economy while keeping industry costs at sustainable levels.
in writing. − i supported this own initiative report as i believe that renewable energy has an important role to play in the eu’s internal energy market. it is also key to securing energy supplies and competitiveness, and it goes without saying that renewable energy is vital if we are to meet environmental targets. i supported an amendment put down by labour meps for the commission to come forward with a binding renewable energy target by 2030 and i pleased that meps supported this. renewable energy can also help us to create jobs and growth in the eu and by carrying out more research we will be able to create industrial development, more advanced technology and as a result, job creation.
in writing. − this own initiative report looks at the challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the eu’s internal energy market and calls for more investment to ensure that we have the technology and infrastructure to ensure renewable energy can play an increasing role in supplying the eu’s energy needs. labour meps and our colleagues in the parliament have led the call for binding 2030 renewable energy targets and i am delighted that the amendment we supported has been included in the final report. i hope the commission will take notice of the opinion of meps, who have recognised that investment in renewable energy has the potential to protect the environment, generate jobs and growth in europe and ensure the eu’s continued energy security.
mr president, i supported elements of this report which dealt with domestic violence, lgbt rights and human trafficking. whilst things are improving in the balkans, the record on violence against women remains alarming: 204 women died in croatia in 2001 as a result of domestic violence, a quarter of women in montenegro claim to suffer physical abuse by their partners, and the serbian police filed almost 3 000 criminal reports of violence against women last year. on lgbt rights the record is also worrying. lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people still face discrimination and threats throughout the balkans. a number of countries have weak anti-discrimination legislation. serbia has repeatedly banned gay pride marches, and kosovo and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are, according to ilga europe (the european region of the international lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex association), two of the worst places in europe in which to be gay. on trafficking, 30% of victims of cross-border human trafficking in the eu are nationals of balkan countries. in spite of the report’s positive elements, i cannot support proposals to introduce quotas for women. quotas in public life and in business are counterproductive. furthermore, it is not parliament’s place to introduce quotas in candidate and accession countries.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case as while i understand the huge importance of women’s rights, i do not believe that it is the eu’s place to interfere in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to make concrete calls on balkan countries to adapt their laws, policies and/or institutional framework in terms of gender equality. the report sets out some key points regarding the under-representation of women, the gender pay gap, combating discrimination, access to justice for women victims of war crimes. i believe that this report will help achieve the equality that we strive for in wales and across the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which ‘notes with concern that women’s employment rates in the western balkan countries remain very low; points out that supporting equal opportunities policies is important for the economic and social development of the balkan accession countries; calls on the governments to introduce measures in order to reduce the gender pay gap and, consequently, the gender pension gap and to tackle high unemployment rates, focusing in particular on women, especially those in rural areas; invites the governments of the countries in the balkans to establish a legal framework for equal pay for equal work for both sexes, to assist women in reconciling private and professional life, to secure better working conditions, lifelong learning, flexible work schedules and in addition to create an environment which stimulates female entrepreneurship’.
in writing. − i support women’s equality in every member state and welcome greater female representation.
in writing. − as a long-standing supporter of eu enlargement in the balkans, and the social and economic development of those countries, i welcome marije cornelissen’s report into women’s rights in the accession countries. gender equality should be a prerequisite for eu admission, and therefore it is in these countries’ immediate political interests to take the issue seriously, but more broadly we should always be pushing for greater women’s rights, inside and outside the eu. the report is therefore a timely reminder of some of the deep-seated challenges which remain, in particular regarding human trafficking. this is a real problem in my constituency of london, where last year the metropolitan police trafficked victims unit dealt with 147 victims and undertook 91 police operations. it is extremely alarming that 30 % of the victims of cross-border trafficking in humans in the eu are nationals of balkan countries. but this is an area where the eu can really make a difference, and i strongly believe that we should continue to press for the improvement of women’s rights as part of the accession process.
mr president, in the uk we are in the middle of a long debate on media freedom. phone-hacking intrusion and false accusations by journalists have ruined people’s lives. we must ensure that the media meet a higher standard. the challenge is how to deliver press regulation which supports a free press and free speech, while protecting the vulnerable and the innocent. i agree with david cameron’s proposal for self-regulation with a minimum of interference from legislation. on that basis, i cannot support any extra interference by the european union. the eu should resist the temptation to introduce overly complicated and inflexible legislation which would impede, rather than enhance, freedom of the press.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i do not believe that the eu should be able to exercise control over the media in all member states – this would be hugely damaging to both a free press and freedom of speech.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which underlines the importance and urgency of annually monitoring media freedom and pluralism in all member states. it also asks that member states report on a yearly basis on the matter of media freedom, in liaison with all stakeholders, both institutional and others. freedom of the press should be a right. i know my constituents in wales feel strongly about this.
in writing. − it is appropriate that we are voting on media freedom on the day that the bbc has announced gbp 5 million extra funding for coverage of scotland’s independence referendum. this report highlights the fundamental importance of a free media in any democracy and the gbp 5 million boost must be used to enhance scotland’s democratic process. this will require the bbc to offer a balanced approach to the independence debate – and not to regard itself as a guardian of the british state.
in writing. − the uk conservatives strongly support the freedom, pluralism, and effective and independent oversight of the media. we believe that freedom of speech and expression, as well as a press which is responsible and lawful, is a cornerstone of any democratic society. however, we do not believe that member states’ media and press should be over-regulated at european union level.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, which ‘calls on the member states and the european union to respect, guarantee, protect and promote the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information, as well as media freedom and pluralism, and hence to refrain from exerting, and to develop or support mechanisms to impede, threats to media freedom such as trying to unduly and politically influence or pressure and impose partisan control and censorship on the media, limit or wrongfully restrict the freedom and independence of the mass media in the service of private or political interests, or threaten public service broadcasters financially’.
in writing. − given the wider debate in the uk on media pluralism and media freedom and the findings of the leveson inquiry, i support media pluralism across the eu and avoiding dominant positions in the media market.
in writing. − the ecr group agrees that taxation policy within member states can be used to stimulate the growth potential in the still-in-crisis eu. we also agree that in order to achieve economic balance it is necessary to implement growth-conducive measures such as viable tax stimulus for both self-employed persons and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), especially with the aim of promoting innovation and r&d activities. the ecr concurs that when developing tax policy, the principles of subsidiarity and multi-level governance should be fully taken into account in line with the relevant legislation of the member states. moreover, we consider it useful to create an eu-wide tax information system to facilitate coordination between member states and foster good tax governance through transparency by keeping track of the cuts and increases made within each member state. however, we disagree with the inclusion of the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) in this report and the request for eu own resources and have therefore voted against paragraph 20 and 9 and abstained on the final report.
in writing. − in light of the uk’s recent hacking scandal and the consequent leveson inquiry into media freedom and regulation, the standard of media pluralism across the eu is particularly poignant to me as a london mep. this report calls for a review and an expansion of the audiovisual media services directive and while i support the high standards of media freedom that it ultimately promotes, i believe that the proposed review should focus on ensuring the consistent and effective implementation of the existing directive, rather than dispensing significant new powers to the eu in this area. while ever there is the unfortunate evidence that even within the eu, the basic right of media freedom is not uniformly respected, it is clear that robust monitoring and enforcement, as suggested by this report, is vital. however, we must focus on the task in hand and it is my firm belief that we must consolidate the existing directive through ensuring its consistent implementation, rather than rushing to extend the influence of the audiovisual media services directive.
in writing. − given the recent threats to media freedom in certain member states, i fully support the recommendations in this report, which calls on the commission to monitor the status of media freedom across the eu on an annual basis. the commission should work with individual member states to improve national laws regulating journalistic freedom and designed to prevent intimidation of the press. journalists should have the right to operate without pressure from owners, publishers or political lobbies; an ethical, independent press is a good indicator of a healthy, robust democracy. avoiding monopolies of ownership is of particular significance in the uk, particularly in the light of the leveson inquiry, so it is extremely important that member states avoid dominant positions in the media market and promote pluralism at all times.
in writing. − i voted against his report as there is no way that the eu should be allowed to have any control over british citizens’ pensions.
in writing. − i abstained on this report. it contains some good points on protecting the most vulnerable but it favours the extension of funded pensions, which are available only to those who are in a position to save money and not to the poorest. i want to make sure that pension packages are suitable for all my constituents in wales.
in writing. − i welcome this report. the european agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions for both young and old which is presented in the white paper is an excellent starting point for discussion, after which reforms can be implemented by means of ‘soft law’, and also by means of legislation where necessary. overall, while recognising and preserving the responsibilities of member states and social partners, we now need to build up systems which are adequate, secure and durable. in addition to that, those systems must also contribute to greater labour market mobility and freedom of movement, and provide solutions for today and tomorrow.
in writing. − with an ageing population, i support proposals aimed at looking at innovative ways of saving for a pension both at member state level and at eu level.
in writing. − i believe it is important to deal with the challenges of an ageing european population, particularly in this period of economic crisis. the fact that life expectancy is increasing and birth rates are falling means that european demography is changing; over 36% of the population are over the age of 55. this report emphasises the need for a multi-pillar pension approach, calling for a combination of public pensions, complementary pensions and private pensions. i agree that due to the crisis, public pension schemes have been hard hit. i echo the rapporteur’s calls for pension schemes to guarantee decent living standards and to make sure pensioners are not pushed into poverty as a result of the crisis, and i call on the commission to look seriously at this issue without delay.
in writing. − the recent eu ban on olive oil jugs and dipping bowls shows how out of touch and discredited the european union is. it also shows how wasteful the eu is with its time and efforts, by interfering in areas in which it has no business. state pensions are an area in which the eu has no competence. and given the mess that the eu is making of the so-called solvency ii proposals, which are affecting private pensions, it ought not to be interfering in financial services either. the european union needs to understand the limits of its competences. it needs to stop putting forward unnecessary – and in some cases downright silly – proposals which only serve to further alienate the general public at a time when trust in the eu is at an all time low. instead of telling people how to eat their olive oil, the eu might do better by buttering up its citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. − madam president, the committee on constitutional affairs welcomes, of course, the improved system of economic governance that these reports represent, including their constitutional experiments. this is good progress, but we also now need to make it clear that parliament is keen to consolidate and to codify through proper treaty revision the crisis management measures taken since 2008. this process must not mean more surgical strikes at the union treaty, an approach which unfortunately seems to be all the rage at present in berlin. still less do we want to see experiments on the outside of the union framework, such as the fiscal compact treaty. what we need is a radical and comprehensive reform of the economic and monetary union structure of maastricht and the installation of a fiscal union via the process of a full-blooded constitutional convention that should start in the spring of 2015. see you there. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – frankly i believe we are now stretching the treaty of lisbon to breaking point. i think that in practice, the bailouts and bail-ins have already found the frontiers of the lisbon treaty and if we are to go further to deepen fiscal integration, then we have to square up courageously and skilfully to the creation of a fiscal union managed by a proper federal economic government. at the heart of that process is the transformation of the commission into a proper government. from that, all else flows.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs thyssen and mr giegold, for their excellent work over the past few months. the agreement to establish the single supervisory mechanism and the accompanying adjustments to the european banking authority are seminal. they set in place, within the current eu treaty, a mechanism for a multispeed europe. the eurozone can push ahead with the more integrated system that they have agreed is necessary to support the single currency, whilst those members who have signed up to join the euro have been accommodated in a voluntary system that they can choose to join when they deem it suitable for their individual situations and, importantly, the rights of those outside the euro are preserved by a new dual voting system which requires a simple majority of those participants inside the single supervisory mechanism and a separate simple majority of those member states who choose to remain outside it. most fundamentally, these two simple majority votes must come together to form one qualified majority vote overall, so that the european single market is protected. this agreement sets a template for exactly how a renegotiated european union could work: a european union that recognises that all member states are different, both economically and culturally, yet can still work together to achieve an overall outcome that everyone can be comfortable with. the city of london is the jewel of the single market, with the financial services it provides being of benefit not just to the uk but to the entire eu. ensuring continued participation within the single market on equitable terms that allow a global financial centre to operate is of the utmost importance to all companies and individuals within the european union. it is in no one’s interest for their activity to move outside europe. at the beginning of this mandate, a new financial system for financial regulation across europe was set up, in the form of the european supervisory bodies. these institutions were tasked with providing technical input and drafting the details of legislation as part of the codecision process, creating a single rule book, so that banks and financial service companies across europe face a level playing field in financial regulation and a company in ljubljana or in cardiff has as much access to finance as a company in frankfurt, london or paris. preserving that single rule book approach in an environment which has caused many financial supervisors to look inwards is going to be a difficult task in the coming years. the ecb is entering new territory, with new supervisory powers directly over banks, a situation not dissimilar to the bank of england with its new prudential supervisory powers. however, the outstanding issue, i believe, that we have still not adequately solved in these reports is finding a way for the european central bank to maintain its independence in monetary policy yet still be accountable for its supervisory decisions to national and supranational parliaments. no financial supervisor can ever operate outside of the public interest, which is best represented by democratically elected parliaments. when there are mis-selling scandals which affect thousands of constituents, the relevant financial supervisor needs to be held to account publicly. when a criminal investigation of systemic proportions is undertaken affecting many banks, the authorities need to explain publicly and demonstrate that suitable remedies and possible sanctions will be applied. independence from political int ... (the president cuts off the speaker)
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, commissioner, i rise again, i am afraid, to make the same old hoary speech that i have been making here for several years. that is: it is my opinion that you do not really understand the concept of banking. all the banks are broke. bank santander, deutsche bank, royal bank of scotland: they are all broke. and why are they broke? it is not an act of god; it is not some sort of tsunami. they are broke because we have a system called fractional reserve banking, which means that banks can lend money that they do not actually have. it is a criminal scandal and it has been going on for too long. to add to that problem you have moral hazard – a very significant moral hazard – from the political sphere, and most of the problems start in politics and central banks, which are part of the same political system. we have counterfeiting, sometimes called quantitative easing, but counterfeiting by any other name – the artificial printing of money for which, if any ordinary person did it, they would be sent to prison for a very long time. yet governments and central banks do it all the time. central banks repress the amount of interest rates so we do not have the real cost of money, and yet we blame the retail banks for manipulating the libor rate. the sheer effrontery of this is quite astonishing. it is central banks that manipulate interest rates, commissioner. plus, underneath all this, we talk loosely – in a rather cavalier fashion, do we not – about deposit guarantees. so when banks go broke through their own incompetence and chicanery, the taxpayer picks up the tab. it is theft from the taxpayer. until we start sending bankers – and i include central bankers and politicians – to prison for this outrage, it will continue.
madam president, these are the first step on banking union. we know the theory: there is supposed to be a severance of the ‘doom loop’ between banks and sovereigns. but that cannot come from european central bank supervision alone – and with regard to the link between ecb supervision, recapitalisation and the european stability mechanism (esm), the goalposts keep on moving. nevertheless, we have the prospect of ecb supervision and the expectation that this will promote market confidence. to justify that expectation there is a place for stress tests and assessment of asset impairment. however, while supervision may restore market confidence, it cannot resolve bad loans currently on banks’ books. turning to what supervision by the ecb means in democratic terms, i refer to the comment by marco buti, the directorate-general for economic and financial affairs (dg ecfin), made at the blueprint conference, that giving banking supervision to the eu is an even greater handing-over of sovereignty than joining the euro. this can be nuanced, but make no mistake: it is a huge step. for that reason, the european parliament has written in as many accountability steps as possible, including for national parliaments. negotiation of an agreement with the ecb, covering issues of disclosure, a code of conduct, inquiries and appointment procedures for the supervisory chair, is under way and is part of the package. that is why there will be no final vote until there is demonstrable agreement. the ecb has also been given a duty of care for the single market. following the tacit acceptance of a raid on insured deposits and the subsequent shaming of the troika for it, i hope that all eu institutions have learnt the lesson that they must have the courage of their convictions about the single market, even in the face of difficulties. the single market requirements also mean that the european banking authority (eba) is even more important. voting arrangements have been balanced for now, and it is time for the eba to prove its strength – as i believe it can. an eu-wide supervisory rule book and handbook are important, and it is sad that they have been written out of some of the proposals recently.
mr president, the move towards a europe-wide banking union has been described as one which will restore confidence in the eurozone banks, ensure the long-term validity and reliability of the banking sector and remedy the current financial crisis. if i truly believed that it could, and indeed would, actually achieve these things, i would say: by all means, go ahead and proceed towards this union. however, i ask that my fellow meps remove their rose-tinted spectacles for a moment and see the proposed banking union for what it truly is: yet another futile attempt by the eu to clear up or indeed cover up a mess that it partly created in the first place. this proposed banking union represents a single one-size-fits-all approach that does not show the slightest regard for the hugely complex nature of the financial crisis we currently find ourselves in. a single rule book that is to be applied across all financial services is simply not the answer here, and as for the suggestion that achieving a banking union will strengthen the single market, why on earth would you want to strengthen a market that (1) does not make economic sense for the uk or, indeed, several other member states, and that (2) has been the root cause of so many problems in europe in recent times, not least the horsemeat scandal? we do not want a single market, neither do we want membership of a political union or to participate in a banking one.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner: cher michel, you are not the problem. i do not think the commission is the problem. you are absolutely committed to achieving this change on behalf of people who – unimaginably – are shut out of the great worlds of shakespeare, dostoevsky and hugo. all we need is a real commitment from the council and the commission. therefore, commissioner, will you and the member states now accept the call of blind people’s organisations to remove – i repeat, remove – from articles d and e of the draft treaty wording which requires checks on the commercial availability of books in accessible formats to be made as a prerequisite for the cross-border sending of accessible books? if you will agree to removing that wording, we will get an agreement that serves the needs of the people who are most in need – people who are currently shut out of the great cultures and the great literatures not only of europe, but the world.
mr president, the world blind union and the european blind union have made it very clear that for the treaty to work in practice for blind and print-disabled people, it needs to permit the sending of accessible books across international borders directly to individuals, as well as to organisations serving blind people. there are indeed already organisations which send accessible-format books directly to disabled people in other countries in a limited way – limited, that is, by outdated copyright law that this treaty, if concluded next month, would modernise. for instance, the us not-for-profit organisation bookshare securely serves blind people in the uk who register with proof of their disability and who enter a pass code before downloading an accessible digital book they wish to read. however, bookshare usa needs the treaty to allow delivery to individual print-disabled people before it can open the more than 100 000 titles it holds to uk subscribers. to date, the council and commission negotiators have consistently opposed the clause in article d(2)(b) which would allow the sending of accessible books to individuals. will the council and commission now finally agree with the european and world blind union that the treaty must allow international distribution of accessible books to individuals and support article d(2)(b) without caveats in the marrakesh negotiations?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, today we are heading towards the end of a parliamentary term and also towards the end of the parliament’s first term with new powers in the fields of justice and home affairs. there have been successes and failings, and my opinion has not changed: i still believe that we should seek to do less, but to do it better. good examples of that work include the work on cybercrime and in relation to unaccompanied minors, which is becoming a considerable problem throughout europe. we should be ambitious but realistic in what we can achieve. i would urge the commission and parliament to focus on where we can contribute most and where we can add clarity and protection rather than complication. more compulsion, solidarity and harmonisation is not always better, while with better trust, cooperation and efficiency – and with the commission ensuring strong implementation and consistency – we will create a system which respects member states’ legal differences while ensuring effective outcomes. a fully-harmonised criminal system and a european prosecutor is simply not the right solution. it is difficult to reflect on our work under stockholm so far: over three years without any review or evaluation. we can achieve the best future outcome through good cooperation and communication between institutions. the much-needed review, however, is absent. in this light i would ask the commission now to assess the stockholm programme’s successes and also its failings so that we can move forward together constructively but not blindly. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – thank you very much for giving way. mr kirkhope, do you consider that the uk should opt out of the european arrest warrant when it has a chance to do so next year, or not?
blue-card answer. – thank you, my lord, for that most interesting question. the united kingdom will of course assess the position regarding all matters, including the position of the european arrest warrant, the benefits and the disadvantages of that warrant, and the need for its reform. i think there are many other people in this house who would also agree with us that reform is necessary, but certainly without calculating the full effects on our people – the citizens of britain and well as the citizens of the rest of europe – it is impossible at this point to give a clear indication of what we may do in future on that matter.
mr president, the lesson we are learning from many of the speeches today in the chamber in relation to the stockholm programme and in the debate yesterday, for example on the oral question in relation to voluntary permanent settlement of asylum seekers, is that with codecision and the extra powers that we have had since lisbon, the stockholm programme is rapidly showing us that there is a real imbalance between the inertia of the council and the willingness of parliament – the people in this chamber – and the commission to do things. we see that repeatedly. this is now the common denominator of so many of the essential files we have on the table and so many of the problems we have with implementation. that inertia was obvious yesterday, when only seven member states were willing to deal with the emergencies we see with asylum problems. some member states are burdened and others are perhaps willing to take some asylum seekers, but we have no proposals on the table. if this is the common denominator then we have to unplug these difficulties. that is the problem underlying so many of our issues here, but that does not mean that we have not made progress. through determination we have made progress on victims of crime and human trafficking in trying to complete the common asylum system. this has all been done through determination, and this mid-term review should recognise all those advances. but also in the stockholm programme we should realise that, with the tools we have, we should attack the difficult problems. for example, we said we would address legal migration and, of course, one of the only files left – intra-corporate transferees and seasonal workers – involves dealing with some of the difficult files in the midst of austerity, and that will be very tough. it is important that we make progress and recognise in this mid-term review that we have that task, but also that we make progress on procedural rights, data protection and other areas. it is important in this mid-term review that we are honest.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would just like to say that ms sommer once again completely misrepresents the position of the rapporteur and indeed the majority of this house. to the commissioner i would say that i welcome what he says. he is not in charge of the dossier, but actually the recasting agreement was not followed by the commission, and this was pointed out by our committee. it was stated that efforts were supported in order for us to try and reach an agreement. i have to say that the efforts of the presidency and ourselves were completely undermined by the commission in their backstage workings, which misrepresented the position of parliament. i deeply regret that commissioner šefcovic is not present. he was also invited to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). he refused. i have to say that i begin to wonder whether he is actually in charge of the dossier or whether it has been passed to ms catherine day. but let us look at the reality. the commission has never presented any proposals, amendments or compromises during our trialogues, and its position was to simply sit and say ‘no’. so therefore i say to the commission: if this is not accurate, please publish and present the proposals you made. i am ready to publish parliament’s proposals and i am sure the danish presidency will do likewise, and i want to ask the commission what next steps they envisage should this deadlock continue. will they withdraw the regulation and allow the court of justice to do the work that we legislators should be doing for our citizens? the court of justice has reached several far-reaching and important judgments for the understanding of the new legal framework on access to documents created by the lisbon treaty, and even recently in its conclusions on the appeal on access information, the advocate-general brilliantly stated that legislating is by definition a law-making activity and that a democratic society can only function through the use of procedure. so we have the advocate-general siding with parliament: openness and transparency. of course we need to reach a compromise, but there are certain minimums that i cannot trade off. for instance, we need to extend the scope of the regulation to all institutions, offices, agencies and bodies. we need clarification that no member state veto exists. we need legislative transparency – no exceptions for certain kinds of legal advice. but for the rest, parliament is ready to find a compromise. we are ready to sit down. this house will draft a resolution for the june plenary, despite the efforts of ms sommer in opposing the debate that we are having tonight. we will put down what we believe is the way forward. let us work together to break this deadlock. but parliament cannot do it without the commission or the council, and should this deadlock remain, i tell you now that citizens will further disconnect from the european project. at a crucial time you will have failed europe and its founders. parliament will not be a part of such a damaging or reprehensible strategy.
mr president, i would like first of all to fully support our rapporteur michael cashman in his disappointment that the commissioner refused to come to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. it is for that reason we have asked for tonight’s debate so that we can get some answers as to how we can realistically progress with this dossier. tonight’s debate gives us the opportunity to once again publicly state our commitment to reaching an agreement on access to documents. despite continued disappointing setbacks, parliament adopted its first reading agreement in 2011. this dossier remains a priority for our group and we will continue to reiterate our insistence that the file be adopted before the end of this mandate in 2014. now, more than ever, we need to send a message that we believe in increased transparency, accountability and democracy for eu citizens. we are seeing a growing distrust in mainstream political parties and public institutions across europe. the continued delay with this legislative procedure has led to growing negative perceptions in relation to eu transparency rules. let us be reminded again that this file has been pending since 2008. our group wants clarification from both the commission and the council on the main obstacles that are preventing substantial progress. we want fresh information and any possible compromise or common denominators that are envisaged while at the same time taking into account the fact that we will not support any watering-down of key legislative areas. we want answers as to whether the commission is confident that we can achieve a compromise and, if not, what it intends to do in order to progress. i want to echo what my colleague michael cashman has said: that citizens have the right to make sure this parliament, as a democratically-elected institution, is held accountable for what we do in their name. the same goes for actions carried out by both the commission and council on their behalf. we are in a different age – an age of social media – where people demand to see what is going on. we are lagging behind with the delay on this file. the delay that we are seeing is something that needs to penetrate the minds of the commission and council, and they need to be aware of what is going on. for this reason, we fully support what our rapporteur is doing.
mr president, it is an extremely important point of order. given that parliament takes a completely different view of the role played by the commission in the negotiations under the danish presidency and the cypriot presidency, and that we are prepared to bring forward and publish our amendments and our proposals, will the commission publish its amendments and its proposals on drafting that it brought to the negotiations? they brought none, but if they wish to prove that the rapporteur has suddenly amnesia, will they publish them? the reason we are in an impasse is because the council needs to have its first reading. without its first reading we need the commission to either agree with us or withdraw its proposal. so the commission, i am afraid, is the problem.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in december 2011 i supported legislation which helps safeguard victims of stalking, harassment and domestic violence. the european protection order allowed victims of violence who had gained restraining orders in the uk or other countries to make these orders portable around the eu. i hope the epo will be a great success and will complement the victims’ rights package. one of the reasons for its success is that it is based on a system of mutual recognition and only deals with contraventions of member states’ own criminal law. while i fully support the rights of citizens, especially women, to have the same level of protect that they enjoy in their home country, i have concerns with the new proposals which introduce similar measures for civil law. we need to protect our citizens who are victims of crime, and that is why i can only support the european protection order, which deals with criminal offences. criminal offences are clear: they are a violation of the law of the member states’ statute book. introducing civil law measures is more problematic, and we must remember that, at least in the case of the united kingdom, our system of common law is distinct from civil law in the rest of europe. consequently, i am concerned that extending the epo to cover civil matters would lead to confusion. this confusion might lead to less protection. furthermore, in spite of my objections to this proposal, i cannot accept the principle of eu jurisdiction over civil law. i shall therefore be abstaining from the vote later today.
madam president, the substance of this proposal has every merit. people who have been subjected to domestic or other violence or harassment need to be protected wherever they happen to be – their home country, another eu member state or, for that matter, anywhere in the world. i would be happier with a worldwide treaty to which all well-meaning countries would freely subscribe, recognising protection orders from other countries. to have eu legislation suggests that people move between countries only within the eu. i do not favour eu legislation on principle, but i do accept that it is better for vulnerable people to be partially protected in a form that i do not favour than not to be protected at all. i do not want to facilitate movement of people in the eu, but i do want them to be protected when they do move. nevertheless, i cannot help feeling that sometimes, behind this apparently well-meaning legislation, some people are more interested in the extension of eu legislative competence than they are in the substantive issue.
author. − mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that this is the response of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) to the commission proposals on competitiveness and convergence instruments. first, we have made great progress on macroeconomic governance with the two-pack and the six-pack. there have also been steps on banking union which started hard on the heels of the six-pack. i know that ‘europe must keep pumping out ideas’ is a message which is pressed upon you. the econ delegation heard the same from the imf last year. the problem is that it undermines understanding of what we have already done and risks sending out a message of failure. we think it is time to prioritise full implementation of the eight-pack, that is the two- plus six-pack measures, before we obscure them with the next new idea, and clarity is needed on any added value in relation to existing measures. so we think that maybe it is time to give the gym a rest; an eight-pack in 18 months is pretty good going. a ten-pack might look a bit freaky. we remain concerned about prerogatives of both the european and national parliaments. a common theme in all the rhetoric is that ‘more europe’ is for the benefit of citizens. a common theme in all the parliament reports is that this has to be seen, understood and backed by inclusiveness, solidarity and accountability. however, we have had in many instances a lack of transparency, intergovernmentalism among selected states and brinkmanship that has left citizens behind. i know the commission hankers after the community method, not intergovernmentalism, and we support you in that, but adding yet another icing of procedures to an already very rich cake is not the way to connect with citizens. more specifically, the commission’s communication on ex ante coordination failed to clarify what would be the added value of the proposed innovation when we already have the eu 2020, the european semester and the euro+ pact, not to forget cohesion funds. in order to avoid increased confusion, econ has called for an inclusion of any new instrument firmly into the framework of the european semester. this would notably allow for proper transparency and parliamentary scrutiny over the process. the commission proposes to put in place contractual arrangements between the european and national level to incentivise the reform process at national level. we propose to have an eu level convergence code, detailing key reforms to be put in place in all member states, on the basis of which incentives would be allocated. we think this is better than contractual arrangements, which really do not have a place between the european and national level. rather we should seek cooperative processes. an increased budgetary capacity to tackle the immense structural issues we are faced with is welcome. the funds allocated to ccis could even be the embryo of a euro area budget which would surely help ease asymmetric shocks within the emu. but the communications are also interesting for what is not in them. what we did not see is a clear commitment to a more democratic europe. it is truly amazing, given what is all over the newspapers throughout europe about confidence in the eu, to see that the commission is planning to have cci funds outside the eu budget and devoid of any parliamentary scrutiny whatsoever. our resolution makes more detailed suggestions about how any new instrument – and that is an ‘if’ and ‘any’ rather than a definite – should be open to all member states – euro or not, programme or not, where necessary on a voluntary basis – that contribute to any new budgetary capacity. deeper integration of ex ante coordination and decision-making at european level must also be built on a solid layer of statistics. in particular, budgetary coordination within the union requires consolidated data on public accounts of the union, member states, and local and regional authorities, but the overriding message is that anything short of the full involvement of parliament as a legislative and budgetary authority is unacceptable.
mr president, my group will vote against this motion. not all members of the european union are in the euro area and in my own country it is very clear that we will not be joining the euro. i do believe in national sovereignty, therefore i do not think it is my place to tell euro area countries what to do. but there are moments in the euro area debates when the interests of non-euro area states are affected, and therefore speaking up becomes necessary. the motion calls for a convergence and competitiveness instrument, which sounds innocent but could lead to large transfers of taxpayers’ money from one country to another and establishing a totally new part of the eu budget. personally i cannot see why the citizens of the euro area would want to do this (and i wonder if they have even been asked), but i am concerned about the impact and the precedents this sets outside the euro area. under the mff process, unanimous consent is needed from all 27 national parliaments on eu budget setting every seven years. personally i think the eu budget is too large – and this parliament thinks it should get even bigger. so i am very glad that national parliaments have that opportunity every seven years to rein the big spenders back in. the resolution says in one place that it respects national sovereignty but then calls for a new budgetary mechanism under the community method and outside the mff ceilings, specifically to allow the european parliament budgetary authority. in layman’s terms i think this sets us on a slippery slope. it gives more powers to the european parliament to overrule national governments on eu spending and it is clear from current polling across the eu that citizens, and particularly those within the euro area, already feel they have lost control of their destiny. i think it is for national parliaments to decide on budgetary matters and the role of the european parliament must not be inflated.
mr president, the european response to the crisis, as is evident in this resolution, has been driven by a blinkered, ideological approach. instead of changing the failed ideology and the policy, we do the same thing over and over again and expect a different outcome. it is a definition of insanity, according to albert einstein. intensifying the obligation on member states to follow this failed ideological approach is a sure recipe for future disasters. where is the investment programme needed to create jobs and grow gdp? where is the write-down of toxic debt? why are the public still bearing the cost of the failure of banks? where is the recapitalisation of banks which was promised by the european stability mechanism? where is the lender of last resort, a role the ecb should fulfil? the eu’s approach is the worst of all worlds, wresting economic decision-making from countries without any transfer of wealth that might justify fiscal union. this is nothing more than economic illiteracy.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, my sincere apologies for not being on parade. it is quite unlike me. i do apologise for it and thank you for your courtesy. interesting, is it not, that one of the great political questions in the united kingdom when it comes to discussion of the euro is: cock-up or conspiracy. is it a cock-up or is it a conspiracy? we are still arguing about that in the pubs of england. we are not quite sure. it must be completely obvious to anybody with even the remotest bit of economic understanding that this common currency was doomed to failure from the outset if it was not accompanied by fiscal policy. it must have fiscal policy to have one currency and one interest rate. it comes with the package. it must be part of the same phenomenon. the conspiracies theorists say, ah: they knew that this would happen, that this would collapse and that this would bring grief to many countries unfortunate enough and stupid enough to be part of this common currency, and what will happen is, when it collapses – when it catches fire, when it all goes wrong – they can then (‘they’ being the conspirators) push through an undemocratic system of government on people, whether they like it or not. i think this is the first part of it. this is what we are looking at with this document. it is the first bit of an undemocratic procedure so we can cut ordinary voters – members of the electorate – out of the system. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – it depends on your perspective really, does it not? i would argue that there is no remit for a common fiscal policy. it has not been put to the people, either in a referendum or in any political way that i can see – certainly not in the united kingdom. in the united kingdom, as you know, we have been promised but denied in reality a referendum for many years. i can only speak for the united kingdom, but i would argue that there is no democratic remit for this and therefore you cannot push a common fiscal policy through. if you ask the people on the streets of rome or madrid, or lisbon or athens, i think you will get your answer.
madam president, i find it interesting when i listen to these debates. the house always seems to imagine that there is some huge tree with money on it and you just pick the money off. well, we have heard all about poverty, we have heard all about unemployment – all of it is true. perhaps you will bear with me while i explain why. we have a crazy system of both corporate and social welfare. it is a failed post-war experiment. we have a system in the united kingdom where we pay perfectly fit, healthy young men and women not to work. we import people from eastern europe to do that work. so we are pouring money into a complete dead-end of our economy and, in order to pay for it, we have to have things like 20% vat, monstrous income tax and monstrous national insurance, which actually hamstring the economy from recovering. the only way out of this terrible mess is growth, and we do just about everything we can possibly do here to stop the economy growing. if it is not social welfare, it is corporate welfare. we have a sort of crony capitalism. we do not have real capitalism; it is crony capitalism. i have got landowning friends in yorkshire, with 1 000 acres of mixed, who get gbp 100 000 a year and a single farm payment. they shove a couple of windmills on it and they are getting gbp 200 000 a year before they get out of bed. of course people are in food poverty with this crazy system. for goodness sake, get rid of regulation, get rid of tax and free the thing up from this stranglehold, this cancer in society of welfare and get our young people back to work.
in writing. – the european economic and social committee (eesc) has introduced a programme of measures here that it says will encourage social action, develop social governance and improve participation in the european project. this all sounds very impressive; however, i simply cannot help but see the measures outlined as yet another desperate attempt to clear up a european union-made mess. austerity and structural policies implemented here as part of the emu have clearly undermined both social and labour rights, and have not only resulted in an absolute failure in economic terms, but have also brought about catastrophic social and political results that impact on the eu as a whole. and what we see here is the classic eu reaction – throwing more hard-working taxpayers’ money at the problem in the vain hope that it will go away. i simply cannot stand by and allow uk citizens to fund a programme designed to repair and assist the development of the emu, a structure that has proved nothing but damaging – economically, politically and socially – to them to date.
madam president, no one denies that well-funded companies and wealthy investors may be trying to avoid tax. the tax avoiders are mostly in europe, america or other developed countries. however, when we talk about tax havens, they are mostly in small jurisdictions outside of those countries. this report is really a request for the eu to start controlling tax policy over which it has no competence. tax is the competence of national governments in the eu and elsewhere. the truth is that clamping down on tax havens requires agreement between all the governments involved; otherwise, it is a pointless exercise. in any case we already have the oecd’s financial action task force working on this. europe just wants to get its hands on what is at present a sovereign matter for the nations of europe. one cannot help thinking that this is exactly what they wanted in the first place.
in writing. − i voted against this report as while my party is committed to combatting tax fraud, evasion and havens, we do not agree that allowing the eu to control our tax system is the way to achieve this.
in writing. − an estimated eur 1 trillion per annum is lost in the eu due to tax fraud and avoidance. according to christian aid, tax avoidance revenues could eradicate world hunger. i voted in favour of this report which calls for the eu to take the lead internationally to put an end to tax evasion. we have seen recently that companies such as amazon, which has a distribution centre in wales, can exploit tax regulations to maximise company profits. it is unfair that major companies are avoiding taxes at the expense of others.
in writing. − i abstained on this report, not because i do not consider the topic extremely important. i wholeheartedly agree that efforts must be taken to fight tax fraud and evasion. however, too many elements of this report seemed to be straying into the area of telling member states how to implement eu tax objectives – and i firmly believe that taxation must remain a member state competence.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which recommends concrete actions to tackle tax evasion and tax avoidance, which is estimated to cost eu member states eur 1 trillion a year, or eur 2 000 for every eu citizen.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. the uk is responsible for one in five of the world’s tax havens. the uk government has pledged to lead the fight against tax havens and tax fraud, and yet it has failed to bring forward the measures labour has called for to increase transparency and end the era of tax secrecy. whilst my constituency of london is home to the ftse 100 index, many of the companies registered on the ftse are in fact domiciled in tax havens. to make profit in london but not pay tax here is fundamentally unfair to my constituents who depend on the public services provided in london by that tax revenue. i am opposed to the proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base, but otherwise, i support this report.
in writing. − the fight against tax evasion is of course a pressing issue, but i was unable to back this entirely non-binding report because i do not think it presented a coherent framework for tackling tax avoidance and in some cases could even have made things worse. many of the ideas contained in this report infringe vital member state sovereignty and would not in fact solve the problem. companies taking advantage of different jurisdictions to minimise their tax bill is often facilitated by individual jurisdictions, and the only solution to this is for the member states, and others, to cooperate. for some politicians to present this issue as a straightforward matter that is simply solved misleads the public and hinders progress towards finding a solution to this pressing issue.
in writing. − eur 1 trillion of public money across the eu is lost every year to tax fraud and tax avoidance. therefore i support this directive in introducing greater transparency and action regarding tax planning.
in writing. − the ecr group supports efforts at national, eu and global level against tax evasion and tax fraud. we oppose the aggressive tax planning by which some companies are taking advantage of mismatches in tax regimes in relation to tax evasion and actively avoid legitimate government tax collection. we support analytical work by the oecd, the g20 or other relevant forums to clearly distinguish between legal and illegal acts in the area of taxation and ensure a level playing field. however, we cannot agree with the aim of preventing member states negotiating tax agreements directly with third countries. moreover, we do not consider it necessary to provide more budgetary resources and staff to dg taxud to help it develop eu policies and proposals on double non-taxation, tax evasion and fraud. the solution for the more efficient collection of taxes in member states does not lie in more eu legislation, but with better enforcement of the existing national and eu system, and through greater international cooperation in tax matters. finally, we disagree with the inclusion of the common consolidated corporate tax base in this report and have therefore as a group voted against paragraphs 9, 13 and 22 specifically and abstained on the final report. (debate)
in writing. − an estimated eur 1 trillion of eu public money is lost each year to tax fraud and tax avoidance and not enough is being done at national and european level to combat this. i support the measures in this report that highlight the need for greater transparency of tax payments and greater international action on the issue. it is also vitally important to ensure that companies operating in the eu fulfil their tax obligations and this is something that should be addressed as a matter of utmost importance. this report calls for a clear definition and a common set of criteria to identify tax havens and with the uk responsible for one in five of the world’s tax havens, i believe this is a vital step that would take tough action on tax evasion and avoidance.
in writing. − an estimated eur 1 trillion is lost to tax fraud and tax avoidance across the eu every year. the uk government has been talking big on tackling tax evasion recently, but their actions simply do not back this up. however, at a time when ordinary people are being subjected to public sector cuts and rising unemployment, it is more important than ever that we take steps to make sure everyone is paying their fair share of tax. this is why i have supported this own initiative report, which calls for greater clarity and transparency in companies’ tax arrangements, including the requirement for them to publish a single figure for the amount of tax paid in each member state. the report also includes provisions for an eu-wide blacklist of tax havens and automatic sharing of banking information, and to ensure regulators have strong powers to deal with tax fraud. labour meps did, however, vote against a paragraph of the report that called for a form of tax harmonisation across the eu. i hope the commission will take this report from parliament into account when it comes forward with proposals on tax transparency later this year.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it seeks to undermine member states’ control of their own tax systems. it is little more than another attempt by the eu to interfere in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it has good cross-references to the kleva report on tax havens. furthermore, it acknowledges that environmental taxation is the key to implementing ‘polluter pays’ principles and is among the most growth-friendly. the tax system needs to be remodelled and this report goes in the right direction. the eu is important for wales’s economic growth.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which ‘urges the member states to engage in serious negotiations and complete the procedures for all pending legislative proposals regarding issues of tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance, aggressive tax planning and tax havens; calls, inter alia, on the member states to conclude the process of reviewing and extending the scope of the savings taxation directive and, following the report from parliament, to adopt and implement without delay the commission’s proposal for a quick reaction mechanism against vat fraud’.
in writing. − this report makes it clear that taxation is a national competence; the goal of this report is to provide incentives for research and development that will in turn increase growth and job creation. the s&d were succesful in watering down ideas on an increased focus on consumer taxation (which would disproportionally affect the poor in society especially) and managed to redirect this debate towards increased capital taxation.
in writing. − taxation is a member state competence but i support this report as it aims to provide incentives for research and development, which in turn will increase growth and job creation.
in writing. − i am against the charter of fundamental rights of the eu as a principle. this is yet another eu great project to create an illusion of rule of law and superficial eu identity. the accession to this charter, including the adoption of a binding text setting out the fundamental rights and principles recognised by the union, is not of uk interest as my constituents are much better protected by common law.
in writing. − we are against the charter of fundamental rights of the eu as a principle, this is yet another eu great project to create a fake eu identity. the accession to this charter, including the adoption of a binding text setting out the fundamental rights and principles recognised by the union, is not of uk interest as my constituents are much better protected by common law.
in writing. − the czech government has agreed to sign up to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union under protocol no 30 (only the uk and poland use this). this is being sought because the czechs are concerned that the charter as it stands may impact on the beneš decree leading to reparations payments or rights of return being claimed. i voted in favour of this report as there is no need to hold a convention on such a small change, a convention would simply be a waste of money. eu membership is of great benefit to wales and i know my constituents want to make sure that money is spent in the correct way.
in writing. − i abstained on this report as i felt that, as the uk has protocol 30, it would not be appropriate for me to decide whether or not another country can have it.
in writing. − i fully recognise the czech republic’s right to decide which eu laws to opt out of and i am wholeheartly against the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as such.
in writing. − i fully recognise the czech republic’s right to decide which eu laws to opt out of and i am firmly against the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as such.
in writing. − the czech government has agreed to sign up to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union under protocol no 30 (only the uk and poland use this). this is being sought because the czechs are concerned that the charter as it stands may impact on the beneš decree leading to reparations payments or rights of return being claimed. i voted in favour of this report as there is no need to hold a convention on such a small change, a convention would simply be a waste of money. eu membership is of great benefit to wales and i know my constituents want to ensure that money is spent in the correct way.
in writing. − whilst this report has been written due to the wishes of the czech government, it deals with protocol 30 of the lisbon treaty which directly affects my country, scotland. hostility towards the charter of fundamental rights exists in certain sections of uk society and extends also to the echr. my own party rejects such hostility to human rights and is committed to an independent scotland with a written constitution enshrining these rights fully in scots law.
in writing. − protocol no 30 does not exempt the uk and poland from the binding provisions of the charter: it is not an opt-out. it does not amend the charter. at face value, the protocol would seem not to alter the legal position which would prevail if it were not to exist. yet the very existence of the protocol has given rise to legal uncertainty and political confusion. in that respect, it adversely affects all member states and not just the uk, poland or, prospectively, the czech republic.
madam president, completing the single market and promoting free trade is exactly what the eu should be doing. we spend far too much time in this place passing new laws which increase costs, destroy jobs and make people’s lives more difficult. we subsidise wind turbines that ruin the countryside and push up energy prices. we have a working time directive which tells people when they can and cannot work. and this week we learn, in the middle of an economic crisis, that the eu wants to regulate the dipping of bread in olive oil. you could not make it up. if the eu concentrated on making its citizens’ lives more prosperous instead of intruding into every aspect of national life, it would be a great deal more popular. i want the eu to do less. i want a new relationship between britain and the eu, with power repatriated to the parliament in westminster, and i want the british people to decide, in a referendum, whether they want to stay in the eu.
madam president, i think we all agree, right across the political spectrum, that the issues which are tackled here in this protection order are very important and that people should be afforded the same sort of level of protection as they travel across borders, particularly those who are victims of stalking, harassment and protection orders. but as so often happens in this place, unfortunately, highly emotive issues such as this are used as an excuse to interfere in national legal matters, and here we see an excuse to intervene in member states’ civil law legal systems.
in writing. − as regards the lópez-istúriz white/parvanova (a7-0126/2013) report on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters i have decided to vote in favour of this report as in some eu member states protection orders fall under the field of civil (as opposed to criminal) law. a vote in favour of this report enables the free movement of civil protection measures when a person protected by the measure travels to or moves to another member state. while i am not in favour of extending the scope of the eu into civil law, this deals with mutual recognition and will help the most vulnerable in our society.
in writing. − i am against any kind of violence, and especially violence that hits at the most vulnerable – men, women and children – as the victims of domestic violence. common law and our judges protect victims of domestic violence perfectly well and we do not need the eu-imposed instrument of cooperation in civil matters, as family law and the rest of civil law shall remain the competence of uk courts.
in writing. − we have an obligation to help the victims of crime, especially those who are victims of domestic violence. uk law and common law judges are protecting victims of domestic violence perfectly well and we do not need the eu-imposed new instrument of cooperation in civil matters, as family law and the rest of civil law shall remain the competence of uk courts.
in writing. − ukip strongly supports uk laws which seek to prevent, control or, where necessary, punish those who engage in domestic violence. the uk has developed an effective system of law to protect spouses and children from such acts. such laws are constantly being improved. ukip will always support sensible and workable developments in those laws. this measure allows the writ of foreign judges – who are in no way accountable to parliament or the british people – to run the uk. a protection order made in any other member state will be enforceable without further ado, potentially leading to imprisonment. as such this is an unacceptable infringement of the sovereign right of parliament and the courts to have exclusive jurisdiction over such matters according to uk law. furthermore an order made by a foreign judge with no concept of the very real difficulties and practicabilities of the enforcement of such orders within the context of uk law will lead to grave injustices which will make those produced by the european arrest warrant seem tame in comparison. the uk courts are the best forum for such matters, for those reasons we strongly oppose this measure, whilst abhorring all domestic violence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the civil european protection order. the aim is to establish an efficient mechanism to ensure that protection measures taken in civil matters in any member state can be circulated throughout the eu for quick and easy recognition. this is extremely important when a person who has protection moves or travels to another member state. this is an issue that constituents in wales have raised with me in the past and i welcome moves to make the system more effective to ensure the protection of individuals who may be at risk.
in writing. − i supported this report which will ensure citizens are protected by things such as domestic abuse interdicts wherever they may travel and live within the eu.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, which is part of a legislative package which strengthens the rights of victims in the eu and which also includes a proposal for a directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime.
in writing. − this is important legislation which will ensure that people are granted protection measures, e.g. from domestic or gender-based violence or from harassment. the inclusion of a multilingual certificate is vital to ensure protection for victims wherever they travel in the eu. i was happy to support this report.
in writing. − i supported this directive, which will ensure that a protection order issued in one member state will be recognised in all member states. this means that victims of stalking, harassment and domestic violence who have been granted a protection order can expect the same level of protection if they move to another eu country. given that over a million british citizens live in other european countries, this is an important move in helping to maintain their right to safety and security. the report includes provisions for a multilingual protection order certificate that will be available online and can be easily transmitted between member states. protected people will also have the right to receive information and assistance in their own language.
in writing. − the ecr group strongly defends the rights of victims who have been subject to physical violence and intimidation, and we recognise that vulnerable groups such as women, if they have been the victim of a physically violent crime, need protecting at the highest possible level, and to those ends we have continually supported criminal law instruments dealing with criminal offences against women and victims. the ecr group abstained on today’s report, however, because we do not believe that the european union has any place in excessively interfering in civil legal systems. the eu now has a number of legal instruments at its disposal to help women and victims and we would like to see those instruments implemented fully into national law; it is unnecessary and burdensome to member states when the eu adopts further legislation which merely duplicates what is already in place.
in writing. − i decided to abstain from this vote because, although i believe it is necessary to reinforce customs-related aspects for securing the logistics chain of international trade – including container security – while at the same time facilitating legitimate trade and global security in this age of terrorist threats, i do not believe the eu should be part of the mutual recognition agreements on customs security; including the mutual recognition of respective trade partnership programmes with equivalent trade facilitation measures. the member states should take full responsibility for that and even reinforce custom controls to make border controls stricter and more efficient .
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, responsibility for investment policy has lied with the eu. this has raised many questions. for example, if a foreign investor has a claim against a member state imposing a ban on fracking, against whom does the investor claim: the eu or the member state? these are important issues for wales, particularly in terms of protecting and using our natural resources.
in writing. − the customs relations between the european union and canada are based on the agreement on customs cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters of 1998. the agreement on customs cooperation regarding matters related to supply chain security – negotiated by the commission since may 2011 – builds on and expands the 1998 cmaa, a possibility which is provided for in it. the aim of the new agreement is to reinforce the customs-related aspects for securing the logistics chain of international trade – including container security – while at the same time facilitating legitimate trade. the agreement establishes a legal basis for increased eu-canada customs cooperation on matters such as risk standards, security controls, minimum standards for risk management techniques, information and data exchange, strategic partnering in the area of cargo inspection, as well as collaboration in multilateral forums such as the world customs organization. equally, it opens the door for mutual recognition agreements on customs security, including the mutual recognition of respective trade partnership programmes with equivalent trade facilitation measures. the aeo programme is a cornerstone of the eu’s supply chain security policy, enabling customs authorities to concentrate scarce resources on high-risk consignments. over 10 000 european companies have already been certified as safe traders.
in writing. − this report establishes a legal basis for eu-canadian customs cooperation in supply-chain security and risk management. it strengthens customs aspects of international trade logistics and establishes minimum standards for risk management in the field of supply chain security, which i was happy to support.
in writing. − i support this trade agreement between the eu and canada as it addresses trade faciliatation by coordinating minimum standards on risk management and supply chain security and on mutual recognition of standards.
madam president, more than five years after the run on northern rock and more than four years after lehman brothers collapsed, how does the eu respond? we have a lot of financial legislation. we have built a whole european supervisory architecture, including the european banking authority, yet the problem remains. if a bank went bust tomorrow it would still want taxpayers’ money to bail it out. so while we have focused on structures and legislation in other areas, we have not tackled the fundamental problem of banks being ‘too big to fail’ – which, frankly, means they should be too big to exist. let me offer the three points that i think we should be focusing on. first of all, making it as explicit as possible that there will be no more taxpayer bail-outs. secondly, making sure that directors who preside over failing banks pay the price for failure, either through director liability or some form of being paid in bonds. thirdly, sorting out our accounting standards so that, if you put a financial instrument on your balance sheet, you do not book your profit up-front and you make sure you put enough money aside if there is a loss. if we could stick to these three fundamental principles, that would do far more to solve the banking crisis than what we discussed today.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i believe that the eu should not have control over credit or banking institutions. therefore the european banking authority should cease to exist and the eu should get back to being the simple trade treaty it was when we originally joined. this report shows how the eu is in fact imposing its one-size-fits-all, single rule book solutions and in the future, due to this legislation, will destroy the city of london.
in writing. − i voted against this report as we believe that the eu should not have control over credit or banking institutions. therefore the european banking authority should cease to exist and the eu should get back to being the simple trade treaty it was when we originally joined. this report shows how the eu is in fact imposing its one-size-fits-all, single rule book solutions and in the future, due to this legislation, will destroy the city of london
in writing. − i voted in favour of more banking supervision, but the final vote on the legislation was postponed until more clarity on the ep’s scrutiny role is provided. i have long called for stronger banking oversight and regulation. the new supervisory authority will overhaul the current disjointed light-touch national supervision and oversight, which has enabled financial institutions to engage in risky activities, which created the financial crisis. the financial crisis has hit wales hard and everything possible must be done to ensure such a crisis doesn’t hit europe again.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, the basic premise of which is that the banking union should be underpinned by proper checks and balances and accountability mechanisms between political institutions at eu and national level and those bodies exercising supervisory responsibilities at both eu and national level.
in writing. − economic interests in my constituency of london, which is heavily dependent on the financial sector, will be protected where needed and where appropriate, through the safeguards proposed by my uk labour colleagues to make sure that the uk is fully involved in decisions taken by the eba. decisions will be made with the uk fully involved. with this in mind i support this package, as it will give vital confidence and stability to a euro area in desperate need of a way out of this crisis, which is affecting other non-euro area eu countries, such as the uk and especially my constituency of london to its detriment.
in writing. − a shared currency and close financial integration make the euro area particularly vulnerable to banking crises spilling over from one eu country to another. proposals have therefore been put forward for a european banking union, which will have overall supervision of all euro area banks. confidence in the euro area is important for the health of the uk economy; however we were concerned that the creation of a single supervisor for the euro area would lead to non-euro area countries being sidelined on decisions relating to the single market. labour meps recognise that these measures are necessary to restore stability to the eu banking system and are pleased that the final deal, which we supported today, includes appropriate safeguards to ensure that decisions are made with support from both euro area and non-euro area countries.
in writing. − i voted against this report as we believe that the eu should not have control over prudential supervision of credit institutions or banking institutions. therefore the european central bank should cease to exist and the eu should get back to being the simple trade treaty it was when we originally joined. this report shows how the eu is in fact imposing its one-size-fits-all, single rule book solutions and wants to control the city of london.
in writing. − i voted against this report as we believe that the eu should not have control over prudential supervision of credit institutions or banking institutions. therefore the european central bank should cease to exist and the eu should get back to being the simple trade treaty it was when we originally joined. this report shows how the eu is in fact imposing its one-size-fits-all, single rule book solutions and in the future, due to this legislation, will destroy the city of london. i am especially against the provision which says that: ‘the ecb may, if deemed necessary, instead of the national competent or national designated authorities of the participating member state, apply higher requirements for capital buffers than applied by the national competent or national designated authorities of participating member states to be held by credit institutions at the relevant level’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of more banking supervision, but the final vote on the legislation was postponed until more clarity on the ep's scrutiny role is provided. i have long called for stronger banking oversight and regulation. the new supervisory authority will overhaul the current national supervision and oversight, which have allowed financial institutions to engage in risky activities and led to the financial crisis. the crisis has hit wales hard, and everything possible must be done to ensure that it is prevented in future.
in writing. − i note that this resolution asserts that: ‘the present financial and economic crisis has seen europe’s banking system brought close to collapse. the integrity of the single currency and the single market is threatened by the fragmentation of the financial sector. it is now essential to intensify the integration of the banking sector in order to bolster european unity, restore financial stability and lay the basis for economic recovery.’
in writing. − confidence in the euro area is vital for the prospects of the uk economy, not least in my constituency of london, which is heavily dependent on the financial sector, most at risk from the current economc crisis. the single supervisory mechanism is a first and vital step towards a fully fledged banking union and breaking the vicious circle between private and sovereign debt – and is a method to shore up this confidence within the euro area. i welcome the calls from my uk labour colleagues to put safeguards in place to make sure that the uk is not outvoted on decisions vital to our economic interest.
in writing. − a shared currency and close financial integration make the euro area particularly vulnerable to banking crises spilling over from one eu country to another. proposals have therefore been put forward for a european banking union, which will have overall supervision of all euro area banks. confidence in the euro area is important for the health of the uk economy; however we were concerned that the creation of a single supervisor for the euro area would lead to non-euro area countries being sidelined on decisions relating to the single market. labour meps recognise that these measures are necessary to restore stability to the eu banking system and are pleased that the final deal, which we supported today, includes appropriate safeguards to ensure that decisions are made with support from both euro area and non-euro area countries.
in writing. − i voted against this new consolidation of eu law, or any new consolidation of eu law, because this is yet another example of a complete pro-eu approach, which intends to control the market. this legislation was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents. i firmly believe that market surveillance and protection of customers is very good in the uk and we do not need the eu to control it.
in writing. − i voted against this new consolidation of eu law as it demonstrates a complete pro-eu approach and seeks to control the market. this legislation was not created with the consent of my voters or constituents. i firmly believe that market surveillance and protection of customers is very good in the uk and we do not need the eu declaration of conformity (doc) or the eu forcing member states to punish those who commit the crime of improper use of ce marking.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on pyrotechnic articles. this revised text of the existing 2007 directive on the rules for selling fireworks and vehicle safety equipment (which uses pyrotechnic technology) makes definitions and the obligations of contractors clearer, and harmonises standards in the interests of consumer safety. pyrotechnics can be dangerous, and people in wales, especially children, are at risk like others. i am in favour of legislation which will help prevent accidents.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal which sets out essential safety requirements that pyrotechnic articles must comply with in order to be made available on the eu market.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report. harmonising and updating technical rules on pyrotechnic articles is a means to improve safety for consumers as well as to guarantee good functioning of the internal market and boost the competitiveness of the eu industry.
in writing. − i support this as it will remedy shortcomings in existing union legislation and will align the existing nine product directives. this regulation benefits the single market with fair competition and safe products that will increase the confidence of both producers and consumers.
in writing. − i believe in freedom of speech and the media. i feel deeply saddened when such important issues as the protection of children or the fight against hatred or anti-semitism are used to impose more eu law and new areas of control. we do not need that or new eu requirements on how to present news, what to say in the news and how, or how to advertise. in my opinion this is a form of censorship and control over freedom of speech.
in writing. − i believe in freedom of speech and the media. i feel deeply saddened when such important issues as the protection of children or the fight against hatred or anti-semitism are used to impose more eu law and new areas of control. we do not need the uk’s high standards to be changed in order to meet new eu requirements on how to present news, what to say in the news and how, or how to advertise. in my opinion this is a form of censorship .
in writing. − i was happy to vote in favour of the audiovisual media services directive, the objective of which is to integrate technological developments, create a level playing field for emerging audiovisual media, preserve cultural diversity, protect children and consumers, combat hate speech, and guarantee the independence of national media regulators. emerging media and technological developments have great potential to help the people of wales and of europe, but we must ensure these developments are not open to abuse due to a lack of regulation.
in writing. − the audiovisual media services directive is an important piece of legislation and this report raises serious issues. unfortunately scotland does not currently have any powers over these media services: the democratically elected scottish parliament is denied this competence. a vote for scottish independence will however change that and ensure that scottish broadcasters can fully flourish in the european mainstream.
in writing. − i voted for this report, the main aim of which is to evaluate the effectiveness of directive 2010/13/eu on audiovisual media services and the progress made in its transposition. the directive is the cornerstone of media regulation in the european union. under article 33, the commission is required to submit a report to parliament on the application of the directive in the member states every three years. publication of the commission’s first report was significantly delayed owing, inter alia, to the fact that some member states had not fully transposed the directive within the indicated deadline.
in writing. − the implementation of this directive in all member states is vital to reach wider audiences in the eu and beyond. however, i was happy to support s&d amendments which included criticism of the lack of sufficient data on promotion of european works by on-demand services and called for the reporting requirement to include category and distribution breakdowns, and for a greater role to be given to self-regulatory and co-regulatory tools in the protection of young people in the media.
in writing. − i support this directive as i feel it is important to promote cultural diversity through the distribution of european works, freedom and pluralism of the media, the right to information and protection of consumers.
in writing. − i supported this report, as i believe it is important that the european commission’s audiovisual media services directive – which governs the coordination of national legislation on audiovisual media in all member states – is enforced in an effective manner. there have been many positive aspects to the commission’s implementation of this directive up to now, particularly with regard to the balanced approach it has taken to influence the development of the market at a time of rapid technological evolution. however, there is certainly room for improvement, with a lack of uniformity across member states and an unsatisfactory and much delayed monitoring process hindering the advancement of this directive. other areas for improvement include accessibility issues, the promotion of cultural diversity in the media and the protection of consumers, especially minors. it is vital that eu guidelines on national media laws aim to combat discrimination in the audiovisual sphere and safeguard media pluralism.
mr president, i agree with the remarks made by mr salafranca and one or two other speakers to the effect that we need more practical support for the national coalition and other well-intentioned elements. this may mean that we will have to reconsider the eu arms embargo in the region. very regrettably, however, while what we saw originally was a struggle between a majority population trying to retain or regain freedom from an oppressive minority, what we have now seen is the increasing involvement of extremist and terrorist groups, not least the iranian-backed hezbollah on the one side, helping to prop up the assad regime, but also elements such as the al-qaida-affiliated al-nusra on the other. tragically and inevitably, as we have heard from so many, it is the civilian population that bears the brunt of this struggle. there have been massive civilian casualties, and now something like a third of syria’s population are either internally displaced or are refugees, mainly in lebanon, jordan and turkey. turkey, of course, is a long-standing nato ally and eu candidate and therefore deserves particular support. it has set up some 17 camps holding nearly 200 000 refugees. international aid is far below the level needed by turkey and other friendly countries such as jordan to meet the heavy burden they are carrying. i wonder what steps the commission is taking to provide more aid through organisations such as the international committee of the red cross and the red crescent, which seem to be most active in the field. clearly these difficulties need to be dealt with locally, and i very much hope that we shall see many of the richer arab countries making major financial and humanitarian contributions, as ms neyts-uyttebroeck has also suggested. in conclusion, i want to return to the hezbollah question. it will be recalled that i wrote to baroness ashton on 7 february 2013 calling for the armed wing of hezbollah to be placed on the eu list of proscribed terrorist organisations. bearing in mind recent developments, are we any closer now to facing reality and listing the armed wing of hezbollah as a terrorist organisation?
mr president, i of course support calls for the eu to put more impetus into finding a political solution, and i support those colleagues who have argued that we need to do more to aid refugees in jordan, lebanon, turkey and iraq. however, i want to use my very brief intervention to highlight the plight of the palestinians, who, despite being neutral in this conflict, have been disproportionately affected. generations of palestinians have moved to syria: after 1948, after 1967 and, most recently, from iraq in 2003. it is now estimated that over 400 000 palestinians have had to flee from syria. jordan has now closed its border to palestinians and lebanon has introduced expensive visa requirements and barriers to work. palestinians again depend disproportionately on aid, and the un works and relief agency provides virtually all the health care, shelter, education and food for the palestinians who are fleeing. i hope we can do more to help everyone involved in this crisis but, in particular, i hope we can do more to help the vulnerable palestinian community and increase our aid to unwra.
madam president, the appalling problem of the millions of external and internal refugees cannot be considered in isolation. their difficulties will only be overcome when the conflict comes to an end. the problem is, of course, that neither side seems likely to win decisively in the foreseeable future. the conflict is often depicted as being one between incontrovertible good – the opposition – and incontrovertible evil – the government. in fact, both sides have committed hideous atrocities. the government is politically repressive but socially secular. some of the opposition are – or claim to be – both politically and socially liberal. others, the islamists, are neither, and they certainly are not secular. their regime would be more oppressive than assad’s syria. the answer is not to provide arms to either side, and it is not to bring the population to neighbouring countries or to europe. the answer is for the whole international community to urge talks between government and opposition without preconditions – except, of course, for a ceasefire.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the arab spring was intended to embody the essence of political freedom: the fundamental right of populations to determine how they live and how they are governed. that spirit of freedom and democracy which swept away the rigid secular tyrannies in tunisia, libya and egypt bore justice at its centre, but too much was stolen from the people for too long, and if the revolution was to achieve anything, it was right and proper for those deeply entrenched wrongs to be reversed. gadaffi alone is alleged to have plundered about usd 200 billion from his people; hosni mubarak has an estimated gbp 133 million offshore (some of it was stashed in london, the city that i represent); and the swiss government froze around usd 68 million of president ben ali’s ill-gotten gains from the tunisian people. all the while, vast swathes of their populations lived in absolute poverty. at a time when the air of hope in those countries has given way to so much resignation, and in some cases despair, asset recovery is a tangible means to demonstrate that the revolutions were not in vain and that the monies which were stolen from the people can rightly be restituted to them. a clear plan is now necessary for negotiations to be instituted between the middle eastern and north african governments and those of the countries storing these assets – all of which are available – including the need to find appropriately-trained forensic accountants to be deployed to trace and return these monies. we must also further encourage friendly jurisdictions to assist the arab spring countries as far as they can in this matter. however, this is not an area in which my group believes that the eu should assume direct and new competences. we would oppose this and we would oppose the establishment of any dedicated eu taskforce for this purpose as it is a matter for intergovernmental, global cooperation, for the g8, or for the un, to which the eu can add little value per se. but we would continue to do all that we can to support the arab spring countries in this matter to ensure that a lasting injustice from decades of tyranny can finally be corrected.
madam president, we must be very cautious if we intend to include iraq in the list of countries to which stolen or frozen assets are returned. there is mounting concern that iraq is once again descending into chaos and potential civil war. seventy-one people have been killed in the past week alone. hundreds of thousands of iraqis have taken to the streets in protests which have continued now for months. they are outraged at what they regard as an emerging dictatorship led by prime minister nouri al-maliki, who many regard as a puppet of the iranian regime. although oil production has been restored to an all-time high, with an estimated usd 80 billion in earnings last year alone, much of this money simply disappears. minorities are routinely persecuted, violently attacked and excluded from public-sector jobs. the christian minority, one of the oldest in the world, has dwindled from more than 1.5 million 10 years ago to just over 300 000 today. i fear that any assets released back to this corrupt and venal regime will simply disappear into the black hole of corruption that is already swallowing that country’s future.
blue-card question. – ms cornelissen, in the light of the points which you made in your speech, how do you justify the very substantial sums of money paid to bosnia and herzegovina to your constituents, many of whom are struggling, as are most people in the european union?
mr president, bosnia has an eye-watering unemployment rate of 43%. it is yet another very poor eastern european country in line to join the eu. once the door is open to bosnia, there will be a massive outflow of people. the uk will then be a magnet. back home, the british conservative party claims to be committed to reducing immigration. but, as we all know, that is an impossibility so long as we remain in the eu, and the impossibility is compounded as more countries get eu membership and their people in consequence have the right of free movement. it is simply breathtaking that the british government and the labour party, none of whose representatives are here, can support – and support actively – bosnia herzegovina joining the eu.
blue-card answer. – mr rouček, i think with respect that you are missing the point. it is not very many at the moment, but that is precisely because we are able to have immigration controls. should bosnia-herzegovina become a member of the european union, we would then have no immigration controls, as you and your colleagues have said in this house many times – and, i regret to say it, with the support of the commission. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i would have thought that i had made it very clear – indeed abundantly clear – that my party is opposed to bosnia-herzegovina becoming a member of the european union. but we are further opposed to macedonia, serbia, albania and, above all, turkey becoming members of the european union. and that surely is the point. i would just quickly say: if i was objecting to this and bosnia-herzegovina was about to join tomorrow, you would be entitled to say it is too late to object, so that is why we are objecting now, and with some degree of clarity.
mr president, i congratulate bosnia and herzegovina on making little progress towards meeting the political criteria. the more resistance a country shows to the eu, the better, in my opinion. in particular it has resisted the move towards a neo-liberal market economy as distinct from simply a private enterprise economy. apparently, too, little progress has been made towards freedom of movement, for which i might be inclined to congratulate them – until i discovered they are referring to freedom of movement within bosnia and herzegovina. if you are a croat or a bosniac, you might think twice about travelling through some parts of the republic of srpska. there is a coded reference to there being no shared vision. what this means is that the population is split three ways and political cooperation is minimal. would it really be desirable to bring such a divided country into the eu? there is of course a lesson for us. a vertically-divided state is ungovernable, as swedes in stockholm must be concluding at this very moment.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, once again i put before you the clear recommendation that accession negotiations for this country should start without further delay. however, this year – in response to the ethnic tensions last august as well as the political crisis of 24 december 2012 – i also want to re-emphasise some of the tough reality: that future progress towards europe is jeopardised, that the democratic credibility of the country is in question, and that we cannot want the country to join the european union more than its people themselves do. so, concerning the commission of inquiry, the memorandum of understanding and the dialogue for freedom of expression, i appeal to you to make substantive progress far beyond where you are today. i say the same concerning the name issue too. europe is rightly welcoming progress between serbia and kosovo. those leaders had to show no less courage than what is required today between leaders in athens and in skopje. indeed, i fear that only progress on the name issue can now keep hopes alive in june. however, this parliament is also asking clear questions of the european council. are you using the challenges of the country as a convenient excuse? have you really considered what will happen if this country slides back towards conflict and fragmentation? looking at the past year, does the european council accept its own responsibilities resulting from the delay and rejection? do you understand that when you are in a queue and find yourself continually pushed past, getting further and further from the front, then at some point you will walk away from the queue altogether? my own report here in parliament was postponed pending an agreement to end the political crisis. i now fear that the european council may have to contemplate postponing its june decision – possibly a better outcome than yet another rejection. indeed, by the end of this year i cannot predict whether this will be a country in which eu accession negotiations have begun, or one which may have lost its candidate status altogether. what i do know is that this country and its people deserve a chance. commissioner, i am proud that you asked mr buzek and me to broker that agreement on 1 march 2013 but, mr president, when i reflect on that experience, i think most of all of the ordinary macedonians who came up to us in the street, in corridors, on public transport, wishing us well and urging us to succeed. it is those hopes and aspirations of the people of the country which guide me most and which demand that the eu finds a way to help this country move forward. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am on record, and i once again ask parliament to say that the talks should start without delay and without condition. it is paragraph 1 of my resolution that i put before you. i say to the european council that you must heed what the european parliament says. whether it is june or whether it is later, the vast majority of meps in this chamber – from the left of centre, the right of centre, the centre – from the vast majority of member states of the european union support the consensus. we saw it in the committee on foreign affairs. we will see it in this parliament tomorrow. it is time our voice was heard too.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, macedonia suffers the dubious distinction of being the longest-standing eu candidate state not to have started accession negotiations. the deadlock has now lasted eight years, and it must be extremely galling for the government in skopje to see croatia, which gained that status only a year before macedonia in 2004, set to join the european union in less than six weeks’ time while skopje remains totally unable to move on and has now even been overtaken by montenegro. it is perhaps not helpful to point the finger of blame too much on this point, but my group would urge greek government movement on the interminable name issue. there have been encouraging signs from athens in recent months, but much more needs now to be done to see practical steps taken which will be acceptable to both sides. to my mind it would be nothing short of absurd for macedonia if the issue of the country’s name choice prevented it from realising its european ambitions. there have been worrying developments recently in macedonia in its bilateral relationship with bulgaria. there are delicate issues to be addressed here for sure, particularly regarding the issue of the handing out of bulgarian nationality, but i would urge the bulgarians to offer the hand of friendship to their macedonian neighbours and to support their quest for eu membership which they so much desire. i therefore welcome richard hewitt’s sensitive and comprehensive 2012 progress report and commend his work in helping to break the domestic political deadlock in skopje earlier this year. i encourage all colleagues in this chamber to continue reaching out to macedonia, which is a stable but highly-challenged democracy trying to secure a prosperous future for its diverse peoples by anchoring its future in euro-atlantic structures.
in writing. – i must disagree with my honourable friend who spoke on behalf of my group in this debate. i do not believe that the deadlock on fyrom’s membership of the european union can be blamed on a lack of movement on the name issue by the greek government. fyrom must accept a degree – if not a larger proportion – of the blame. the so-called policy of ‘antiquisation’ in fyrom has seen statues of alexander the great and philip of macedon erected across the country. streets, roads and even skopje’s main airport are named after them. these cynical moves show that fyrom is more interested in its past than in its future. the real barrier to opening accession talks with fyrom is the country’s lack of commitment to genuine reform, as the events of 24 december 2012 have shown. fyrom needs to guarantee free and pluralistic media, enforce anti-corruption legislation and ensure the independence and impartiality of the judiciary if it is serious about joining the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i have to say that i disagree with yannick, but then i usually do disagree with him. i think the commission – and the commissioner in question – has always been willing to come to the meetings of the committee on international trade and has always kept us fully informed. this is not about individual members trying to negotiate individually with the united states. it is a huge opportunity for jobs, growth and prosperity, right across the european union – in financial services, insurance services and the motor industry. i was the rapporteur on the korean free trade agreement, and the motor industry was very opposed to it. this time, of course, there is a huge opportunity for them. talking about the motor industry, commissioner, perhaps one of the most important issues will be a mutual recognition of standards, particularly bearing in mind that in the us standards vary from state to state. therefore i think it is particularly important that we get that recognition. i do not believe that a car is any more dangerous in the united states than it is in the european union. we have a set of standards which we should mutually respect. the third point would be the rules of global systems: the wto. we must, in my opinion, look. we failed in the doha round. we are into bilateral rounds, and plurilateral rounds seem to be disappearing. therefore it is about signalling to the whole of the wto, and for that matter to the world, that the eu is open for business – and at a crisis time, because there is a crisis within the european union at the moment. we want to be outward-looking and not protectionist. i feel there is a real risk of that. i would say that monsieur hollande’s recent protectionist speech about the way he feels about the trade deal is a great risk. i think we have a unique opportunity. negotiating on behalf of the european union, the commission must have a free hand to get the very best deal it can, and i have total trust in the commission. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card question. – madam president, robert, i wonder, would you accept that the transatlantic trade agreement is a potential game changer in the united kingdom in terms of attitudes to the european union? this could actually make some of our eurosceptics value the work that the european union does.
blue-card answer. – madam president, david, the problem in the united kingdom is that many parties feed some of the other parties via their eurosceptism, and it creates a sort of oxygen for the real eurosceptics. this is a real opportunity, i totally agree with you. the us would never negotiate just with the united kingdom, whatever people think. i was involved in the uruguay round, and i remember well that they were not interested in dealing just with the united kingdom. at that time we were new members in the european union. they wanted to deal with the european union and therefore, yes, i agree with you.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, i would just point out to mr sturdy that the us already has a trade agreement with ecuador, a rather smaller country than the uk. the uk is the largest foreign investor in the us. similarly, the us is the largest foreign investor in the uk. it is the commercial links that are more important than – and transcend – any relationship between prime minister and president. britain and the us not only have a shared language but shared legal systems, shared cultures and a shared pro-business orientation. other member states, except for ireland, have none of these. the uk should not be compelled to negotiate with the us on trade only through the person of the eu trade commissioner, however capable the gentleman is.
madam president, minister, commissioner, i think the majority of the people in this house welcome the opening of these discussions, but we know that it is not going to be easy. as the chair of the committee said, there will be some tough areas: geographical indicators, gmos, maritime issues, intellectual property rights and audio-visual media services. let us all at this moment pause and spare a thought for that poor, fragile french culture, which so desperately needs to be protected in any of these agreements because it cannot stand on its own. we also have to remember though that one party’s standard is quite often another party’s non-tariff barrier. but as long as we can make sure that we have an open and transparent process, let us hope that we can avoid the problems of some of the other agreements where we discuss so many issues that they become about everything but trade. if we can do that, hopefully we will be able to conclude a successful eu-us agreement.
madam president, we have already heard all that has been said about the value of trade between the eu and the us and about what this relationship underpins. it is summed up as ‘jobs and growth’, although some people would like to cast doubt on that. but what this deal really does is underline the progress that has been made, can be made and still needs to be made on global standards and regulatory coherence. the eu and the us can stand together now and make a difference on rules, but in a few more years our chances will be very slim indeed. rules ending financial risks and rules on keeping environmental and labour standards high are all up for grabs in a discussion between two equal giants in the world. i come from a country that knows something about euroscepticism, believe you me. when i try to define euroscepticism, i end up defining it as nationalism, little-mindedness and, indeed, protectionism. we have a commission that has the competence to negotiate on behalf of the entire eu on the issue of trade. we should have some confidence that we can do that together rather than picking it apart nationally, as it would seem that a few people here today would have us do.
rapporteur. − mr president, there is no doubt that we are witnessing remarkable progress in burma. the steps that the country has taken towards democratisation and transition from military rule should be recognised by this house. but we also have to recognise that the country has started this process from an incredibly closed and repressive situation. and, while it has come a long way, it still has a long way to go in terms of opening up, and modernising and democratising the country. the proposal we have before us tonight is to reinstate trade preferences. after such a long period of suspension, it was difficult to assess whether we should carry out this action and therefore we have had to take our guidance, as the rules anyway suggest we should, from the international labour organisation and the ilo has concluded that forced labour, the original reason for removing burma’s preferences, is no longer, i quote, ‘a serious and systematic problem in burma’. that does not mean of course that forced labour does not continue to exist in burma – it is simply saying it is no longer serious and systematic. if we believe in a fair rules-based trading system, and i do, then it is important to acknowledge the steps that burma has taken and that these merit reinstatement of its preferential trading scheme. gsp is a carrot and stick approach to trade policy. in order to continue to benefit from trade preferences, burma will be required to maintain and improve democratisation and respect for human rights and, of course, it is our task to continue to monitor that progress. sanctions have been in place between the eu and burma since 1996. given how remarkably closed the country has been for so long and the fragile state it is now in, i think it is clear that burma is a rather unique case, and in this respect i welcome the announcement by the high representative cathy ashton in recent weeks that a myanmar-eu task force will be established to strengthen economic cooperation. at the same time as we have the opening of this fragile country with a precarious human rights situation, we see what can be described as almost an unseemly rush by developed countries’ industries to move into burma. of course, we should welcome investment in burma to help modernise the country, but we have to ensure that european union industries and european companies that move into burma respect freedom of association, encourage civil society participation and do nothing to exacerbate the ethnic conflict that exists within burma. that is why, accompanying our approval for reinstating gsp, we have argued for strong csr conditions, csr policies, to be attached to the reopening of the burmese market. i want the european union to ensure that it monitors the csr situation in burma and that it follows roughly, and i say only roughly, the guidelines that the united states has set out for its country operating within burma. as a union, we have to encourage best practice by european companies operating in the burmese economy, and we have to ensure that, when the transparency and accounting directives are passed which are being negotiated between our institutions at the present time, they are properly applied and monitored in the burmese situation. but of course they will only apply to extractive industries, so we need wider controls. finally and very briefly, there are serious problems with ethnic strife in burma, but we should not be surprised that we are now receiving reports of that. when you take the lid off a kettle, some of the steam is going to come out. that is not excusing the strife that exists there but simply saying we are now getting it reported. it is not necessarily new and we have to encourage the burmese government to take action to reconcile itself with the muslim and other minority communities.
rapporteur. − mr president, there is agreement in this chamber that burma is at least on the road to reform. it is not part of my argument to suggest that burma no longer has any problems. i believe that it still has problems with forced labour and with human rights abuses, and there is still an unacceptable level of violence against the rohingyas. the question is whether reinstating gsp will help burma on the road to reform or hinder it. in my view, this reinstatement will help burma on the right path, but our responsibility does not end there. we have to demand three things. we have to demand that the burmese government continues on that path to reform. secondly, we have to ensure that european union companies operating in burma act responsibly, and we have to keep some sort of check here in the european union on how they are behaving. finally, we have a duty as a commission, as member states and as a european parliament to continue to monitor the situation there. if the situation deteriorates or if the reforms go into reverse, we can always remove gsp from the burmese. that is what we should do if they do not continue down the path of reform.
author. − mr president, firstly let me make it clear that my own group does not believe that investor-state dispute settlements are necessary between mature legal systems. so we have grave doubts about including isds in our agreements with canada, the usa, and other agreements where we are dealing with two sets of well-developed, mature legal structures. where isds does exist, there are three key issues that we are keen to emphasise: firstly, that it should give no advantage to foreign companies over domestic companies. we do not believe that there should be a system where a foreign company can claim for compensation when domestic companies are excluded from that avenue. secondly, we do not believe that isds should in any way be allowed to limit public space for development of health, social, environmental and other policies. we do not want to see a system where countries are sued, or the eu is sued, by companies because of changes in health or other legislation, as has happened elsewhere in the world. thirdly, we want the system to be as transparent and as open as possible. it is very easy in such a system to use commercial confidentiality as an excuse for keeping all this away from the general public. that must not be allowed to happen. we have to know what cases exist, what the settlements were, what the grounds for complaint were, and so on. and all of that needs to be published. so i repeat: there are circumstances where isds may be necessary, particularly if it helps in relation to a developed country, where it helps both european investors to invest and that country to attract investment that it might not otherwise attract. however, when you are dealing with mature legal systems, we do not believe that there is any justification for isds.
mr president, i would like to apologise in advance for digressing from the subject of this debate and using my time to make reference to a shocking incident that has happened in my constituency, london, today. there has been a particularly cowardly and disgusting terrorist murder of a man in woolwich. initial reports indicate that the victim appears to be a member of her majesty’s armed forces. i am sure that all of you, like me, will offer your deepest sympathy to the victim’s family, friends and colleagues. it is not possible to express the depth of outrage that all decent people will feel at this latest expression of barbaric and mindless terrorism. this crime will be condemned by all decent people. the people of london and the members of her majesty’s armed forces will not be intimidated by such terrorists and their mindless, primitive violence.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i also would like to express my sorrow and offer my condolences to the families. we have to understand that, not only have people lost loved ones here, they have lost their means of sustenance. there are a lot of breadwinners, and they do not have the same support from the state that we would have in those circumstances. it is yet another tragedy, just a few months after the factory fire, and – if only safety standards had been met. the workers actually pointed out that there were problems, and nothing was done. i welcome the fact that the government in bangladesh has reacted very swiftly in initiating reforms on labour law, minimum wages and inspections, but we need to make sure that these reforms are actually implemented and not just adopted. i also strongly welcome the accord on fire and building safety that a number of european retailers have signed but deeply regret that many retailers have not joined this – particularly american retailers. i have heard that one major german company has not joined it. we need to remember that a lot of retailers use the same factories, and the accord will only be effective if we have a single guarantee system to make sure safety rules are respected. i welcome the commissioner’s statement – it was a very strong statement – but i would like to know a little more about what we can do to create a coherent approach with our american partners in terms of international trade with bangladesh, and how we can use the ‘everything but arms’ scheme and gsp as a means of leverage. i agree with the epp speaker that we should not simply pull out and boycott bangladeshi products, because there is so much dependence on the industry in bangladesh. i would like to know how far the commission would go in that respect. in conclusion, we need action now, because far too many people have died already, and most of these tragedies were easily preventable.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am also speaking in my capacity as chair of the delegation for relations with south asia, which covers bangladesh. in that capacity, i have also issued a statement of condolence to the families of those tragically killed. a few days ago, bangladesh moved over 1 million people out of danger from an approaching cyclone. there we saw 13 deaths, mainly people hit by trees, and loss of property. why am i mentioning this? well, because i think that it shows what can be done to reduce disasters and risks when government and civil society work together with international help. we need the same determined attitude to risk reduction in the textiles sector, and i could add shipbreaking as well. in the textiles sector we have over 4 million people, mainly women, who ought to be able to feel that they can return home safely after the end of a working day having earned a decent living wage. that has implications – as others have mentioned – for the prices actually paid by the buyers. these recent tragedies have no doubt raised the issue’s profile, and they have certainly raised political pressure. we are seeing a concerted response at the moment, and i am really pleased that the ilo is in there and that the european union is also offering its support. the accord on fire and building safety, which brings together the trade unions, ngos, government and the textile retailers, is important. i do not think that we should step back from naming companies who have yet to sign up. that public pressure is really important and, as my colleague has said, it is the coordinated holistic response, not a series of parallel inspections, that is really needed. equally, some of the other measures that we have talked about, in terms of corporate social responsibility, need to be enforced. so my group will not be supporting the amendments to write these issues out of this resolution. the action plan is certainly to be welcomed. that strengthened role for trade unions, i think we would all agree, is extremely important within this, as is their ability to organise freely and to hold management to account. management responsibility in rana plaza was desperately lacking. bringing in additional inspectors who have to be able to do their job properly without interference is also important. we would also echo that gsp should be an incentive: yes, there are obviously consequences if you don’t move forward on it, but let us start with the incentive first and across all countries. this is something we should also be considering in the india free trade agreement, as india also has a big textile sector that needs attention.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, all of us in this house would wish to send our condolences to the people of bangladesh following the horrendous disaster at the rana plaza factory in dhaka. in my london constituency there are more than 150 000 british bangladeshis, some of whom will have lost loved ones in the disaster. as the government of bangladesh knows only too well, this tragedy could easily have been prevented if the building’s negligent owners had adhered to the standards already present within bangladeshi law. nevertheless, we have seen a rash of resolutions about bangladesh in recent months, and there is now a risk that this country could come to feel singled out, when in fact many other nations in the region suffer from similar problems. bangladesh, which is a country i respect, is a stable, secular democracy which deserves our support. certainly there are systemic issues in the garment industry which need to be addressed by retailers, manufacturers and governments alike, but a punitive or hectoring approach by the european union will achieve nothing. threatening trade restrictions through the eu gsp – as some have suggested – is an incredibly retrograde step and would further impoverish the millions of people who depend on the garment industry for their livelihoods. rather, the european union must now aim to work with the bangladeshi governmental authorities constructively, as partners, to ensure that labour conditions are improved and that this kind of tragedy can never happen again. the eu retailers and importers must also monitor their supply chains more closely and ensure better adherence to ilo and health and safety standards.
mr president, i would like to ask the commission to pass on my thanks to commissioner de gucht for his very clear and firm response to these tragedies. i fully support the call for a code of conduct, and as we have just heard, for companies who refuse to comply with it to be named and shamed. the message that must come out of these tragedies is that multinational chains cannot escape their responsibilities by relocating their businesses to developing countries or by holding their hands up and claiming they are not responsible for their supply chain. even if they can get around the law, they cannot get around public opprobrium, and public pressure will be what makes them change. i also fully support binding and enforceable labour standards in trade agreements. the gsp scheme insists that developing countries must ratify and implement core labour standards. i welcome the commission’s decision to open an investigation into bangladesh’s compliance under gsp. let me conclude by making it very clear though that this is not about punishing bangladesh. it is about encouraging them to improve labour conditions and to make sure health and safety standards are high and that workers’ rights are protected. we do not want to punish bangladesh; we want to encourage them onto a better path.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a complex matter, it concerns the transport of animals. it is a question of commercial areas and therefore of the internal market, and it is a question of the free movement of our european citizens who want to travel with their animals in europe, as little as possible in a bureaucratic manner and still in compliance with health and animal welfare regulations. i think we have now found clear rules and mr schnellhardt has rightly thanked the council presidencies of cyprus and ireland, the shadow rapporteurs and the commission. i think we should thank him. first of all, by his negotiating skills and his clever negotiating and compromise skills, he has achieved a joint decision at first reading, a clever and good compromise which solves the majority of problems without bureaucracy. thank you for that. my colleague, mr tonio borg, who is unable to attend today, asked me to signal the commission's full agreement. we see our objectives fully preserved in this revised draft and in the decisions to be taken. we have reached this solution on the basis of the treaty of lisbon and thus in the use of the legislative powers which it confers. some members had and still have some reservations. i therefore want to read out in full, in the original english, the assurance that my colleague, mr tonio borg, intends to give on behalf of the european commission: within the framework of the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals, the commission will study the welfare of dogs and cats involved in commercial practices. if the outcome of that study indicates health risks arising from those commercial practices, the commission will consider appropriate options for the protection of human and animal health, including proposing to the european parliament and to the council appropriate adaptations to current union legislation on trade in dogs and cats, including the introduction of compatible systems for their registration accessible across member states. in the light of the above, the commission will assess the feasibility and appropriateness of extending such registration systems to dogs and cats marked and identified in accordance with union legislation on non-commercial movements of pet animals. i believe that this also takes into account your concerns and concerns. we are counting on your support and the approval of the european parliament. thank you for a wise and far-reaching compromise.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, one of my favourite possessions is a 10-year-old photograph of a ferret called pod. he is looking over my shoulder at a passport i am holding. pod was a manchester ferret, and he was the proud owner of a passport of his own. he had a microchip which demonstrated that he had been vaccinated against rabies, and a microchip is ideal for a ferret, because it is very hard to get a ferret to stay still long enough to have its photograph taken. for 10 years we have allowed ferrets to have passports and dogs to have passports, and cats, i suppose, have pussports, and no doubt, when we introduced that legislation, dogs were excited, ferrets were inquisitive and cats were indifferent, because cats are always indifferent. but the pets passport law has opened up new opportunities. pets now routinely travel across europe for work reasons, for holiday reasons and even for sexual liaisons – to keep up the quality of the breed, of course. there are ferret shows in germany and italy. i was looking at google just yesterday at one of the german shows. there were ferrets from the uk and from countries across europe being exhibited, being paraded around the show ring on leashes, long-haired ferrets, short-haired ferrets, angora ferrets, hybrid ferrets, albino ferrets, black ferrets – and they are judged. i am sure the british ferrets there are achieving higher marks in these competitions than their human contenders do in the eurovision song contest. this was good legislation when we agreed it a decade ago, and i know that our rapporteur has spent time ferreting around to try and improve it. the misery for pets of quarantine has gone, rabies has been kept at bay and we have taken steps here to promote the principle of free movement in ways which no one country could do alone. if british pets could have a vote, i doubt very much whether they would be giving it to nigel farage and the insular views of the uk independence party. on behalf of pod, on behalf of cleo and tabitha, my cats, and their greedy brother, findlay, next door, i commend this legislation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr schnellhardt, for his work on these two reports. as the rapporteur for the original report on the non-commercial movement of pet animals back in 2001, i am pleased to see that the regulation has been successful in making it easier for people to travel with their pets while protecting public health and minimising animal health risks. it followed remarkable success in the vaccination campaign against rabies and the dramatic decline in the number of rabies cases recorded. like chris, i know from my constituency in wales just how popular this scheme has been. people have enjoyed travelling with their cats and dogs – and with ferrets too, because in wales ferrets are very popular pets – on holiday and to visit family and so on. the green/efa group can agree with the main points of the report: the maximum number of animals; certain derogations where there is good evidence for that; standard information document; the very important clear and easily accessible information for pet owners, professionals, authorities and all concerned. we did not support derogations from vaccination, but we can support the compromise which includes limited derogations for very young animals for reasons which the rapporteur put forward very clearly. we also supported an eu-wide database for pet movements, which would have given us more traceability in the event of disease outbreak and would have helped in reducing illegal trade. however, we will support the compromise in the interests of achieving a good agreement. we will support the amendment referring to the commission statement to be attached, looking at the feasibility of a database, and i that hope at a future date this will be agreed. we shall also support the oral amendments. the success of schemes like this, which are so important, depends on effective security measures but also on retaining confidence, and i believe we have achieved this.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, 90% of pet owners consider their pets to be members of the family. it stands to reason, therefore, that owners should be able to take their furry friends safely and easily to a third country when moving or travelling abroad. before 2001, travelling abroad for pets used to be a dog’s life. animals travelling to the uk, for example, spent up to six months in quarantine. now it is much easier for our pets to travel alongside their families, and i support the rapporteur’s goals of making it even simpler. however, this report is also about protecting animal health and human health, and i am pleased the report has introduced measures which also increase vigilance. it is important that member states conduct compliance checks on animals entering their territory from another member state. it is also important that measures are introduced to protect against fraudulent use of pet passports. at the committee stage i put forward amendments which would make microchips mandatory for pets travelling abroad. i regret that the current report allows the continuation of tattoos, which can easily be forged. identification and traceability is an important issue, and i am pleased that the uk government has recently introduced measures which mean that all dogs will need to be microchipped by 2016. of course, for travel to the uk, ireland and malta only animals with microchips will be admitted. i am also pleased that there is a derogation for member states with rabies-free status, which will mean animals will be able to move much more easily. so i congratulate the rapporteur on behalf of my furry friends, such as bruno and huggy-huggy, and i look forward to supporting this report.
mr president, i welcome this set of proposals aimed at simplifying existing rules on non-commercial transportation of pet animals. whilst ensuring that existing and relevant safeguards are maintained, it is imperative to ensure that proper compliance checks are carried out on pet animals moving between member states and that we remove unwarranted barriers in order to create an efficient system of transportation. i support the recommendations to protect against fraudulent use of pet passports and call for sufficient measures to protect the public from any animal health risks, such as rabies. given that the united kingdom has been rabies-free for over a hundred years, it is most pertinent. overall this is a good, well-reasoned report, and i trust in member states’ prudence when implementing pet animal transportation procedures. i am confident that the proposals outlined will not erode the current system and that we can continue to transport our pets with minimal fuss and red tape.
mr president, i would just like to apologise, as we have a slight error on the alde voting list and we should have had a plus on amendment 5. please could we have a plus on amendment 5.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this because the customs union is an essential element in the functioning of the single market and the single market can only function properly when there is a common, consistent application of common, modern customs rules and systems.
in writing. − the customs union is an essential element in the functioning of the single market and i support this directive as it can only function properly when there is a consistent application of common, modern customs rules and systems. this update will benefit the single market and encourage growth.
mr president, this report highlights an aspect of the european union that even now, after half a century, is not widely understood, namely that it is not a free market but a customs union, none of whose members is free independently to sign a bilateral trade agreement with a third country. a month ago, iceland – with a population of 320 000 people – signed a free trade agreement with china. switzerland is negotiating something similar. however, we – a nation of 62 million, a trading maritime people whose colonising and enterprising energies have touched every continent – cannot sign a free trade agreement with china or with anyone else. we contracted out our commercial policy to the european commission on 1 january 1973. we cannot, as a people without great natural resources, survive in the world except by buying and selling, and that means being where the customers are. every continent in the world is now growing, except europe. we find ourselves confined in a cramped and dwindling customs union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the human rights situation in burma has changed considerably, and although most sanctions that were placed on the country have already been lifted, its general tariff preferences have not been reinstated. in order for the country to continue developing, it is important for it to have a good export industry. my constituents in wales send me a great deal of correspondence on human rights and want to ensure that countries are treated fairly by the eu and by the international community.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe progress in burma remains fragile and it is important that the measures adopted today will contribute to a sustainable peace and a positive development.
in writing. − burma’s progress on democracy and human rights should be encouraged, and this report does that. but i strongly believe in the necessity of preserving the strong csr elements which fell in committee and which were presented again today. as we have seen recently in bangladesh, these initiatives should be in place and will be vital for ensuring labour rights in developing countries.
mr president, i just wanted to remark on the extraordinary spectacle that we saw yesterday, when discussing the measures that pertained to tax avoidance and tax evasion. is it beyond this house to see the irony of us complaining about tax avoidance when, with the exception of three member states, meps themselves do not pay tax? they do not pay national taxes but pay only a flat-rate eu tax equivalent to less than 15%. o wad some power the giftie gie us, to see oursels as ithers see us!
in writing. − i voted in favour of this because while this clarity is necessary, i entirely disagree with the principle that businesses from developed countries can challenge legislation on public health, environmental standards or labour rights.
in writing. − i support this report and the principle that the ‘polluter pays’. it is legitimate that in some cases the commission must be more involved in a member state case to ensure coherence across the eu. like my colleagues, i am opposed to isds in this report.
in writing. − i support this because responsible investment can be a positive factor in political and economic development in burma. due to the particularly fragile state of the country, csr is key.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which is a revision of the 2001 ‘pet passport’ law, for which i was rapporteur. the 2001 law made it a lot easier for people to travel with pets, and this update resolves some remaining issues and makes it clearer and more effective. i do, however, regret that the greens/efa amendment on establishing a europe-wide database was rejected at committee. thanks to the adoption of this report, it will be even easier for my constituents to travel from wales to other countries in europe with their pets. i know that this will be welcomed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this because the regulation is being updated to make the rules more clear and accessible for citizens.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report which seeks to lay down health requirements for pets travelling with their owners. this is important to help prevent instances such as the spread of disease. in my constituency of london, with a high density of pet ownership, the introduction of rabies into a certified rabies-free region could have serious consquences for pet and livestock populations. i further welcome the derogation for transportation between certified rabies-free states, such as the uk and ireland, the allowance of non-vets to implant microchips so as to reduce the burden on animal welfare organisations, and the measures taken to ensure that the regulation is not abused for commercial purposes.
in writing. − i support this directive as it clarifies the requirements for the movement of pets while at the same time ensures against the people fraudulently using this law in order to trade animals. i welcome the derogation to allow pets to go to sporting and exhibition events.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which makes the law clearer and more effective. i welcome the addition which extends the requirements of the clinical examination to 48 hours before travelling; this is in accordance with recommendations by the world organisation for animal health. thanks to the adoption of this report, it will be even easier for my constituents to travel from wales to other countries in europe with their pets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this because the current directive makes reference to regulation (ec) no 998/2003 on the non-commercial movement of pet animals. as this regulation is being replaced, it is necessary to amend the directive to take account of this and of other new relevant legislation, such as that on the protection of animals during transport.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which further strengthens the requirement that member states inform each other and the commission before taking economic policy decisions with expected significant spill-over effects, which could potentially jeopardise the smooth functioning of the internal market and of the emu. this will help to prevent any future crises in the eu. the economic crisis has hit wales hard, and we need to ensure that all the correct mechanisms are in place to ensure that such a crisis does not reoccur.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. over 94 000 people have died since the start of the conflict in syria. the eu must play a leading role in preventing the armed conflict in syria from spilling over into neighbouring countries. the report calls on the commission to present an aid package to address the humanitarian crisis in syria. my constituents in wales express their concerns to me about this appalling crisis.
in writing. − i voted for this because the situation is untenable. if we do not take action now an estimated 3.5 million refugees will need emergency humanitarian assistance by the end of this year.
in writing. − the current situation in syria has resulted in a humanitarian crisis. in a civil war that has lasted and escalated over two years since march 2011, around 1.4 million people are estimated to have been made refugees as a result of the violence and have fled to turkey, lebanon, jordan and iraq. it is currently estimated that 8 000 people are leaving syria every day. there are doubts as to whether the eu aid of eur 473 million, delivered since 2011, has really been efficiently used, appropriately allocated, or even reached the intended recipients. reports of attacks on refugee camps, the possible use of chemical weapons by assad on his own people, and the recent destabilising situation in the lebanon as regards hezbollah, all will have the effect of increasing the diaspora of refugees, but in a less predictable manner. this is increasing considerably the burden on un and eu agencies trying to meet the needs of these refugees. no matter the decision made by the eu on the arms embargo, it is vital that we continue to meet the needs of the most vulnerable and the dispossessed in this conflict.
in writing. − the syrian crisis shows no signs of abating. indeed, every time we come to discuss this disaster, the situation seems bleaker. eighty thousand dead now seems like a conservative estimate, with the refugees and internally displaced persons numbering several million. the plans for combating this epic catastrophe stutter on, but in the meantime we must do everything we can to assist the refugees. the infrastructures of jordan, lebanon and iraq, in particular, are by no means perfectly adjusted to receiving a vast influx of people. these countries, combined with turkey, must therefore be supported with the necessary tools and resources to build adequate facilities for the refugees, which could potentially be used longer-term, should that become necessary. we must lay on special provisions for the many millions of children, in particular, affected by this crisis. the key to future reconstruction lies in offering hope and stability to the children who will build it – so they must be afforded the maximum care, protection and education to guarantee as normal a childhood as the circumstances permit. in the meantime, we continue our calls for an end to this disaster.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this call on the eu to increase efforts in the field of asset recovery to egypt, libya, and tunisia. i believe this is vital in order to show the eu’s support for democratic transition and economic recovery in these countries. this motion calls on the european external action service to lead and to encourage cooperation. i know my constituents, who value democracy, will welcome the progress made in these difficult transitional times in the region, and i gladly support this motion, which will aid that process.
in writing. − it is both an economic and moral imperative that misappropriated assets from arab spring countries are repatriated in the wake of the revolutions. despite public commitments from western governments such as britain that they are committed to helping return stolen assets belonging to arab spring countries, millions of pounds of assets remain unfrozen in the uk, and arab prosecutors have complained that their requests are often held up or rejected by european governments on technicalities. we must commit to returning these assets and not protect dirty money. i welcome this report and the emphasis it places on returning these assets. the issue is a key point of justice and accountability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2012 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. the prospect of possible future eu membership is one of the most unifying factors amongst the people of bosnia and herzegovina. welcome progress is being made, but there is still some way to go in fostering a climate of stability, tolerance and reconciliation. the people of wales feel solidarity with other small nations across the world, and we must do what we can to help encourage peace, conflict resolution and progress both at home and abroad.
in writing. − i was happy to vote in favour of the progress report on macedonia. the high level accession dialogue (hlad) has started with the aim of dealing with the main issues surrounding accession without formally opening negotiations. progress has been made in around 75% of the policy areas defined, but further efforts are needed to strengthen political dialogue, guarantee the impartiality and independence of the judiciary, and tackle discrimination. the people of wales feel solidarity with other small nations across the world, and we must do what we can to help encourage peace, conflict resolution and progress both at home and abroad.
in writing. − the agreement as it stands is very narrowly focused on trade and investment, and brings back to the table many things that have been dismissed in the past; some examples would be the freedom to import gmo products; the us belief that data protection is bad for business; acta and the whole area of intellectual property rights; the state-investor dispute settlement system whereby a company can sue a state for lost revenue if legislation, environmental or otherwise, would affect business. other areas of concern include the lack of examination on how this agreement would affect existing and ongoing bilateral trade negotiations, the potential deregulation of financial sectors, that the process will not be conducted in a sufficiently transparent manner, and the effect that a merging of our agriculture sectors would have, particularly on smaller, less competitive countries. as there is no meaningful impact assessment, nor consultation with affected parties, i voted against this agreement.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution as a whole but was in favour of the greens/efa resolution. the contested paragraph 11 of the inta resolution on the exemption of audiovisual services from the negotiations was retained. unfortunately, a majority of parliament did not vote for more transparency in the ttip negotiations. i believe we must do what we can to ensure transparency in order to prevent any abuse of these processes. our amendments regarding the regional bans on hydrofluorocarbons and the removal of us and russian tactical nuclear weapons from europe and western russia were also rejected. i know it is important to my constituents in wales to strive for progress, peace, and justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this because the deal will cover over 40 % of world trade, greatly helping the uk compete with china. this is equally important in terms of setting high global standards for trade. we have to get this right. if eu-us do not set these standards, then china will.
in writing. − i support this resolution and i support a wide-ranging mandate for the ttip, but i do not support the exclusion of the cultural and audiovisual sector.
in writing. − in 1997 burma’s access to the generalised system of tariff preferences (gsp) was temporarily withdrawn. since burma’s recent programme of reform, however, there is a case to be made that now is the appropriate time to reinstate that access. the ilo has concluded that violations in burma are no longer ‘serious and systematic’, and agreed that tariff preferences should be reinstated. whilst this progress is encouraging, the continued human rights abuses in burma should not be forgotten. since april 2012 exiles have been welcomed back to burma and thousands of political prisoners have been released. nevertheless, many political prisoners remain in jail and ethnic violence in rohingya state is of concern. it is important that the symbolic weight of this proposal be valued equally as much as the financial benefit to burma – the eu can act positively to ensure that the country’s human rights agenda is progressed as extensively as is possible. the eu is already working actively, as demonstrated by the founding of the burma peace centre in yangon. i am therefore minded to support this move and believe that it will contribute to the wider movement of reintegrating burma back into the global economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution. i believe a macro-region of the alps would not only improve the functionality of existing structures but also ensure the sustainable implementation of european legislation and of the europe 2020 strategy. sustainable development and progress is a priority for us in wales, and believe it is important for us to face the challenges of the future together with other regions of europe in a way that will help the economy and also the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour, and i welcome the strengthening of the demand for workers’ rights in bangladesh. the recent tragedies could have been prevented, and we must do what we can to help workers around the globe. we in wales have a long history of promoting workers’ rights – from the co-operative movement to being officially recognised as the first fair trade nation in the world. the fair treatment of workers is very important to my constituents in wales, and i welcome such strong calls for change in bangladesh and elsewhere.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this because this man-made disaster is the worst tragedy in the history of the global garment industry.
in writing. − last month i tabled a series of parliamentary questions including a priority question relating to the recent rana plaza factory collapse, the corporate social responsibility of european companies linked to the tragedy, and eu action on this ongoing issue. this is not the first factory disaster in bangladesh, simply the latest in a series over the past twelve months. the commission’s guidelines on csr contain only one reference to the responsibilities of eu companies operating outside the eu, but i think their actions matter as much in third countries as well as within the single market, especially when europeans are the end-user of a product. the company operating the rana plaza complex had not signed up to the bangladesh fire and safety code. if eu companies had more responsibility to monitor their supply chain, the bangladeshi company would have had more pressure to comply with safety and labour laws. on behalf of my london constituents, i will continue to pursue this issue.
author. − mr president, first of all i would like to express my condolences to the family of mohammad afzal guru. it is utterly unacceptable that his family were not informed of his imminent execution: the execution was carried out and immediately his body was kept in the prison, and there has been quite a campaign to get it returned to his family. the liberals and democrats always strongly oppose the death penalty wherever it is and in whatever circumstances, and the european union also takes that view. still too many countries, particularly in the region of southern asia, either do not have a moratorium on the death penalty or are crumbling around the edges about this issue. we are seeing this not only in india (this is the second instance); we also saw in pakistan that their moratorium was broken last year. india is the largest democracy in the world, as others have pointed out, and should be a leader instead of lagging behind in this respect. india should also be very careful that any action does not undermine the peace process in kashmir. we have seen some particular disturbances related to this execution, and a lot of the people on death row are not only other separatists but separatists of the sikh cause. i worry that this is a precedent and that we could see this being used in a political sense in the run-up to the next indian election. i think there is a view that some of those on death row who are most at risk are likely to be those of a political nature, with political contexts. i strongly urge high representative / vice-president lady ashton to use both strong and diplomatic language – and pressure – to send this message of our firm and strict opposition to the death penalty.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think it is appropriate that i make a formal application under rule 175 that my report on the use of passenger name record data, which was due to be put to the vote on wednesday of this week, is removed from the agenda and returned to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for the purposes of pursuing further compromises. i hope that will be agreed by the house and by yourself.
president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for his hard work and, in particular, his very pragmatic and positive approach to the work he has undertaken. this mid-term report is a litmus test for the final report and, whilst there is much in here that we strongly support – most importantly, the tough stance on fighting cross-border crime – i would, however, urge parliament not to make the final report a veritable christmas tree which collapses under the sheer weight of loads of ideas. instead, we need to create a strong, coherent final report with a deliberate focus and targeted set of priorities. most importantly, we need to be one step ahead of criminals and criminal activity, rather than one step behind. at the moment we are, frankly, trailing well behind. this is a massive problem, causing huge economic and social damage to all of us. i strongly believe that the best antidote to cross-border crime, and indeed cybercrime, is the sharing of information, but obviously with appropriate safeguards in place and also speed, efficiency and precision in the work that we do. i hope that we take a step back before the final report and produce a final proposal which fully equips europe to face the big challenges which lie ahead of us in the future.
mr president, the economies of europe are in deep crisis, and unemployment is reaching record levels. but there is one boom industry offering unprecedented employment opportunities. that of course is organised crime. this report recognises the seriousness of the situation and offers the solution we have come to expect on every occasion, namely a common european approach and more harmonised laws. but it is precisely the common european approach that has helped create the problem in the first place. every annual europol organised crime threat assessment report since 2009 has said that the root cause for the growth of organised crime across europe is the eu’s own open-borders policy. this report suggests the creation of an ‘intelligence training centre’. however, the intelligent thing to do would not be to set up another institution expanding the power of the eu, but to reintroduce border controls to prevent the free movement of criminals in the first place.
mr president, the solution to these problems, we are told, is more eu legislation and greater competence for the eu. unlike the literary character topsy, organised crime did not just grow: it has been facilitated by the eu. schengen removed borders for organised crime just as it did for legitimate business. drugs, arms and trafficked people can be more easily moved. a single currency makes it possible to launder the profits of crime much more easily anywhere in the zone, just as lax immigration controls and connivance with bogus asylum claims allow criminals and sometimes their wares to pass from one country and one continent to another. of course, not all organised crime involves crossing frontiers. the predominance of the same distinct population groups both in ostensibly legitimate cash business such as taxi firms and take-away food shops, and in drug dealing and prostitution, allows the profits of the latter to be laundered through the former.
mr president, may i first of all take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report, as well as all involved in the committee’s work on this. certainly, when i first got involved i did not realise the extent of smuggling and the loss to the revenue that this brings. in my own region we have a massive problem with diesel smuggling and tobacco smuggling. also, though i did not realise it, people-trafficking through my region into the united kingdom mainland is substantial, and it is only the good work of the local police in recent times that has been able to save many people from this particular problem. i think many of us do not really think about and appreciate the work that the police and many others do across borders, working together to actually grasp these very serious problems which we have in our midst and which, sometimes, are going on under our noses without us knowing what is happening. so i think more must be done and i wish the rapporteur well as he works on this final report.
mr president, i am very pleased, as i was the rapporteur on organised crime in the last parliament, to see that this issue is now rising in public awareness as an extremely important danger that we are facing. statistics on the activity of organised crime are very hard to come by because, unfortunately, the gangs do not publish reports, and even industries do not know the damage that is being done to them. but what is clear from the committee’s work is that millions of jobs are being lost by counterfeiting and cyber-theft and hundreds of billions of taxes are being forfeited each year. one of the most startling findings that i noticed in the committee’s work was that, of the containers which take our imports and exports in and out of europe by road, rail, sea and air, only up to five percent are ever checked. ninety-five percent sail through with counterfeit goods and all sorts of horrible things, some of which are life-threatening. we have to do something about that. another thing which is astonishing is the lack of cooperation between the member states. they each live in their own little world, prefer to do it their own way and do not trust each other. we are being seriously damaged by their failures. the liberal group strongly supports setting up a permanent subcommittee on organised crime in the next parliament in order to put pressure on the commission to make sure they keep on top of this job. i am sure the present commissioner will do that. i hope she comes back and goes on doing this, but we want to put pressure on whoever is doing it. in conclusion i would like to say that my impression from this committee is that our society faces a clear and growing danger from organised crime. if we fail to react and the member states fail to learn to work together, the whole future of a prosperous europe is genuinely at risk.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank elisabeth morin-chartier for her cooperation and her inclusiveness in dealing with this file, and to pay tribute to the enormous work of amount of work she has put in over many months. in fact she has been working on this file for longer than i have been a member of the parliament. the issue of electromagnetic fields, and the need to protect the health and safety of workers while also providing sufficient flexibility for innovation, are important issues that have provoked widespread debate. i think the failure of the 2004 directive demonstrates that we must base our proposals on robust, scientific evidence so that we can ensure effective health protection, rather than creating a bureaucratic minefield that, even with the best of intentions, leads to unintended consequences. i am very pleased that we have been able to amend the commission’s proposals to ensure that mri scanners can continue to be used across the eu. i strongly believe that we should only legislate in areas where the eu can add real value. it is important that the right balance is reached between sufficient flexibility for member states and ensuring that workers are protected. even taking into account the progress that has been made, i still believe that we have gone down the wrong path with this directive and that, through a non-legislative approach, we could have achieved the same outcome at a fraction of the cost to industry.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 june 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the commission communication entitled ‘towards social investment for growth and cohesion – including implementing the european social fund 2014-2020’ (com(2013)0083) by pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000057/2013 – b7-0207/2013) (2013/2607(rsp).
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for the close attention which parliament has devoted to the social investment package. it is clear from your question that the commission and parliament are on the same page regarding the importance of social investment. i thank ms berès for highlighting the very important role the european social fund plays in social investment. you ask first about the governance of the europe 2020 strategy. over the past three years the commission has published white papers on pensions, the employment package, the youth employment package, and the social investment package. these four initiatives together constitute comprehensive policy guidance to member states on the policies and national reforms needed to address the major challenges europe’s social and employment systems are facing, and to deliver on the agreed europe 2020 targets. the implementation of these packages will contribute to fostering competiveness and inclusive growth, and help reduce divergences between employment and social situations from member state to member state, which are a particular concern within the monetary union. the commission will explore ways to strengthen guidance to member states, for example by incorporating in the employment guidelines a set of policy benchmarks building on the policy packages developed and recommendations adopted in recent years, for example on the youth guarantee or on child poverty. such policy benchmarks would help step up coordination and surveillance of employment and social policies, which is an important element of efforts to strengthen the social dimension of the emu. in line with the social investment approach, we need to ensure that employment and social problems are tackled early on. to strengthen coordination and surveillance in the employment and social areas, we can build on recently developed instruments, such as the employment protection monitor, the social protection performance monitor, and the instruments of the european semester. a scoreboard of key indicators enabling the detection of major employment and social challenges relevant to the smooth functioning of the monetary union will henceforth be incorporated in the draft joint employment report. the commission has already worked to reflect the social investment approach in the country-specific recommendations (csrs) issued on 29 may. there is an increased number of csrs addressing poverty, in particular child poverty, women’s participation in the labour market, active inclusion and the integration of disadvantaged groups, including roma. turning to your second question, your report last year calling for a social investment pact was very welcome, and prefigured the very same approach to social policy as the social investment package. in particular, you highlighted the importance of recognising that social investment is indeed investment that needs to be taken into account in all areas of policy, including fiscal policy. at present the commission is concentrating its efforts to follow up the package in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, and in particular the european semester, since this is the key policy framework at european level to which all member states have committed themselves in relation to social and employment issues alongside economic issues. europe 2020 is also a process that provides for an important role for civil society and the social partners at national and european level, the latter notably through the flagship initiative on the platform against poverty and social exclusion. on the third question, the commission is working with the indicators sub-group of the social protection committee (spc) and other concerned parties to identify the relevant indicators to assess implementation of active-inclusion strategies at member-state level for each pillar, as well as for the overall strategy. currently, progress in relation to benefit coverage and adequacy, access to services and activation is monitored in the framework of the european semester. the commission is developing, in cooperation with the spc, a methodology for reference budgets to provide the member states with a concrete tool to monitor adequate income support. lastly, concerning your fourth question, the commission did not propose social impact bonds. they are mentioned in the social investment package as an innovative approach to financing. member states are invited to pay more attention to mobilising extra private-sector resources in favour of social programmes and to improve their efficiency, especially in areas where traditional instruments have proved to be less successful, for example long-term homelessness or reoffending. the commission plans to support these innovative approaches by facilitating the exchange of experience and by further analysing the effectiveness of such an approach, together with ways eu funds can help to mainstream and upscale current projects. when i mention eu funds, i mean in particular the european social fund.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, while we broadly welcome the social investment package we felt that much of it was very ‘soft’, and almost a reworking of a number of things which we have heard before. obviously, we are pleased that we are looking at social investment and the importance of an economic stabiliser being recognised as part of our social protection system. but the issue of adequacy, i think, is still one that many of us are really concerned about. we are seeing more people in poverty now than ever, and we also seem to be losing track of any idea of actually trying to create greater equality in our societies by reducing the gap between rich and poor, not simply looking at how we raise those at the bottom. the quality of public services is important, obviously, and there is a real area for investment there, including in jobs. but i also want to say something about the recommendation on children. many people are very worried about demographics in the european union, and here we have a recommendation which is a very strong one in terms of the focus on early intervention. we are concerned about nutrition globally, in terms of poverty reduction measures and making the best of children’s futures, and we are seeing a growing need for emergency food aid here. we are seeing vaccination programmes here under threat. we know what happens to children’s life chances if they are in poor housing. the high-quality child care model set out in the barcelona targets seems to be really mouldering. so where do we really see the action coming on this, not just the policy? what can we expect from the member states in terms of a range of ministers really working with the economic ministers who seem to be totally in charge of things at the moment? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – it is equality within states and between member states. if you look at some of the impact there at the moment from various social systems, you can see that there are member states within which there is a greater equality – both newer and older member states. it is as much to do with the systems and the values that you put in place as anything else. therefore the issue of making sure that you have a level of social security which means that people are not left in poverty becomes absolutely crucial. it is not only about older and newer. there are lessons to be learned from, say, the czech republic just as there are from sweden or denmark.
colleagues, during these blue-card interventions the time is 30 seconds each, speaker and questioner.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this revised regulation will place a greater emphasis on consumers who are truly vulnerable members of society. this includes infants, young children and people with medical conditions. by focusing on medical food and foods for infants and children, the revised directive will make it easier to ensure quality and security while allowing consumers to make an informed choice. i welcome the decision to have other foods, such as so-called sports foods and foods for people with gluten or lactose intolerance, covered by the general food legislation. the proposals do not cover the complex legal situation of so-called growing up milks or toddlers’ milks but instead refer the question back to the commissioner to take a view if necessary. in addition to the benefits to consumers, the revised legislation still allows industry to be innovative. we need rules which are flexible enough to allow manufacturers to quickly create and bring to market new products which benefit patients. many children, elderly people and those suffering or recovering from serious illness require special food products to survive. i am confident that the legislation as it stands will provide vulnerable consumers with protection by ensuring that the limited range of food products is labelled in a clear and appropriate way. i congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
madam president, commissioner. this food legislation, known in the trade as parnuts, is fortunately not as dangerous as it sounds. a year ago, ukip voted to repeal the amendment of sports nutrition supplements from the scope of this regulation, and for once we were successful. a bit less power for the european commission and all its unnecessary quangos is the way that we see it. naturally, this small victory for common sense was not based on the commission or the environment committee scaling back their ambition, but on the successful lobbying of essna, a small but dynamic alliance of sports nutrition companies made up of two dozen small but innovative companies – primarily from the uk – which export sports drinks and protein bars. it was the culmination of years of handiwork on their part. it is nice to reward such efforts and win a vote – even such a small vote. however, i would prefer this legislation to be made at national level.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the events of the last few days, and the information published by the guardian last week with regard to the top-secret us surveillance system ‘prism’ enacted by the national security agency (nsa), allegedly in cooperation with world it giants like apple, facebook, google, microsoft, skype, youtube and aol – trusted major companies – have caused shock to our european citizens. the s&d group is very clear that, while security is important, this has caused a major breach of trust for our citizens. we in the s&d group regard it as vitally important that, at the ministerial meeting on 13 and 14 june, the parliament and all the political groups give the commissioner support in holding eric holder and the united states to account for what they have done in allegedly transferring bulk information belonging to our citizens. such transfers may be completely unnecessary in the fight against terrorism and in the fight for security of our citizens, and represent a breach of trust in the way that data is secured and in the fight against terrorism and to maintain security. it is vital to maintain the right balance between security and the need to protect data. the reports in the guardian, the washington post and the new york times seem to show that these companies, required by the nsa to share information for anti-terrorism purposes under the foreign intelligence surveillance act (fisa) and upon secret fisa court orders, agreed to do so and provided us intelligence agencies with access to their servers, and possibly enabled the us intelligence community to send queries directly to company-managed secure online rooms. we are particularly concerned that generalised access to, and mass processing of, eu citizens’ data for law enforcement or other purposes may have taken place under the responsibility of the above-mentioned companies in the framework of this programme in a way that is non-compliant with the eu data protection legislation in force. we are also worried by the absence of an overall transatlantic legal framework ensuring the protection of personal data, especially considering that negotiations on an umbrella data protection agreement between the eu and the us have been ongoing since 2011 but seem currently to be stalled. for all of these reasons, we wish to ensure that the commissioner holds the us to account and ensures that when the us public authorities process us citizens’ data, they do so within our standards. secondly we wish to reaffirm our commitment to a high-level agreement on the proposed data protection reform package, along the lines originally defined in our proposals and reinforced by amendments tabled by the ep rapporteurs and shadows on improving protection requirements. in this context, we deem it quite clear that an eu legal framework for data protection, law enforcement and security purposes by public and private actors remains extremely relevant and cannot in any way be delayed. finally, we believe that special attention must be paid to issues related to data protection and data flows in negotiations on the important eu-us transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) agreement, in order to ensure that primary eu legislation in this field is maintained. we are well aware of the commission’s commitment to hold the us to account in relation to data flows, but it is extremely important, in the light of the prism and nsa issue, that eu citizens are given assurances as to what can happen. in my own member state, the united kingdom, there is serious concern about what has happened. trust has clearly been breached. it is now up to the eu to play its role in ensuring that we hold the united states to account for what it has done in this case, that our standards are maintained and that eu citizens are assured that the right standards are maintained.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, the debate here today is about increasing the trust and faith of citizens in holding to account governments and agencies that serve and protect them. those companies already named and shamed have so far denied acting outside the law. governments and the european commission have expressed concern, we have heard this morning, but rightly acknowledge that it is currently too early to draw final conclusions. yet here we are, already pointing the finger, with some of you already expressing strong anti-american or anti-commission rhetoric which is all too familiar, as is the opportunism and grandstanding without pausing to gather facts or proof. this plenary is no stranger to the practice of convicting a defendant before the trial. this parliament is currently working hard on reforming its data protection rules and is still pursuing agreement on data exchange with the united states, something which i and my group support. key to the success of being able to protect our citizens beyond our own borders is our relationship with other countries. yet i would caution that often the way in which some members of this house articulate themselves does little to bring us together on values but instead pushes us further apart. protecting citizens from modern threats is a balancing act. intelligence agencies are often lambasted for not acting soon enough and then equally condemned for going too far. their successes are celebrated in private but their failings are only too public. increasingly, as we know, terrorists and organised criminal groups use information and technology against innocent citizens. therefore there must be an expectation that the same technology will be used in our response. but that information must be used and respected within the confines of democratic principles and legal oversight. we must understand that we do not gain more freedoms by taking others away and that our greatest asset will always be the rule of law. that is why sometimes it is necessary for us politicians to remind those with less visible power that ensuring freedom and the safety of our citizens must not come at the ultimate price of sacrificing democracy. but it might also be worth some people in this room remembering who the real enemy is and where it is, and that when we deal with allies and when we want answers and the truth, friends listen most when you talk and not when you shout.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. − mr president, this new fund is one of the next mff’s important new initiatives. therefore, i was pleased to draft the opinion for the committee on budgets. the committee on budgets fully supports the creation of this fund. indeed, we believe that food banks are currently one of the few growth industries in many parts of europe. we believe that this fund should be eur 3.5 billion, not eur 2.5 billion, if it is to have a big impact. we also believe that the fund should be made available to all member states, although they should be given some flexibility as to how they use the new fund. on co-financing, i support an 85% figure. however, i accept that in some cases 95% would be more acceptable, particularly in member states which are facing severe financial difficulties at the moment. finally, as the fund is now an esf programme, i believe that we need to make sure that the rules are as simple as possible for those organisations which want to deliver this aid.
mr president, while i welcome this debate about poverty in europe, i think that using eu funding to tackle domestic poverty issues is highly unfair to the taxpayers of those few countries that actually make significant contributions to the eu budget. in the uk, there is a growing resentment towards those member states that are seen as being takers. it is deeply regrettable that the uk, with its great tradition of helping those less fortunate than itself, has a growing resentment about funding this or that eu project while british people are suffering crippling cutbacks at home. no wonder more and more people are turning against the european union. only last week, the leading philanthropist bill gates, a regular visitor to the european parliament, congratulated the united kingdom on its remarkable record in foreign aid – a record, incidentally, that the eu likes to piggyback on and take credit for. this report acknowledges that member states should take responsibility for issues of poverty and social inclusion, and that the fund for european aid and the most deprived should not be seen as replacing those responsibilities. but what message is being sent out by the call for an increased budget for the fund for 2014-2020? who will supply this extra money: the 200 000 british citizens who are dependent on food banks in order to feed their families, or the growing army of unemployed youth? the economic crisis, largely the fault of the eurozone, is now so bad that we have to say charity begins at home.
mr president, i have a couple of questions, but firstly i would like to make it absolutely clear that it is scandalous that we even have to look at having a food distribution programme in the european union and that people are living in poverty and, secondly, that if we are going to, i certainly would support such a fund. however, i would like some clarification. if each country is expected to participate but does not use the allocated money, what happens to that money as foreseen under this proposal? is it reallocated within the fund or does it go back to the general budget? secondly, in some accounts of the allocation that i have seen, the uk and germany, for example, could do very well out of this fund in terms of getting significant amounts of money and other countries, some of whom have been dependent on this fund, such as spain and portugal, would actually have a lower allocation of monies as a result of germany and the uk, etc. getting so much. is that correct? thirdly, does one presume, given that this financing is coming from the european social fund envelope, that if countries are taking money for the food aid fund from that envelope, they will have less to use from the social fund for other things?
mr president, half a million people in britain are relying on food aid to fend off starvation, with a 230% rise in numbers in my own east of england constituency. foodshare – the uk charity providing emergency food aid to 40 000 people per day through food banks, homelessness and domestic violence shelters – crisis and the salvation army are pleading with us for europe to agree this aid, yet david cameron and the british conservatives, for ideological reasons, are intent on denying them even the crumbs off the table. to the liberals as well as the tories i say it is utter hypocrisy for the british government to say it opposes this aid on the grounds that this is a matter for national governments and not europe, when it has no intention whatsoever of addressing that matter. in britain, all the major brands and retailers including tesco, sainsbury and asda have committed to fareshare that no good food is wasted. britain’s government should not be allowed to waste this opportunity to match them by helping feed the most hungry ....... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. − this is one of two reports, largely technical and concerning alignment with lisbon. this report includes a proposal for a stricter definition of the circumstances under which the commission may adopt delegated acts in order to adapt fishing mortality rates, and the associated spawning stock biomass levels, to scientific findings. i oppose the proposal as i firmly believe that fishing politics as a whole should be returned to national state competences. fishery is hugely important to wales and welsh fishermen should not be harmed any more by unnecessary eu regulations concerning methods for calculating fishing capacity, adjusting maximum capacity levels or indeed any other rules. i believe that cfp should be revoked as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which includes an amendment tabled by my group in parliament which deletes a reference to 2009 – which gives back the flexibility originally intended to the system. this will prevent fishing being concentrated in particular areas, resulting in more discards and more waste. although a relatively small industry, fishing is important to wales, and it is important to my constituents that cod is fished sustainably and conscientiously.
in writing. − i welcome the inclusion in this proposal of a stricter definition of the circumstances under which the commission may adopt delegated acts.
in writing. − as a report that is designed to help preserve cod-stocks and making fishing in our waters sustainable, i am happy to support it.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it calls for a clearer role for the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stefc) and regional advisory councils (racs) and i find this very important.
in writing. − against i oppose this report as i find it completely unacceptable to waste taxpayers’ money on the procedure of waiving immunity in relation to a minor road offence (ignoring a ‘no left turn’ sign and crossing a double white line).
in writing. − i voted to waive this member’s immunity, as the accusation manifestly bears no relation to jacek olgierd kurski’s position as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted for this as i do not believe mr. kurski should have immunity.
in writing. − against. according to the rapporteur, this whole case may be a stitch-up – however, in my humble opinion, any situation in which an mep is accused of fraud should be examined in a court of law. i also believe that privileges such as free ‘holiday courses’ – offered at the expense of taxpayers – are unacceptable and therefore should be banished in this hard time of austerity.
in writing. − as this is a case where the existence of a fumus persecutionis may be assumed, i voted not to waive the immunity of ms małgorzata handzlik.
in writing. − for. i voted in favour of this waiver of immunity as i believe that an accusation of such a serious crime as motor manslaughter should be examined in a court of law.
in writing. − as no evidence of fumus persecutionis has been established in this case, i voted to waive the immunity of alexander alvaro.
madam president, there is an element of oxymoron in this debate and in its title ‘consumer policy’. consumers do not do the policy bit. it is governments that do the policy. consumerism is what happens without state intervention. there is something rather comical about the attempts of this chamber and of national governments to leap on market mechanisms and try to conscript them to a statist cause, such as when we have reports saying ‘let us have best practice’. best practice is something that spreads without anyone needing to make it do so by a process of an organic nature. when a bunch of bureaucrats get together and decree what best practice is, then, by definition, that is something different. it is the same when it comes to consumer rights and preferences. people sometimes say that i have a dogmatic attachment to these free market models, but the other way round dogma means clinging to a belief in the face of evidence. on paper you would think that a planned economy would work much better than randomly allowing everybody to do their own thing, higgledy-piggledy. but the reality is that this random process of creative destruction has raised our species to an unprecedented degree of wealth. it is the opposite of a dogma; it is a pragma.
madam president, one of the great things about the single market is the ability of consumers in one member state to be able to purchase goods and perhaps services in another member state, and that is one of the great advantages. but the downside to that is when consumers face problems. unfortunately there have been a number of times when consumers have faced problems, and constituents have written to me about this issue and they have found no system of redress. so it is quite clear that what needs to happen is that there should be better information for the consumers as to where they can turn when there are problems. of course you can have the bureaucratic hand that mandates certain procedures, but at the end of the day what we need to do is make sure that our consumers who have the information to be able to buy goods and services from across the eu also have the information to know where to turn when things go wrong, working with consumer organisations and others to make sure they are actually looked after. and let us make sure the consumer organisations actually represent consumers rather than spend all their time here lobbying for causes which are often against consumers’ interests. if we can get that right, we can get the right consumer policy.
in writing. − i voted against this report as recent examples such as the horsemeat scandal demonstrate that an eu presence in a consumer protection area is totally ineffective. the report claims that the level of enforcement of consumer protection needs to be uniform throughout the eu in order for market surveillance activities to be effective. in my opinion, this is yet another example of the eu attempting to take control over the everyday life of my constituents.
in writing. − i believe it is positive that the committee’s report promotes the role that lifelong learning and education can play in protecting eu consumers. at a time when the single market is becoming ever more defined by the expansion of e-commerce, it is important that people living across the eu are aware of their rights and have the confidence to avail of the wide selection of products and services available to them. it is also right that children are protected from harm in the digital environment. i share the committee’s focus on ensuring that effective tools for resolving online cross-border dispute are in place, as access to these services is crucial to ensuring confidence in e-commerce. i also welcome calls to better inform consumers, including young people, on services within the financial sector. in my constituency, northern ireland, many households have fallen victim to the effects of payday loans, which are widely advertised on tv as the answer to solving all your money problems, yet they involve very high interest rates. better awareness of the potential consequences of these loans is pivotal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on european consumer policy, which focuses on consumer interests and in particular highlights problems in the food chain, energy transport, and digital and financial services sectors. this is in the interests of my constituents in wales, as these key measures empower and foster trust in consumers. consumer issues are, of course, a vital part of an mep’s work.
in writing. − i voted for this report as i believe ensuring food safety, health, energy, and financial and digital products should have top priority in the european consumer agenda. this agenda also comes during the final phase of the digital single market, which requires the protection of consumers online, legal certainty, consumer rights guarantees and efficient and reliable delivery services for the transport of goods and services. there is a need for a consumer agenda that reduces inequalities among consumers in europe and contributes to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. − protecting vulnerable consumers such as the elderly is particularly important for me, and i was happy to see this aspect of the consumer agenda highlighted as a significant issue in the report. the conditions facing consumers vary greatly across the union, and with the digitalisation of the economy, greater consumer protection is needed.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it highlights the growing gap between domestic and cross-border e-commerce and makes calls to protect the most vulnerable consumers such as the elderly and for greater consumer education and campaigns.
in writing. − the globalisation of markets and increasing digitalisation of the economy means that citizens across the european union are facing several new challenges in terms of consumer rights, which vary greatly in nature from member state to member state. this is why i supported this report calling for efforts to implement a greater level of protection across the whole consumer agenda, as well as improving transparency and harmonisation in this field. in light of the ongoing financial crisis, it has become even more important to secure a high level of consumer protection for citizens across all eu member states.
madam president, it is very important, when you have a legal dispute across different borders, that you have confidence that you have the same level of support from legal aid systems that you would enjoy in your own member state. at the same time, we have to recognise the differences in our traditions of law. you have the napoleonic codified law in many continental countries, and in the uk we have a system of common law, based on reason and precedents. for those reasons, we sometimes have to acknowledge that there are different interpretations of the law, and that what might work in one country may not work with our tradition in the united kingdom. one of the big problems we quite often have, in the disputes that arise concerning what british people feel about the eu, is to do with that different system of law. if we can understand the different legal definitions and legal histories, then maybe we might ease some of that misunderstanding.
madam president, perhaps the most celebrated jurist of the modern age in britain, lord denning, made an analogy with the relationship between eu and national law in the 1960s. he said it was spreading up the river mouths and estuaries of england. in 1990, towards the end of his extraordinary life, he revised the metaphor. he said: ‘it is no longer like an incoming tide, it is now a tidal wave that has come beyond the estuaries and is flooding over our fields and houses’. there is a fundamental incompatibility between the roman law system, based on writing down an idea from first principles and then applying it to specific cases and that extraordinary, anomalous, beautiful product of human ingenuity, the common law, as practised in england and ireland, which grows coral-like, case by case, applying not abstract principles but real results. john adams, the second president of the united states, called it the most excellent monument, the best guarantor of human freedoms, and every step towards harmonisation, which understandably and naturally harmonises towards the mean is a diminution of that system, which has been our defence of freedom through the centuries.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it centres on outlining measures to facilitate the operation of directives for citizens – i believe that this is simply another project designed to promote the eu by manipulating citizens. the report calls for the creation of a database of legal professionals with sufficient linguistic and comparative law skills to act in cross-border legal aid cases, with a view to integrating this database onto the e-justice porta. to me, this is simply another attempt by the eu to take over more national state competences with regards to civil law and to convince legal professionals to be more ‘pro-eu’ – therefore, i voted against the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important report on legal aid in cross-border civil and commercial disputes. the report encourages member states to establish more efficient and straightforward systems of co-operation between public bodies and non-governmental organisations so as to make legal aid and advice accessible to citizens. legal aid is a subject of much discussion in wales at the moment and the concern of my party is to ensure people are better informed and able to get good legal advice and support should a dispute of this nature arise.
in writing. − council directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 to improve access to justice in cross-border disputes by establishing minimum common rules relating to legal aid for such disputes is a very important piece of legislation for european citizens, as it aims to ensure that less well-off members of society also have access to justice in other member states, for example when exercising their right to free movement or benefiting from the internal market. i welcome this report’s proposals for improving the directive.
in writing. − access to justice is vital for my constituents of london, who are currently suffering from the government cuts in domestic legal aid, precluding them from help with cases relating to employment, child custody, education, etc. so i was happy to support a report which proposed making it easier for all eu citizens to access justice through legal aid across borders.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it calls for a possible eu accession to the hague convention on access to justice, which would allow reciprocal legal aid arrangements with countries outside of the eu.
madam president, one of the very important issues in international trade discussions at the moment is the role of intellectual property rights, but also i think here in the eu we have to look at the whole debate on intellectual property rights. we have some of these rights going back to the days of pure paper; we have issues such as whether we should extend copyright or not, and whether, as artists live longer, they have the right to continue to enjoy the fruits of their labour. there are others who say that, actually, sometimes intellectual property rights inhibit innovation, and that if you want to be able to create something and not have those rights, you should be allowed to do so. what we need to do is make sure that we create the right environment where all those systems can coexist peacefully. but at the same time we have to recognise that in international trade agreements there will be some of our trade partners who want tougher ipr; we saw that over the whole debate on acta, and we are going to see it in the eu-us agreement. as long as we can get some sort of mutual understanding and recognition, hopefully we can resolve this issue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on customs enforcement of intellectual property rights because pirated and counterfeit goods cost european businesses billions of pounds each year and sometimes even pose threats to health and safety. the report gives greater protection to intellectual property rights in the eu by allowing customs authorities to enforce them. in turn this will not only improve the efficiency of customs work but will also simplify the procedure of the destruction of these illegal goods.
in writing. − against i voted against this report as it tries to give customs official the power to judge trademarks and brand marks on everything from denim jeans to software. i believe that the uk should be allowed to enforce british legislation in such a way as to allow our customs to operate smoothly, without the need for requirements from the eu.
in writing. − my group approved of the general spirit of this report, but felt that it did not go far enough. i agreed with this view and so i did not vote in favour. at the heart of this issue is ensuring a fair deal for people both in wales and in other countries, particularly developing countries. the poorest countries must not be exploited or manipulated by commercial interests.
in writing. − i welcome this vote on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning customs enforcement of intellectual property rights and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1383/2003.
in writing. − piracy and counterfeiting is estimated to cost european business 250 billion euros each year. many of the small and medium-sized businesses that are affected by this issue are in my constituency of london. i was happy to vote for greater protection for their intellectual property rights, which will promote and protect innovation, which is vital to jobs and growth.
in writing. − i voted for this report as the final text has been redrafted to be more similar to the council’s position and makes for several key provisions which i find important.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on food intended for infants and young children and food intended for special medical purposes, because these foods are intended for specific categories of consumer which were inadequately protected by the previous legislation. this report recommends both the clearer and more specific labelling of these food products and the greater control of substances which may be added to them, with particular attention being given to the minimisation of pesticide residues.
in writing. − against i voted against this movement as i believe that existing uk health and safety regulations are more effective and useful than any that the eu attempts to impose on us.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on food for babies and young children and food for special medical purposes. there has been a problem with the definition of ‘dietetic’ foods and this has caused difficulties in implementation across the eu. it has been used as a legislative loophole. this proposal scraps the concept of ‘dietetic’ food, calls for stricter rules on pesticide use and bans advertising of ‘children’s’ milk which misleads parents into thinking it is better for the health of the child. many of my constituents in wales have been active in campaigning against those companies which promote powdered baby milk in developing countries. i hope that this report will assist that work.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that in this proposal, guarantees are built in to protect consumers from misleading information included in or expressed on the labelling, presentation and advertisement of food. dissemination of information by food business operators to healthcare professionals is allowed.
in writing. − this report ensures uniform protection levels for citizens across the eu. with the rise of e-commerce and such a large internal market, having no misleading of consumers by ambiguous labelling is vital for trust in the single market, and consequently for growth. therefore i was happy to support s&d amendments to this report.
in writing. − i welcome moves to protect consumers by putting into place new rules regarding the way in which baby milk and special foods for medical purposes are labelled. in the case of baby milk, it is clearly necessary to make sure that the way in which it is labelled is not misleading for parents who want to make informed decisions about their child’s health. it is for this reason that the labelling of ‘follow on’ formula has been tightened up, and furthermore i support calls from the parliament to evaluate the nutritional value of other products, such as ‘growing up milks’. i strongly believe that products that carry certain health claims need to prove their benefits under the health claims regulation like all other foods. this will ensure more protection for the consumer and avoid misleading claims on the packaging of products such as sport and diet foods, which are currently able to make claims that have not been backed up by adequate medical evidence.
in writing. − it is important that people are fully informed about the food they eat, especially as a lot of products make claims about suitability and nutritional and health benefits. i therefore supported this regulation on food for particular nutritional uses, which overhauls the existing legislation so that it now applies to a more limited group of foods. the report now covers only medical food, total diet replacement foods and food intended for children; other products, such as sports drinks and diet bars, will be regulated under the stricter nutrition and health claims regulation. i would have liked the regulation to extend the eu-wide marketing ban for infant formula to cover follow-on formula, as the exemption is used by manufacturers as a way to circumvent the strict rules on infant formula. unfortunately, a total ban was not included in the final report but we did agree to a ban on having pictures of infants on follow-on formula packaging. overall, i believe this legislation will help to protect consumers from misleading information on food packaging.
in writing. − abstain i abstained from voting on this report as, during what is a hugely difficult time for business, it is simply not necessary to impose extra requirements on employers.
in writing. − like other members i welcome advances in medicine and at the same time am conscious of the need to ensure that medical staff are protected. i voted in favour of the report which will protect personnel who work with mri scanners and who are in other jobs involving exposure to electromagnetic fields. some of the symptoms overexposure to electromagnetic fields can cause are nerve stimulation, dizziness, and tissue burns, so this is a serious issue. a clarification of the safeguards is most certainly in the interests of welsh workers and patients.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the aim of the commission proposal for a directive is to overhaul directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents.
in writing. − the failure of the 2004 directive demonstrates that proposals must be based on robust scientific evidence to ensure effective health protection, rather than creating a bureaucratic minefield that, even with the best of intentions, leads to unintended consequences. conservative meps are pleased that the commission's proposals have been amended to ensure that mri scanners can continue to be used across the eu. my conservative colleagues and i strongly believe that we should only legislate in areas where the eu can add real value. it is important that the right balance is reached between ensuring sufficient flexibility for member states, whilst in this case ensuring that workers are protected. even taking into account the progress that has been made in amending this proposal, conservatives still believe that a non-legislative approach could have achieved the same outcome at a fraction of the cost to industry.
in writing. − there is still a lot of uncertainty over the risks and effects of using technology which produces electromagnetic fields. the commission have guaranteed action if further medical evidence is found to show risks to health. i am happy to support this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report as this legislation has been over a decade in the pipeline and has made considerable progress. i am satisfied with the outcome.
in writing. − there is still some uncertainty over the health risks associated with technology that produces electromagnetic fields (emfs), such as mobile phones, mri scanners and personal computers. in 2004 legislation was adopted setting maximum exposure limits to emfs for workers but this raised some concerns about how it would impact on health workers ability to operate mri scanners. as a result, the implementation of the 2004 legislation was postponed to allow for further consultation, and new legislation was drafted, which we voted on today. i fully support limiting workers’ exposure to emfs. we already know that exposure has short-term effects on the human body, but research on possible long-term effects is inconclusive. it is therefore important that we exercise caution and take steps to limit potential harm until we know more. however, i am also aware of the hugely important role of mri technology in the delivery of healthcare, and therefore support the exception for workers using this for healthcare and research purposes. i am pleased that the report also includes a provision that the commission will take further action if evidence proving long-term health risks associated with emfs comes to light.
in writing. − eighteen months ago i visited the ground-breaking st. thomas’s hospital in my london constituency. there i met reza razavi, a professor of paediatric cardiovascular science. prof. razavi is a cardiac mri pioneer who performed the world’s first cardiac catheterisation using interventional mri. interventional mri allows for more accurate imaging when performing checks for heart conditions. it reduces radiation exposure to patients and clinical staff and is favoured when assessing the hearts of children and babies who are more susceptible to radiation produced by x-rays. i am pleased, therefore, that the proposals voted on by parliament today include amendments put forward by my group which will allow an exemption for mris. these scanners can continue to be used to perform life-saving procedures like those carried out by prof. rezavi. nevertheless, in the end, i decided to abstain on this report. while i believe that we need to adjust the rules to prevent a ban on mris, in principle i think that the eu should only legislate in areas where it can add real value. the eu needs to ensure sufficient flexibility for member states when it comes to rules concerning workers’ rights, especially legislation in the field of health and safety.
in writing. − against. i oppose the proposal as i firmly believe that fishing politics as a whole should be returned to national state competences. fishery is hugely important to wales and welsh fishermen should not be harmed any more by unnecessary eu regulations concerning methods for calculating fishing capacity, adjusting maximum capacity levels or indeed any other rules. i believe that cfp should be revoked as a whole.
in writing. − i am delighted that my report has been approved and i wish to record my sincere thanks to the fisheries secretariat, to the commission, to fisheries administrations in various member states and to stakeholders, specifically individual fishermen, as well as their representative bodies for assisting in the delivery of what i hope is an improved plan. this is not a perfect solution to the issues faced in these fisheries, but i hope it does represent a significant step in the right direction. it is disappointing for me as well as those that helped draft my report and our professional fishermen that, because of the separate legal challenges brought by the parliament and the commission against the council in respect of who has competency for certain aspects of policy as part of the lisbon alignment process, it seems the amended plan is unlikely to progress to implementation in the near future. as a result fishermen will continue to suffer but, as stecf pointed out, the cod stock will continue to suffer, thus further highlighting yet again that, despite all of the talk about promotion of sustainable fisheries in this place, especially in the past few weeks in relation to the cfp, it is politics that take precedence over actual pragmatic and sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which includes an amendment tabled by my group in parliament which deletes a reference to 2009 – which gives back the flexibility originally intended to the system. this will prevent fishing being concentrated in particular areas resulting in more discards and more waste. although a relatively small industry, fishing is important to wales, and it is important to my constituents that cod is fished sustainably and conscientiously.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. regulation 1342/2008 establishing the long term cod plan was published on 18 december that year. the plan represented what was a dramatic step in efforts to rebuild cod stocks in northern waters of the eu. after 3 years of implementation it was reviewed by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf), which published their evaluation of multi-annual plans for cod in the irish sea, the kattegat, the north sea and the west of scotland following their july 2011 plenary meeting in copenhagen. while accepting that after only 3 years of the plan’s implementation it was premature to draw conclusions on the plan’s medium term impact, the stecf did conclude:“...that the (current) plan is not delivering reduced f (fishing mortality) and additionally in many areas does not have stakeholders’ support. a plan which stakeholders support is more likely to succeed because the stakeholders’ actions are needed to contribute to its success. support of the plan also should also, in theory, lead to their acceptance of responsibility to fulfil their obligations”.
in writing. − i support this report because of its proposals to implement a discard ban, reduce cod catches and retain sustainable catches of target species. if we are to develop sustainable fishing and preserve fish stocks in our waters for the future, we must take these tough decisions on fishing now. my constituency of london has fish trade as a vital part of the economy and it would be greatly affected if unsustainable fishing depleted stocks.
in writing. − i voted for, as this report calls for a proposal to amend the existing legislation on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks as the current plan does not achieve its objectives of reducing fishing mortality.
madam president, the rise in organised crime across the eu affects us all. in my constituency of northern ireland, we have an escalating problem with the scourge of fuel laundering. over the last three weeks, her majesty’s revenue and customs officials have shut down eight laundering operations with a total production capacity of over 53 million litres of diesel a year, creating a yearly loss in tax and duty estimated at gbp 34 million. the money gained by criminals involved in laundering is believed to fund gangs involved in human trafficking, drug dealing and, in some instances, terrorism. they bring nothing but pain and suffering to the community at large. what we need to tackle this crime is a coordinated approach across borders. but we also need full political and public support for those tasked with tackling such crime. in my constituency, it is regrettable that sinn féin and the sdlp have hampered the fight against organised crime by blocking the national crime agency from operating in northern ireland. in so doing, they put their outdated dogma ahead of the fight against crime – be it fuel smuggling or human trafficking.
madam president, in march of this year europol – sadly and alarmingly – described my london constituency as being the organised crime capital of europe. so undoubtedly cross-border organised crime is a major threat and problem, both to my constituents and to the wider eu, and definitely needs a coordinated response. i welcome the temporary special committee on organised crime’s monitoring of the situation via this mid-term report. however, i disagree with some of its recommendations, and therefore i abstained overall. despite this, i would like to support specifically the key amendments involving the battle against human trafficking, drug smuggling, cybercrime, tax evasion and the fight against terrorism. furthermore, i am also a supporter of the directives, such as the fourth money laundering directive and the eu passenger name record directive. but, sadly, despite these worthy elements of the report, aspects such as the inclusion of a harmonised criminal law system, a more complete banking union and the right to asylum prevent me and my delegation from voting in favour of this report overall.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on ‘organised crime, corruption, and money laundering: recommendations on action and initiatives to be taken’, because it recommends a coherent eu-wide framework which would combat these practices by targeting their proceeds, improving judicial and police cooperation between member states and rendering politics, banking and business more transparent and accountable. these illegal activities cost the eu millions of jobs and billions in taxes every year, and so pose a very real threat to our society which must be addressed.
in writing. − i am firmly against organised crime, however, as the socta report from europol shows, the reason for its development is the so-called freedom of movement of people within the eu; therefore it is essential that we reintroduce stricter border controls and reinforce policing in every member state. the fight against organised crime is best undertaken by preventing criminals and criminal networks spreading and therefore the rules surrounding the expulsion of criminals from the uk should not be prevented by the eu’s so-called freedom law.
in writing. − i abstained on this report as it fails to provide a convincing response to organised crime, corruption, and money laundering. we cannot adopt a one-size-fits-all approach as if each case is the same. there is need for evidence-based law enforcement and a prioritisation of white-collar and economic crimes as those that can inflict the most social harm. the eu has an important role in fighting and preventing crime, internationally and comprehensive legislation is needed to better protect the citizens of europe including, of course, my constituents in wales.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which points out that poverty acts as an enabler for organised crime, as poverty is exploited by criminal organisations.
in writing. − corruption, money laundering and organised crime represent a threat for european democracy for citizens and for legal markets. in a period of economic and social crisis, all resources deviated from legal activity must be recovered and directed to the real economy supporting legal, decent and sustainable work. whilst there were issues with this report that i reflected in my voting record, as a whole i was happy to support this report, which urges action to tackle serious crime in the area of organised crime, tax evasion and human trafficking, all of which significantly affect my constituency of london.
in writing. − i voted for this report as after the inclusion of some s&d amendments it became a more balanced all-inclusive report and i was satisfied with its content.
in writing. − this mid-term report by the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering has my full support. creating a roadmap to effectively combat crime in the eu and worldwide is of utmost importance. organised crime is widespread and in order to tackle the various types of crime, e.g. cyber-crime, money laundering, illegal gambling, etc., we need eu-wide action. the cost of corruption in the eu stands at around eur 120 billion per year and i believe that this is money that could be better used towards creating economic growth and tackling unemployment.
madam president, this report on social housing, the original draft which went to the committee, was very positive and i worked very closely with the rapporteur in developing its key themes. i was particularly keen to highlight the importance of energy efficiency improvements to social and affordable housing for people on low incomes. the costs associated with heating homes for low-income families take up a very high proportion of their disposable income. however, a number of elements crept into this report through compromise and through individual amendments which i could not support. a number of these elements breach the subsidiarity principle and, in my view, left us with a text that went well beyond the remit that had initially been given to the employment committee. as a result of this, the british and german delegations within the alde group decided that they could not support the report, but they did not want to vote against it because of its obvious, very positive elements. that explains why some of us abstained on this report.
madam president, i welcome the focus that this report brings to the issue of social housing. i particularly welcome the focus on the benefit of social housing to the most vulnerable in our society: the elderly, the victims of domestic violence and, in my own constituency, the social housing particularly geared for those who suffer from dementia. the report also rightly highlights the potential of renewed investment in social housing, in job creation and in boosting the construction industry, which has been hugely impacted upon by the economic crisis. i also welcome the emphasis on energy efficiency. over 300 000 households in northern ireland live in fuel poverty. despite all of these positive elements, i find myself unable to support the report, because it breaches the principle of subsidiarity. housing policy is, and should remain, the prerogative of the member state, where need is best identified, rather than this blanket approach of the eu.
madam president, 1.3 million families – that is one in four families in england – are on lower incomes. they have to spend a third of their net income on housing, largely owing to the shortage of private rental sector housing, which was exacerbated in the 1980s by the conservative party’s failure to build social housing programmes and the labour party of the 1990s failing to tackle that issue. i am glad that this is a national competence, and it should stay a national competence. however, the eu has a detrimental impact. we currently have a government in the united kingdom saying that it does not know how many people who will be coming from romania and bulgaria, or indeed from across the european union. how are our local authorities supposed to make provision when current provision does not meet demands? this is why we have problems of people in the private sector not being able to afford housing on a third of their income – some gbp 500 in coventry. that is not affordable, and we cannot provide this any longer.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report because the problem of homelessness is no doubt worsened by the sheer volume of migrants that come to the uk purely to receive benefits. uk law takes very good care of our country’s citizens, and other countries’ laws should do the same thing. we simply do not need an eu policy on social housing imposed on the uk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. a plan to improve the social housing sector can also help the eu over the economic, social, and environmental crisis, through house building and retrofitting with energy saving measures. with so many of my constituents in wales unable to find affordable housing, it is vital that we work at all levels to make it easier to do so. this report asks that the eu and member states establish a european framework for social housing to better coordinate national housing policies.
in writing. − i voted for this report which ‘notes that, as a result of the current economic and social crisis, on its own the market is increasingly incapable of meeting the need for affordable homes, in particular in densely populated urban areas, and that rising housing and energy costs are aggravating the risks of disease, poverty and social exclusion; notes the increase in several member states in the number of evictions and properties seized by banks; urges that measures be taken in response to these challenges; is concerned about both the direct and the indirect impact of some austerity measures in the context of the current social and economic crisis – such as cuts in housing benefit and social services, the taxation of social housing providers, the cancellation of new housing projects and the selling off of parts of national social housing stocks – which could exacerbate a vicious circle of long-term social exclusion and segregation’.
in writing. − my colleagues and i voted against this report. while we agree that housing is an important social issue in europe, we believe that the provision of social housing falls entirely within the competence of the member states. therefore we can not support any calls for initiatives at eu level that, with the best of intentions, could override member states' independence on the prioritisation of their investment decisions or on a member state's ability to fund or organise the provision of housing based on their own social needs. it is important that we strike a good balance between eu added value and member states' competences, and i am very pleased that my amendment on paragraph 23, which addresses the role of the eu, has been adopted. unfortunately, a number of paragraphs were adopted that my group believes set a dangerous precedent by calling for a one-size-fits-all approach in the area of employment and social affairs.
in writing. − i was happy to support a report which recognised the need and the right if people to have adequate living conditions. i join the call for eu governments to invest more in social housing to support the most vulnerable in society. whilst the government is failing to provide enough social housing in my constituency of london i am clear that investment in social housing in a time of austerity is a vital priority in order to properly house thousands of britons living in appalling conditions, and is a crucial productive investment with a wider positive impact upon society and the economy.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it highlights the stress being put on social housing availability by the economic and social crisis and calls on the ec to bring forward a european social housing action framework.
in writing. − with soaring property prices, expensive energy bills and continuing pressure on social spending, many of my london constituents are painfully aware of the ongoing struggle to find affordable, decent housing in britain. i therefore commend this report for exploring the undoubted value of the social housing sector in ameliorating the eu's dire economic and social situation. however, while this report does acknowledge my key belief that the provision of social housing is the competence of member states, it also sets out a number of controversial and worrying initiatives for member states to carry out in conjunction with the european commission, with a view to addressing the growing need for social housing throughout the eu. i therefore cannot vote in favour of this report. i find the recommendations for the integration of the council of europe social charter into eu primary law, the establishment of a european social housing action framework and the creation of a social investment target deeply concerning, and i believe that these initiatives are quite simply a step too far. finally, the unnecessary criticism of the austerity measures of member states cements my decision to vote against this report.
in writing. − investment in the social housing sector is crucial if we are to ensure decent housing for those people who are most badly affected by the ongoing economic crisis. due to the rise in living costs, a fall in wages and rising unemployment across the eu, many people face extra costs, and some are being evicted from their homes as result. more investment in social housing will also have the advantage of boosting construction and renovation sectors and will as a result boost the green workforce. i echo calls for a european social housing action framework to be set up to make sure there is consistency between the different eu instruments used for the purpose of social housing. social housing is a vital part of the 2020 strategy objectives and action needs to be taken in this area to reduce poverty and to meet targets which have been set. i believe that adequate eu funding in this area is important and will help complement spending at national and local level.
madam president, in today’s economic climate it is proving extremely difficult for young men and women alike to enter the labour market. with youth unemployment at its highest rate throughout the eu, it is vital that policies are put in place across member states to counteract these ever-increasing statistics. although youth unemployment in my own constituency is at an historic high, i am pleased to say that out of a small population of 1.8 million, there are an estimated 374 000 women economically active in northern ireland today; an increase of 34% from 1995. however, 2012 statistics show that women remain the largest underrepresented group when it comes to enterprise in northern ireland and represent a huge pool of untapped potential. initiatives such as women into business ni aim to tap into this potential and increase the number of women in northern ireland who contribute positively to the economy and society as a whole.
in writing. − against. while i firmly believe that women have a crucial role to play in society, i do not feel that the eu needs to impose any standards in this area. the uk has a long tradition of supporting gender balance and i believe that it is wholly inappropriate that this issue should be used to impose eu propaganda. furthermore, the mobility of women should not be used as a reason to make migration rules any less strict.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i recently hosted a seminar at which chwarae teg launched their most recent research on women in employment in wales. this research shows that although the situation for women in employment has improved, the pay gap between men and women remains. this report calls on member states to address gender segregation in jobs by addressing the conditions that make certain sectors less attractive for women or men. one of the key findings in chwarae teg’s research is that women and men are still stereotyped, there continue to be ‘men’s jobs’ and ‘women’s jobs’. this report will help address that issue.
in writing. − i voted for this report which ‘stresses the need to introduce youth guarantees in the member states in order to increase labour market access for young people, including female graduates, and to facilitate their transition from studying to the labour market; underlines that early career mobility patterns play a crucial role in shaping subsequent employment changes; recalls its two resolutions of 24 may 2012 on the youth opportunities initiative and of 16 january 2013 on a youth guarantee; calls, therefore, on the commission and the member states to implement swiftly the youth employment package, particularly with regard to ‘your first eures job’ and the youth guarantee, with a view to fostering early educational and occupational mobility of young women’.
in writing. − the labour market must be made more open and accessible to everyone. women suffer disproportionately in this regard, so i was happy to support a report proposing lifelong learning and educational mobility, which would foster occupational mobility while facilities like better child care and services would facilitate women’s integration into the labour market.
in writing. − i abstained on part 2 of paragraph 23 of this otherwise fine report, as, while i agree that everything must be done to encourage diversity in the management of companies, i am not convinced that quotas imposed at eu level will achieve this in a legitimate way. quite the reverse: i fear that the directive called for would undermine efforts towards equality and would undermine the legitimacy of the eu in the eyes of our citizens into the bargain.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it covers important topics such as promotion of educational programmes such as erasmus, comenius, etc., as well as promoting women’s mobility in the eu.
in writing. − in support of increasing the employment rate amongst member states, i voted in favour of the educational and occupational mobility of women report. as europe seeks to open up the labour market to make it more accessible to all, this report aims to facilitate such mobility between both men and women. i believe it is essential that europe continues to act and encourage other member states to increase their professional and educational mobility. educational programmes such as erasmus, which thousands of students benefit from every year, should be given financial support. furthermore, women’s issues will also be highlighted in improving facilities such as childcare aiding a better work/life balance and will make possible women’s integration into the labour market. i feel that this will promote the freedom of choice for women in seeking a job in the eu, allowing women to move as much as their male counterparts.
madam president, one word: ‘consistency’. i will repeat it again so that the interpreters get it to you in time: ‘consistency’. i have been here four years, and not once have i been told that you have to have the question in before the start of the process. this is the first time this has happened. if this is the case, then you should announce it before the votes even begin. it was my understanding that you had to have your request for a question in before the subject or report was brought up. it is a complete inconsistency, and you are denying me my full mandate by not allowing me my explanation of vote on this report, so i ask you once again to give me my explanation of vote because you are denying me my mandate.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as my party are against the tolling of roads in the first instance. we do not believe that taxpayers should be asked to pay to use roads that they are already paying for through road tax and fuel duty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the higgins report on an electronic toll service and vignette system on light private vehicles. it further integrates the ‘polluter pays’ principle, recognises that adequate enforcement is essential rather than calling for more legislation, and deals with interoperability between national and regional toll systems and personal data protection. the european electronic toll service (eets) has long been promoted at eu level, and i believe it will facilitate, simplify, and improve cross-border charging for my welsh constituents.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which calls on the member states and toll-road operators to work in close cooperation with neighbouring countries and to offer all the necessary support for the setting-up of charging systems and payment and collection facilities and the provision of information to users about prices, terms and conditions of use, and so on.
in writing. − this report calls on the commission to be more proactive in the development of interoperable and non-discriminatory toll systems in member states and simply recommends that the eu should favour distance-based tolling systems as they are fairer. this report will not affect the uk or increase costs on motorists with the uk introducing tolling, which remains the government’s decision, so i am happy to support it.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it recommends that the eu should in the future favour distance-based tolling systems on the grounds that they are fairer and less discriminatory.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we did manage to get in something positive about gender identity and the qualifications directive. in terms of the common european asylum system, we are not there yet. certainly with this latest round of recasts we have seen the limits of the recast system. many of us feel we fought for every bit of progress that we have managed to get in this package, against a number of member states that certainly did not want to move. we can see that we do not yet have a common system if you look at what is happening with one and a half million refugees from syria, a relatively small number of them in the european union. yet when you see the examination of their claims, some countries appear to be doing the job properly, others are not and virtually all claims are being rejected. one of the things that this parliament, and certainly my group, wanted was the genuine examination of every claim. we wanted to see high standards of human rights, we wanted to see a higher standard of consistency across member states, not the lottery that ms guillaume has referred to, and we wanted to see the respect of the dignity of individuals, not treating people as criminals and automatically locking them up in closed centres simply because they dared to claim asylum. so what progress do we have against those benchmarks? my colleagues will speak of eurodac and procedures. it is true that on dublin we have made quite a bit of progress compared to the current dublin ii regulation. a number of the concerns raised in the latest report from a jesuit refugee service will be addressed, and the recent court case will be really important. we do not want children left at airports because they have not been picked up by people from the social services of the country to which they are being returned again. on reception, my judgment would be that we have made marginal progress and that a number of safeguards in terms of levels of support, and indeed safeguards in terms related to detention, really do not take us very far forward. i am sorry to say that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i do not support this common asylum system, not because i do not believe in european cooperation or because i do not think immigration can indeed have positive effects on society, but because, by pursuing this, we are not getting to the root of the problem. the challenges for the member states are often unique, varied and require very different approaches to resolve. i have always believed that we must strive to deliver an asylum system which reflects the principles set out long ago in the geneva convention. in that pursuit, we should be delivering a system which is fair, compassionate and principled, but also one which is practical, sustainable and adaptable. the area of asylum should be based on practical assistance and not on ideology. member states should certainly not be condemned for trying to address abuse of the asylum system and thereby maintain the support of citizens, allowing the eu to continue to give refuge to those most in need. of course this package does deliver improvements in addressing these issues, and i particularly highlight eurodac and the dublin system in this respect. these are measures which attempt to protect the rights of asylum seekers but also protect against abuses of the system. the real proof will be in the system’s implementation. we must be careful not to create a system which buckles under the weight of its own prescription. overprescription, detailed administrative rules, quotas and compulsory solidarity are not going to fix the problems. instead we should be enforcing fundamental rights standards, good cooperation, good practice and an understanding of each member state’s needs. let us offer our help, support and resources and ensure that it is not acceptable to treat these people most in need of compassion with anything less than human dignity. some member states have our greatest understanding regarding the burden of their geography, but we must be careful that we are not creating a new asylum system which accommodates failures. instead, we must provide practical support to the countries concerned to help build up their capacity to deal with claims through the practical work of the european asylum support office, frontex and funding mechanisms. this is precisely the kind of solidarity we need, aimed at helping member states to comply with all their obligations under international law.
mr president, i represented asylum seekers before i was elected to this house. we were talking about the common asylum system back then, so when we hear today concerns about, for example, the marginal progress made on the reception conditions directive; difficulties in the eurodac file, which i was shadowing; law enforcement access; and so on, then of course there are real concerns about where we can make progress. but let us put one thing into perspective, which is that the council has for many years talked about burden sharing. they have talked about a common asylum system for well over fifteen years, commissioner, not just fifteen years. but the gap between that rhetoric and actually creating that system has been enormous. therefore, the vote tomorrow – which i am glad is now going to get more widespread political support in this house – is very important. none of this precludes the fact that in each of these files – with all the achievements that you have listed – there are some real concerns. that means ultimately that we need a strong vote in this house, because a lot of this will be in the transposition and in the implementation. this is not some cliché about transposition and implementation, what this means is that asylum numbers are falling, and there is austerity in the european union. so it will come down to that same set of member states – not the presidency, by the way, which has been hugely effective – but member states, which will have to walk the walk when it comes to transposing some of the good things from each of these directives which the rapporteurs have effectively made happen. we should vote in support of this. make it happen and ensure that asylum seekers are treated fairly after we vote.
mr president, i also welcome the fact that after 14 years we have reached this important step towards the establishment of a european asylum system. i, together with others in this house, have lived every one of those years on this bumpy journey. i also agree with those who say that this is not a perfect package, nor is it yet a truly common system. it will depend on proper implementation, backed up if and when appropriate by the commission and court enforcement powers. we are not yet there in having both fairness and efficiency across the eu and asylum management, but i would say to my british conservative colleague, mr kirkhope, that we need both common eu laws and practical cooperation. i think it is helpful that the conservative-led government in the uk is at least opting into the dublin and eurodac regulations, even if it has not been persuadable on the other measures. on eurodac, alde was reluctant in the extreme about police access, which was the main point of contention. but i, as the shadow, was aware of the realities about needing to get a package deal, so i concentrated strongly on the safeguards needed for individual rights – safeguards which were not, i have to say, present in the parliament rapporteur’s original report. i am particularly pleased that we managed to persuade the council not to insist on a 10-year period of access, for both asylum and law enforcement purposes, to the data of those who had received international protection. we managed to persuade the council to keep to three years; that is already a bit long, but at least it then aligns with the period stipulated in the qualifications directive for the granting of an initial residence permit. i know the council wants this time period monitored, but i believe that was a major triumph for parliament to try and restrict access by police to data of those who have been granted international protection.
mr president, asylum has got far less to do with shielding people from persecution, and much more to do with serving as a pretext for facilitating immigration. the political class knows that there is opposition to mass immigration, so they present asylum as a system over which they have no control. if applicants are not detained or allowed to seek work, they will also need housing. jobs and houses are in short supply, so they will be employed or housed at the expense of the home populations. perhaps complicit meps should open their homes to these applicants and fund them from their salaries, rather than letting the poor and dispossessed bear the burden. of course if asylum is refused, the applicant will be given a piece of paper asking them to leave, but there will be no coercion. they can also use the legal system to frustrate removal. an iranian asylum seeker, mr rostami, came to britain in 2001 and was refused asylum in 2002. he is still in britain after several appeals, a prison sentence and a deportation order.
mr president, last year we saw the schengen system buckle under the strain of mass migration, and some member states sought to introduce unilateral controls. the revision of the rules is an attempt to keep the lid on a boiling pot, but it is too little and too late. it only allows some controls in very exceptional circumstances for a limited period of time. it is too little, too late. an open-borders policy could only work between countries with very similar and stable economic and cultural natures. the eu’s open-borders policy is a disaster for ordinary people, and has created enormous social problems. this has all been done in pursuit of a political ideology not shared by the people of europe. that ideology is that the continent of europe is a single country, a united states of europe, which obviously it is not. the eu is out of touch with reality and in a contest between reality and ideology, reality always wins in the end. (the speaker agreed to reply to two blue-card questions from robert goebbels and krisztina morvai under rule 149(8))
blue-card answers. – mr goebbels, you asked about border controls. yes, britain is not in the schengen system, but we still suffer from the effects of it because it is very much easier for people to get to calais and make that final hop over to britain. you are quite right: even though we are supposed to have border controls, immigration policy is a disaster in my country. this is not just because of the european union, it is because of the complete inability and lack of will on the part of british governments to actually put in proper immigration controls and carry them out. so i agree with you that this is a disaster in my country that is not entirely of the making of the eu. in answer to ms morvai’s question regarding the free movement of people: no, we do not believe in the free movement of peoples in my party. we believe in controlled immigration and controlled border policy. we do not want to stop immigrants; we do not want to stop people coming. but we want this to be controlled by our government in the interests of the british people, and not in the interests of a political ideology which they do not share. if you are going to control people, it is a lot easier to do that than capital, which is often numbers on a computer, so i understand the problems there. we want to see policies in a whole range of areas that are in the interests of the british people, and then ultimately in the interests of everybody else.
mr president, the ability to control one’s own borders is fundamental to national sovereignty, and whilst the uk is not part of the schengen area, i do still support the council’s view that ultimate decision-making on border control should lie with national governments. however, all of our authorities must be able to identify those who pose a risk to our citizens and there have been some shocking cases of individuals who have been known to pose a risk in one member state then being able to commit crimes because they relocated to another country where they were less well known. the freedom of movement of people is a very valued freedom, but we also need to protect citizens, so it must be coupled with full and accurate exchange of information. tackling risks posed by potentially dangerous individuals is critically important and stricter border controls can help to achieve this.
mr president, coming from a member state which is not in schengen, and having a perspective which values the free movement within the schengen area, if we cast our minds back to the opportunism which caused this situation, we can really appreciate the progress which has been made by the two rapporteurs, ms weber and mr coelho. we understand the objections in respect of parliament’s role, the lack of codecision and the difficulties, but we have to make an assessment about what the rapporteurs have achieved and the jump that we have made from those opportunistic situations to where we are now. i could make an assessment as a citizen who does not enjoy that free movement from schengen, from the united kingdom: this is something that created progress, democratic accountability and transparency. it is not a perfect situation but it is real progress and that is why my group values the agreement.
rapporteur. − mr president, i agree with my co-rapporteur, mr lehne, that these reports and this new legislation promote greater transparency and reduce the burden for sme issuers at a time of economic recession. we know that reporting requirements are essential for transparency and for investor confidence. we have been able to strike a very good balance here between reducing the administrative burden and more transparency for investors and civil society. the european parliament has always stressed the need for country-by-country reporting for the extractive industries. in these tough negotiations with the council and the commission, spanning three presidencies in all, we stressed that reporting had to be meaningful and significant and had to deliver genuine transparency. therefore we insisted on some very tough rules. why? because communities in resource-rich countries have over decades seen billions of their wealth generated from oil, gas, minerals or logging robbed and squandered by corrupt governments. they have an abundance of resources but that does not lead to wealth and prosperity. niger has lost between eur 14.5 billion and 21 billion of potential revenue since 1960 because of unfair extractive industry deals. in 2008 alone, african oil, gas and mineral exports were worth nine times the value of international aid: eur 260 billion versus eur 33 billion. only tough transparency rules and reporting will allow communities to follow the link between individual payments and projects. the european parliament’s team therefore rejected the council’s initial weak, uk government-rio tinto inspired proposal. so companies now will have to report payments at country level and project level. what does that mean? that we require companies to publish the payments they make to governments for each lease or licence that they obtain to access resources. this creates a link between a project, a mine or an oilfield and the payment. all levels of government are defined within the rules, so payments to federal, national, regional or local governments will have to be reported. we rejected the council’s demand that there should be exemptions from reporting rules in those countries which make it a criminal offence to disclose payments to their governments, a demand which would have rendered the entire legislation meaningless and ineffective, as corrupt countries would have used new secrecy rules to prevent disclosure. so the new rules will enable us, to give a practical example, to deal with the kind of corruption we saw in may 2012 involving shell and eni in nigeria. in may 2012 documents came to light detailing how nigerian subsidiaries of shell and eni agreed to pay over one billion dollars to the nigerian government to acquire an oil block. on the same day, the nigerian government paid the exact same amount of money to malibu oil and gas, owned by convicted money launderer and former oil minister, dan etete, who had given himself the oil block in the first place. shell and eni deny paying any money to malibu oil and gas, and maintain that they only had dealings with the nigerian government. but if shell and eni had been forced to disclose their payments to the nigerian government at project level, both companies would have been required to disclose the usd one billion payment at that time and attribute it to the oil block in question. that is the difference that this legislation will now make. citizens can use this data to identify payments, follow the passage into government and challenge their governments as to where the money went and what it was used for. this is a wake-up call for legislators and businesses. this vote is history in the making. the new law will be a major new weapon in the fight against corruption, ensuring that citizens of resource-rich countries can hold their governments to account for the exploitation of natural resources.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the texts you are debating today, and which have just been mentioned by president lehne and arlene mccarthy, i think the european union is taking an important step forward. in october 2011, i presented to you, on behalf of the commission, a package of measures to support entrepreneurship, but also to empower european companies in social, environmental, economic and financial terms. that is how we will build more sustainable growth together. in this context, we have proposed to modernise the accounting directive and to make substantial changes to the transparency directive in several respects. at this point i would like to thank very sincerely both your rapporteurs, mr lehne and mrs arlene mccarthy, and also all the other coordinators and fictitious rapporteurs who, through this collective work of parliament - i say this because it is the truth - have made it possible to improve the commission's original texts considerably. with the revision of the accounting standards directives, you will, as president lehne said earlier, considerably lighten the burden on small and mediumsized enterprises. for each member state, small enterprises with fewer than 50 employees will have to be distinguished on the basis of ambitious criteria. as regards the transparency directive, it is proposed that you remove the requirement for issuers of securities to publish quarterly reports. this is a significant administrative simplification which will facilitate access to capital and does not distort the protection afforded to investors. it is also, ladies and gentlemen, a measure which i hope will reorient listed companies towards a longer-term vision. i would also like to emphasize the fundamental contribution of parliament to improving access to financial information on capital markets at european level. you have proposed to create an electronic access point to financial information for investors which is centralised at european level, and to ensure that all annual financial reports are drawn up in a harmonised electronic format to facilitate the transmission and comparison of financial information for investors and competent authorities. there are two major advances: special attention to small and mediumsized enterprises, which make up the bulk of the european economic fabric, and simplification with concrete evidence. finally, i would like to say a few words about reporting and transparency. we hope that the provisions in these texts will help to make governments and companies that exploit natural resources, including primary forests, more accountable for the way in which they are exploited. by requiring, country by country, and also project by project, information to which local communities are entitled about the sums that multinational companies pay to exploit natural resources in the territory of these countries, we are giving these communities the tools to question their authorities about what is being done with these revenues. i think this is a very important and bold step forward and it is essential to have this multilateral approach because without it third countries could gain a competitive advantage at the expense of our industry. that is why i am interested in the fact that the united states of america has similar legislation and that two years ago the g8 members committed themselves to greater transparency. i have noted that the british presidency of the g8 is taking steps to improve global standards in this area. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we must go further than this first step which we are taking and which you will take tomorrow. greater transparency is needed, in particular with regard to profits made, taxes paid and subsidies received, as an important element of corporate social responsibility towards their partners, employees and society as a whole. these transparency measures are also a step towards restoring citizens' confidence. that is why i am also very pleased, arlene mccarthy, that the european parliament's initiative has been accepted in the framework of the crd iv capital requirements directive on banking institutions. however, as i have mentioned on several occasions, crd iv is not the most appropriate instrument to introduce such transparency measures, especially since it is only targeted at a number of players in the financial sector. i therefore fully support the extension of these transparency requirements, which we have put in crd iv for banks, and of targeted publication by jurisdiction to all other sectors of the economy. in addition, i note the conclusions of the european council of 22 may, as you have noted, on the need to take effective measures to ensure public confidence in the fairness and efficiency of tax systems and to combat tax evasion, in particular by ensuring that there is country-by-country reporting by large companies and groups, so that we know what these large european companies pay in taxes, to whom, how much and where. i fully support these conclusions and, as i have already said, i have no particular preference as to the instrument by which we are going to introduce these important measures. the essential thing is that we act effectively, as quickly as possible and with the greatest possible legal certainty, without indefinitely postponing the final adoption of texts which have already been the subject of political agreement. it seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that it is possible and necessary to introduce rules for the publication of information on a country-by-country basis, as we have done for banks in crd iv. i am thinking, for example, of the commission proposal, which is now on your table, on improving the transparency of certain large companies in non-financial matters, adopted last april. and if parliament deems it appropriate to make an amendment to my proposal to that effect, then the commission will support it. the advantage of this approach is that we would not be returning to the negotiations on the accounting directive and the transparency directive, on which we have already reached agreement after lengthy discussions. in this spirit, i would like to invite parliament to work closely with the council and i will contribute to this dialogue so that we can reach agreement as soon as possible, if possible before the end of the year or at the latest before the end of this parliamentary term, on the basis of the proposal i made last april on corporate social and environmental responsibility. i think it is a very important step to impose these transparency rules on all large companies, as we did in crd iv for banks and as you are doing here for extractive companies and those operating in the logging sector. i am very grateful to you for the very constructive and very important support which parliament, at your instigation, has given to these two texts and also to the next steps towards transparency.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, as we have just heard, oil, gas and mineral exports from africa are worth nearly usd 400 billion a year, nine times as much as the continent receives in development aid, yet extreme poverty remains endemic. the transparency and accounting legislation is a historic step forward because, for the first time, international companies in the extractive and logging industries will have to publish what they pay to government authorities for every single project over eur 100 000, without loopholes or exemptions. public information means public empowerment. if you know just how much income your government has received, then you can question where it has been spent. but this legislation is just a first step. reporting needs to be extended to all sectors, and i welcome what i take to be an assurance from the commissioner that this will be part of the review that is forthcoming, or indeed part of the non-financial reporting framework.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, of course a number of speakers have spoken about the country-by-country reporting element of these two directives. however, having worked on this in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and in another committee at the time, it is quite clear that a number of other issues were involved. one of the things that we tried to do in the ecr was to highlight the role that accounting standards play in the whole debate, to make sure that there is more transparency when it comes to accounting standards, and to highlight some of the concerns around ifrs accounting standards. when they look at the balance sheets of banks and financial institutions, investors can be quite unclear about what is actually on those statements. when they are handling financial instruments, for example, they can book the profits up-front without making sufficient provision for losses. if we can get that right, then perhaps investors will have more confidence in the financial statements not just of financial organisations, but others too. hopefully that is something we can work on, on a cross-party basis, in this parliament.
mr president, as a member of the committee on development, i would like to start by congratulating my colleague, arlene mccarthy, for the brilliant work that she has done on ensuring that there is more transparency in the activities of eu extractive and logging companies in developing countries. why? because corruption is the single most important reason why the poorest people in the world cannot be lifted out of their poverty. corruption and impunity, and at all levels. this also addresses the issues within the eu because this legislation is a start. it will force eu companies who extract in developing countries to disclose the payments they make to governments for such access. i have witnessed myself the disastrous consequences of resource curse, in countries such as botswana and angola, resulting in bad governance and inequality. i have been advocating for years for worldwide action on this issue, together with ngos such as global witness and others. i congratulate arlene on this excellent work, which has placed the issue at the top of the political agenda.
rapporteur. − mr president, i particularly want to thank the commissioner for his commitment to continuing country-by-country reporting and extending it. i never doubted that commitment, knowing commissioner barnier as i do, and i think that i can inform him that he has a public mandate for this role. a survey that i read yesterday said that four in five people say that multinationals which avoid tax make them angry. three in four people want companies to pay the proper amount of tax. 85% say that it is currently too easy for multinational corporations to avoid tax, and eight in 10 want to see multinational accounts made more transparent and publicly available. we have a mandate, and i think – in the wake of the starbucks, google and amazon tax avoidance scandals – that we do need to act on this mandate. however, colleagues, i do not want to take away from the victory that we have achieved here today for civil society and for greater transparency, and that is why i would like to introduce mr ali idrissa, who is here from niger. he is here to watch us take through this historic legislation tomorrow, because it matters. it matters to people in africa. it matters to people in his country, and i think that we are leading the way globally in making that change.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. − mr president, in the committee on transport and tourism we had a very interesting debate with a wide range of views at the time, but we came to some consensus on a number of points. one was to ensure that the conditions exist to open up the sector to free and fair competition. the other one was, really, to make sure that we are doing what we set out to do in the first place, such as: implementation of the recast of the first railway package; making sure that there is more liberalisation and more competition but at the same time making sure that consumers gain rather than lose out in any changes; making sure that there is a multimodal system for ticket reservation and sales, so that passengers can order and not just be restricted to one mode of transport. also when it came to the aviation sector and the eu-us air agreements, making sure that they were compatible regulatory approaches, making sure this happened. finally, we talked about the eu road haulage market. this could bring real benefits but at the same time we needed to ensure concerns were taken into account when it came to environmental issues and making sure it really did bring benefits to consumers. overall we had a good bit of work in the transport committee, but we pushed for greater liberalisation and more competition.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i want to take the opportunity this evening to welcome the announcement that the commissioner is going to bring forward the directive and recommendation for consumers to have a right of compensation if they have been victims due to breaches of anti-trust laws. i think that is fundamental and important and i congratulate you, because only 25% of anti-trust infringement decisions actually see victims get compensation. i think this is the way forward and, as you know, i take a very big interest in your investigations into the energy sector. that is why i am very pleased that you are continuing to look at the allegations of price-fixing of oil and gas markets. if consumers have been the victims of overcharging they do need to see redress because consumers are paying a high price for oil and gas. potentially this can have a knock-on effect for households, for business bills. it affects people when they put petrol in the car and it is not right, fundamentally, that people are paying more while companies are booking high profits on the basis of – potentially – manipulated prices. i believe that the eu, and you personally, play a vital role in investigating anti-trust violations. i think only the eu can bring these actions against companies or institutions. it is interesting that the uk office of fair trading abandoned an investigation over potential oil price-fixing manipulation and that is why, commissioner, we do have to rely on you and your services. i continue to put my trust and confidence in you restoring the kind of confidence and integrity that we need in markets by clamping down on any manipulation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, some 35 years ago i got a job as a history teacher. i was a terrible teacher. terrible. fortunately i got elected to liverpool city council and i found an excuse for getting out of the classroom, which was good for me and good for my students. but before starting that job i read a book which was slightly tongue in check, but it gave some advice to young teachers and it said, ‘find jimmy’. now jimmy is the good student. he is sitting there, he is quiet, he is well-behaved, he does his work, he has his hand up, he knows the answers. find him. find him committing some minor misdemeanour and shout at him. shout at him. send him out of the classroom. send him to the headteacher. give him detention. punish him. and then perhaps the 14-year-olds who are less well-behaved, and are going to cause a real problem, may get the message that if he does that to jimmy, what is he going to do to us? we want these iuu laws to be properly enforced and we have some powerful instruments now in the regulation before you, but how many people in the commission are there to enforce it? what are we talking about? we think of 500 million people in the european union and all the seas we have, and how many people do we actually have looking at this – two, three, four individuals actually doing this, trying to stop the rape of our seas? these countries’ fishermen are undermining all the decent fishermen, despoiling our seas, undercutting our rules, and we have just a couple of people trying to make sure enforcement happens. so all i can say to the commissioner is that we know it is complicated, we know we have to get it right, but can you, commissioner, try and make sure that there is solid concentration on mounting a really good case, one that is legally as strong as it can possibly be, on ‘jimmy’ or his iuu equivalents. poor old fiji, or belize, or something. someone whom we can really knock around, and then let us throw the book at them, throw the legal book, get them properly prosecuted for illegal fishing activities, everything we possibly can do that the regulation provides for, and then maybe the chinas and the koreas and the like will get the message.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it is a welcome opportunity to discuss the ongoing problems posed by illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing wherever it may come from. iuu fishing respects neither fishing boundaries nor international treaties and i welcome this move by the eu to close the loopholes that allow illegal operators to profit from their activities. this does untold damage to the underwater ecosystems and i know only too well in my own region the problems which they have experienced there and that illegal fishing is destroying life cycles and breeding patterns. illegal unreported and non-regulated fishing is bad for the industry and bad for the environment. iuu thrives where countries fail to meet their international responsibilities. the uk has been working with third countries to develop good fishing management and appropriate legal frameworks, and i welcome the move at eu level to encourage global cooperation in this fight against iuu. countries must do more, and they must take all the action which is required. of course in all walks of life, as those of us in politics know only too well, we can always do more. it is not enough to pay lip service and while it may be complicated, we must get this right.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, can i first of all thank mr capoulas santos for undertaking this report in the midst of intensive cap negotiations. i have to say to him that he really is a glutton for punishment. i thought he would have had enough to deal with without actually taking on board this report as well, and certainly it put extra pressure on us in the agricultural field within the european context. total cap expenditure has now reached the point at which financial discipline must be applied in order to ensure that spending remains within the allocated budget of the mff council conclusions. unfortunately the result of the vote in the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) leaves us with an adjustment rate and a threshold which will have a disproportionate and negative effect on farmers in many member states across the european union. with the threshold of eur 5 000 proposed in the report, 80 % of people would be excluded from financial discipline. now i do not know about you, but i would find it extremely difficult to justify to any of the farmers that i represent why 20 % of them will be required to cover the deficit which is incurred because of spending which could be attributed to 100 % of the member states and 100 % of the farmers. we should not support a measure which will undoubtedly lead to such extreme inequalities between farmers and between member states, and it certainly destroys any hope of a level playing field. on the direct payments regulation which is currently part of the cap reform dossier, this parliament voted to delete the financial discipline threshold. the objective of this mandate was to ensure that the burden of financial discipline is shared equally and fairly between farmers across the european union. that, mr president, is what i think we should do and that is what i think the commissioner should do, because i think that this proposal is totally unfair, totally inadequate and totally unacceptable.
author. − madam president, during this mandate we have had a deluge of financial services legislation from the commission: starting with aifmd and the establishment of the european supervisory authorities, progressing through numerous banking and market measures, depositor and investor protection, and with the single resolution mechanism still awaited. in all, there are over 40 initiatives that have been completed, are under way or are expected soon. the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) has long demanded an impact assessment on the financial legislation, and as much of it is now completed i remind the commission of its commitment to do a cost-benefit analysis on the proportionality and effectiveness of the legislation adopted since the beginning of the financial crisis. this should be launched now and completed before the end of this mandate. you may also be aware, commissioner, that the econ committee has launched its own second investigation and is collecting evidence now. concerning the flow of work, two things have been characteristic. first, that many proposals have taken the commission longer than expected or hoped. there are some excuses, but it remains a fact that there have been long delays, such as for the resolution mechanism which parliament wanted at the same time as the esas back in 2009, and also the long-awaited securities law directive. yes, these issues have difficult legal problems. that is all the more reason why we should have them early so that the co-legislators can get to work. the second characteristic is that parliament has worked both fast and diligently, providing input to the commission in advance of legislation and in response to consultations – and much faster than the council, so now there is a backlog with important proposals that stand little chance of getting to trialogue. there are others where, for lack of consensus in the council, the council is eating up all the time, for example on mifid and central securities depositories. harry potter may have to battle death-eaters. here in parliament we seem to have to battle time-eaters in the council. so we urge the council now to make the necessary progress so that trialogues can begin. and i give advance warning to look at the parliament positions, because we will not yield to the oft-played line that it is ‘a delicate balance in the council’. indeed, the more we are disappointed by proposals being stuck in the council, the more we will be determined to press our points in those that do reach trialogue. in our econ coordinators’ meeting yesterday, it was agreed that there would be no wind-down or slackening, despite the forthcoming elections. we will continue to work on all the dossiers as they come along, in addition to completing first readings on all the proposals that are currently on the table. i do understand prioritisation and that doing a little bit of everything and completing nothing is not the thing to do in this latter part of the mandate, but we do expect redoubled efforts from the council on pending proposals, to get as many as possible agreed before the end of the current parliament’s term. banking union is, of course, a priority for stability of both banks and sovereigns and so we urge the commission to adopt quickly its proposals for establishing a single resolution mechanism. and to complete work on the banking side, following capital requirements and resolution, we also ask for the follow-up to the recommendations of the liikanen group on bank structural reform. again, i reference the missing link of the securities law directive. but finally, and as i have already confirmed several times to the lithuanian presidency-in-waiting, access to basic bank accounts is a high priority for many citizens. we have spent thousands of hours on high finance and big business matters. now is the time to show that we will look after everyone in our society by giving access to this vital tool of modern life: a bank account. it would be reprehensible for the council to push that to one side as less important. it must be done.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am very grateful for the opportunity to take part in this discussion today, and in particular to clarify a number of points. i hope that this will enable all of us to move on and improve our co-operation in this area. firstly, i cannot agree with the underlying premise on which the question is based. it is neither reasonable nor correct to say that there is a lack of progress in council in the financial services sector. quite the contrary – the council is continuing to make significant progress in very complicated negotiations on some very important files. so far we have given particular priority to those legislative files related to the banking sector. this is fully justified, given the importance of this sector and the need to break the link between the banks and sovereign debt. i would like to clearly set out the significant progress we have made in the financial services area in just a few short months. first, we have reached political agreement on two fundamental building blocks in reforming the banking sector and the future banking union: the agreement on the banking supervision package as well as the capital requirements directive and regulation. i have referred on several occasions to the importance of these legislative acts and they have been highlighted as key priorities for us from the very beginning of our presidency programme. i note that the european parliament has postponed its vote on the ssm package to the september plenary. i hope very much that this timetable change will not complicate completion of this work. on crd iv, which will be formally adopted by both institutions in the next few days and published before july, the negotiations have been long and difficult. in april we reached political agreement on the mortgage credit directive, which will allow for rapid implementation of the new rules benefiting mortgage holders and consumers across europe. i expect that this directive will be adopted at first reading, if the european parliament continues to respect the terms of the 2011 joint political declaration on explanatory documents. we have also recently reached political agreement on the transparency directive, which will increase the attractiveness of regulated markets for small and medium-sized issuers. let me thank you in the parliament for your excellent co-operation on this dossier and indeed on other dossiers. it is only fair, however, to also refer to some of the difficulties and challenges we face. today we have around twenty legislative proposals in the financial services sector on the table and as we reach agreement on some, new proposals come to the table. commissioner barnier said recently that there is no valid reason to stop issuing new proposals. he is right, given the circumstances – but it is also true that some of the commission’s proposals, as well as the amendments proposed by the european parliament; require further elaboration. they benefit from open discussion and debate and this helps to improve them. for this we need to draw on the expertise in member state governments. our main objective has been to deliver high-quality legislation which is realistic, effective and operational. we should aim to deliver fast, but not sacrifice quality as a result. i think this is a reasonable approach and it has served us well. one example is the mifid/mifir review process. this is the cornerstone of the eu’s implementation of the g20 commitments on the way financial markets operate. mifid (the markets in financial instruments directive) needs to be adapted to keep up with technological developments and financial innovation. the impact of the new rules cannot be underestimated and it is vital to get them right. the council has been working extremely hard to achieve a better and more balanced text. this is something that cannot be done overnight, clearly. another example is the negotiation on the deposit guarantee schemes (dgs). the approach we have taken is to complete the financing arrangements in the bank recovery and resolution (brr) proposal as there are obvious overlaps with financing of deposit guarantee schemes where member states decide to have one fund for both brr and dgs or a separate fund for each. it makes sense to put the dgs proposal on hold until then, since the funding of member state deposit guarantee schemes is complementary to their resolution funds. on this, parliament itself chose to vote its opinion at first reading on the text in february 2012, while the council was working hard to continue the negotiations in trialogues. on the investor compensation schemes directive, given its link with the deposit guarantee schemes directive, these negotiations will need to wait for an agreement on that file. on solvency ii, we recognise the importance of ensuring that prudential requirements in the insurance business rely on risk-based methodologies. but we will not be able to provide our contribution immediately. this is because the negotiations are awaiting the outcome of an ex-ante impact assessment requested by the european parliament during the negotiations last year with the council. progress overall has been impressive, contrary to what is suggested in your question. of course we can always improve and do better. the council for its part will keep up the necessary pace and quality. i hope parliament will continue to do the same. looking forward, we are looking to agree a general approach in the council on the bank recovery and resolution directive and on the legislative proposal relating to packaged retail investment products. the european council has called for the adoption of the forthcoming proposal on a single resolution mechanism by the end of this parliamentary term. we aim to respect this timeframe. this will be yet another priority file. we had hoped to reach political agreement on the market abuse regulation but we are not sure now of the prospects following the parliament's cancellation of tomorrow’s trialogue. on the central securities depositories regulation, we have made good progress and are aiming to reach a general approach this month, in order to start trialogues with the parliament as soon as possible. we will also continue to work hard on other files, such as ucits and the commission proposals to improve the existing rules on anti-money laundering and fund transfers, in accordance with the guidelines given by the european council. these objectives are achievable, and will require the support of the commission and the european parliament so we can continue to cooperate constructively with the aim of reaching an acceptable compromise. by way of conclusion, i do not accept that there has been a lack of progress in the council on the financial services files. in fact, as outlined above, there has been huge progress on these files, many of which are extremely complex and detailed. we are aiming for rapid results, but we are also aiming for an outcome in terms of quality – and sometimes that does take time. so we look to parliament also to play its role, and i look forward to hearing from you on how you intend to do that over the coming months.
member of the commission. - madam president, hello to each and every one of you. first of all, i would like to thank sharon bowles and the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy for this question. i think that, madam president, just over three years after the beginning of this parliamentary term, five years after the start of the terrible financial crisis which came from the united states and spread to europe, and whose consequences are far from over, the time has come this year, in 2013, to check whether we have done what we said we would do, to assess what we have done and to ask ourselves with all our lucidity: 'how do we need to go further, in particular to take account of the economic and social situation and do more?' i am very grateful to your parliament for giving me the opportunity, through this question, to take stock. i am happy to do so also in the presence of lucinda creighton and the irish presidency. i would like to personally thank the irish presidency and the teams of minister michael noonan, on behalf of all my teams, for their very great determination and the great skill with which they are working at the moment. we have launched together, ladies and gentlemen, three years ago, now that i have been here for three years, an agenda. sharon bowles spoke of a flood earlier, i do not know if that is the right word, but it is a new financial regulation. i will summarize in this little document that you know, which presents the state of play, where we are with the measures that have already been voted, those that are being voted on, those that are before us. why did we do that? because obviously, this financial crisis has reasons and causes. the main cause of this, in my view, is the lack of global regulation, the lack of proper supervision of the bankers who have been allowed everything and who have believed themselves to be allowed everything, with insane bonuses; encouraging risk-taking so that, ultimately, taxpayers pay for the risks; the banks are undercapitalised; no liquidity ratio. we've made all these lists without mentioning all the other actors. we are dealing, as the g20 has asked us to, as we need to at the global and european level, with every actor, every product, every sector, none of which can and must escape public regulation and intelligent supervision. that's the point of our work. ladies and gentlemen, there is no room today for fatigue, for rest, as i sometimes hear. there is a place - and this is the spirit of mrs sharon bowles' oral question - for vigilance, for determination and for pragmatism in all our texts. i'd like to discuss our priorities for the next six months beyond what's already been done with you. as regards the banking union, which lucinda creighton mentioned, we want to conclude very quickly on the proposal i made to you over a year ago on the resolution. i thank gunnar hökmark and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for their vote last month. we are working very hard to ensure that at the next ecofin council on 21 june the council will be able to reach a common position and that we can then begin working together with parliament. i also want to say that on the last piece of this resolution package, i am working with all my teams to present in the very next few weeks, in the next few days, the proposal for the single resolution mechanism in europe. we will put forward this proposal and it will be discussed with the lithuanian presidency. in the same spirit, i hope that we can resume very quickly - i discussed this with peter simon yesterday - the text on deposit guarantees, since there is a link between soundness and prevention in banks, particularly in protecting depositors. as regards the second construction site, all these laws, ladies and gentlemen, are essentially, as you know, remedial and preventive laws. sometimes repressive laws - i am thinking of the market abuse directive. the minister was speaking earlier about a text which i very much like, namely the fight against money laundering and the financing of crime. all these laws are part of the necessary response and the mandatory prevention, now, in relation to the financial crisis. we must finish this "reparative" regulatory agenda, and i quote telegraphically from markus ferber's work on mifid. the discussions are now progressing in the council with an agreement which i believe is close under the irish presidency and we will be able to start the trilogues under the lithuanian presidency. as far as market abuse is concerned, with arlene mccarthy we are close to an agreement which should be formalised in parallel with mifid. i also recently discussed with burkhard balz the negotiations on the omnibus, which will be able to resume very soon on the basis of the supplementary study which i had requested in agreement with you from eiopa, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. as regards the third area, as i have often said, we must now move from this reactive and preventive regulation, by putting an end to it in earnest, to a form of regulation - i was going to say pro-growth regulation - which is more proactive and more dynamic, to encourage and facilitate the recovery of growth beyond all the measures taken in each country and at the collective level. this is the meaning of several proposals i have made in this agenda: the european social entrepreneurship funds; the passport for venture capital; the thinking we are engaging in to support and intelligently frame crowdfunding, this new form of participatory financing; the text mr klute is familiar with and will be dealing with, concerning the basic bank account on transparency, bank mobility and transparency of bank charges; i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and also for the work he has done on the green paper on longterm financing. ladies and gentlemen, we will be judged on our method of work as well, beyond the substance. we are faithful to our own commitment not to improvise, but to work quickly, seriously and to regulate more intelligently. we consult and debate on every proposal. i attach great importance to these impact studies and indeed, mrs bowles, the time has come to do a more comprehensive study, even though i had the idea of doing it seriously before i had texts which, incidentally, are quite different sometimes at the end of the legislative process, often improved by you, compared to the original texts i am presenting. on the basis of the texts which have now all come to maturity, we know the reality and the precision of them, the time has come to do the overall impact study and i am looking for the best way to do it quickly and objectively to assess the importance of all these texts for regulation but also for the economy. i would also like to point out that the european parliament has improved these texts on numerous occasions and has helped to consolidate them. in conclusion, i would like to say a few words, very quickly, about the two points you specifically mentioned, madam president. as far as the legislation on the right of title is concerned, it is a very complex subject, at the heart of civil law and national property law. there is a great deal of divergence between the 27 or 28 member states in this area. that is why we have examined all the national rules on the law of title. it was a long-term review, but it was a requirement, a prerequisite for a text. the commission organised a public consultation on the legal aspects of securities law in 2011. we have participated in international working groups on the regulatory framework for loans and securities repossessions. we are now at a very advanced stage of our impact study. this work will continue until the commission is able to present a legislative proposal, which i hope to be able to do on this subject, madam president, next autumn. as regards the payment services directive (psd), the retail payments market has seen many significant innovations in recent years, particularly in the area of card, internet and mobile payments. this revolution is not over. the existing directive dates from 2007. it is no longer adapted to present conditions. the commission carried out a public consultation in 2012 with a green paper on card, internet and mobile payments. the european parliament has made a very useful contribution with this resolution tabled by mr sampo terho in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and mr sergio gaetano cofferati in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we're taking that into account. we are working hard on the revision of this directive on payment services. one of the single market act's priority measures, a report on the implementation of the psd has been drawn up and an impact assessment finalised. we are planning, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt a 'payment package' in mid-july, that is to say next month, which will also contain the report on the implementation of the psd, as provided for in the directive. i think we have continued to work on these specific subjects, as on all the others, with determination, with great determination, but also without improvisation. i thank you for allowing me to confirm this to you this morning.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the financial crisis necessitated legislative action. it was needed for customer and investor confidence, needed for the flow of capital into and within the eu – which is critical for economic growth – and needed for eu companies and foreign direct investment, which need confidence in our system. however, incomplete legislation does not give a signal of confidence. it creates uncertainty and will deter companies, individuals and global companies from our markets. we have been working on regulating global derivatives since the g20 conference in pittsburgh. although we have completed emir level 1, we are a long way off making level 2 work in a global context, and even further away from meeting the trading obligation, which is now buried in the highly politicised mifid and mifir dossiers in council. if we begin legislation we need to be able to complete it in a timely way. for example, the csdr file should send a positive message; it should further the single market in post-trade services and standardise key infrastructure and processes in readiness for t2s, a major european project to be launched in 2015. it has unanimous support in the european parliament and is supported by the industry and investors across the eu, but still seems to be stuck in the council. we need to make sure we have processes in place for recovery and resolution, not just for our banks but also for all our critical market infrastructure, including the newly enlarged ccps and csds. a perceived lack of progress on key files results in a lack of confidence and a lack of certainty for businesses in a global marketplace, and it certainly results in a lack of confidence from our citizens in our ability to deliver a safer, more efficient financial system for them. let us do less, but do it better.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, as a matter of fact, i am not without some sympathy with the council on this because you are trying to do the impossible. i think parliament is trying to make you do the impossible. the long and short of it is – as well known in austrian economics – that, in order to regulate financial services, you would need perfect knowledge of the market. that is impossible and cannot be done. it is sometimes know as the fatal conceit. what we need to go back to is liberty of contract so that the individual, the investor, can contract under law in a property-owning democracy with whomsoever banker or investment manager he wants, without the interference of the state and the implicit guarantee of the taxpayer that goes with it. central bankers and retail bankers hide behind regulation. they are not dominated or guided by regulation. it is what keeps these people out of prison when they cheat the general public. you are part of the conspiracy. for goodness sake, move away from prescriptive regulation and let the law of the land take its course.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, three years ago mr barroso’s commission, as part of the troika, predicted that greece would grow by 2.1% in 2012. in the real world of course we know that this was completely fallacious and greece in fact contracted by 6.4% in 2012. this forecast sums up much of what is wrong in europe today. of course the prediction was nonsense – many people said at the time that it would be – yet our leaders keep insisting on promising us things that they cannot deliver, guaranteeing us benefits and payments that have not been earned through productivity, with the bill of course being passed to our children and grandchildren. in greece the imf confirms that the policies being pursued there by the troika have been nothing short of disastrous. youth unemployment is now at 58.3%. surely, commissioner rehn, it is time to stop trying to blame everyone else. take some responsibility yourself and try and find a different course. likewise when it comes to the growing problem of youth unemployment – many people have mentioned it today – what is our answer? to once again promise what effectively we cannot deliver. mr swoboda of course has the right intentions when he talks about a youth guarantee but how are we going to create all these extra new jobs? more taxes, more regulation, more europe seems to be offered to us today. socialists believe that governments can create jobs and growth. well they cannot. this attitude is part of the reason for the current debt mountain that we have in many of our member states. the much vaunted european social model is failing to deliver its core objectives of providing employment and adequate social conditions. as the former british prime minister tony blair – i think a member of your affinity, mr swoboda – said in 2005: what type of social model is it that has 20 million people unemployed? i wonder what he would say today now that figure has risen to 26 million people unemployed. so we need a completely new model in the eu: one based on freedom, based on liberalism, based on open markets and based on free trade. instead of tackling the symptoms of our economic woes, let us tackle the causes. instead of timid efforts to open up markets, we need bold and ambitious proposals. at present every forward step on completing the single market or on signing a free trade agreement is countered by one backwards from the commission’s socialist affairs directive in league with this parliament’s unemployment committee. frankly it is irresponsible to promise a job for every young person in europe. what we can do is say that we will tear up the legislation that discourages work, that drives up energy prices, that ties entrepreneurs and businesses down in bureaucracy and that closes our markets. we should also say that we will do what we can to cut the taxation which depresses growth in so many of our economies. on the issue of taxation, i read at the weekend that the commission is demanding that spain increase vat on food. i ask myself: what alternative reality does the commission live in? people in spain are trying to feed themselves and the commission is trying to make it harder for them. with such warped priorities is it any wonder that according to the latest polls 72% of spanish people no longer trust the eu? throughout history socialist policies, centralised economies have failed. economies based on personal freedom and responsibility have thrived. socialism is all about promising people things that can never be delivered. we only have to look at france for our example. president hollande was elected pretending that things could go on as normal, as if governments could somehow create jobs and wealth out of thin air, and workers can have limitless social protection if only we could erect some kind of economic maginot line around europe’s borders! well, of course, we know he has been mugged by reality. french unemployment is now at its highest for 15 years and yet, as other speakers have said, this weekend he told us that the crisis in europe is now over, as if we needed further proof of how out of touch he is. so, instead of more socialism, let us allow businesses to do what they do best: create wealth. let us stop trying to start a pointless trade war with china and instead seek to lead the world in opening up trade access. let us be honest that free trade is about concentrated losses, but it is also about dispersed gains, so in the long run everybody gains although one or two people may lose. so let us drop this futile effort to protect the uncompetitive french film industry in the us trade deal. let us start trusting people again to take responsibility for their own destinies. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, mr callanan and his uk conservative colleagues are determined to paint a picture of a european union that does not work. but, mr callanan, one of your party’s members, lord tebbit, once said to people: ‘get on your bikes and look for work’. would you not welcome the initiative by the german labour minister ursula von der leyen, who is going to rome in two days’ time to meet with her counterparts from spain and france and italy and advertise the opportunity of work places in germany, where there are one million jobs vacant, where there are 33 000 vocational training places and where eur 140 million is being invested in teaching people the german language? surely this is precisely the kind of cooperation that we need and a sign that the european union is indeed working in the way that some in your party would once have recognised that it should?
blue-card answer. – if the germans wish to have other people go into their labour markets and take available jobs, of course that is entirely a matter for the german government. it is, however, the german government that is doing this; it has nothing to do with the eu. individual governments are quite able to speak for themselves. i am sure spanish people are perfectly able to travel to germany to work. many british people used to travel to germany to work even before we were members of the eu, so i am not quite sure what point you are trying to make. however, i welcome this excellent initiative if that is what the german government wishes to do. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – apologies if we got ms goulard’s name wrong; she is probably another french protectionist. the reality is that free trade is always a good thing; free trade with china has been a good thing. one of the best things that we can do in the eu for the development of its economy to create more jobs and more wealth – something we all say we want – is to have a free-trade agreement with the united states of america: the two largest economies in the world coming together to trade freely to generate prosperity for everyone. i am afraid everybody should welcome that, and we should not let french protectionists try and prevent us from reaching that agreement.
mr president, i contend that the eu is the sick man of the developed world, as much mentally ill as physically. the eu leaders meet for another late-night supper, then adjourn to the drawing room for their usual game of economic bluff, while quislings put together some incoherent mumbo-jumbo communiqué. the idea of the game is simple: to let all 27 leaders leave with some credibility and be able to say that something has been won for their countries. in the uk we know that the game is eu deception: a game our last eight prime ministers have played in brussels. the real losers are the people of europe, who pay for this late-night folly. some ex-players of the game, such as former chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson, have now said that it is time the uk left the eu. of course he was rounded on by europhile business leaders coming out with the usual tripe about uk trade being affected. i wholeheartedly agree with his response on the bbc this week, when he called them economic illiterates. we know about these scaremongering stories; during the single currency debate of the late 1990s, nissan warned that they would remove their investment from the uk if we did not join the euro. well, they did not. in fact they invested more. i suggest a new game for thursday night called ‘reality’, where europe’s leaders realise that their beloved europe federal project has failed and that the single currency is unsustainable without the express consent of the people of europe to federalising steps, and understand that the people of the uk no longer wish to subsidise your pie-in-the-sky projects whilst they are suffering crippling cut-backs at home. i understand that the best treatment for mental illness is accepting the illness and accepting reality. i commend it to you.
mr president, the implementation of the compact for jobs and growth is to be discussed. if only words were deeds, if only wishes were achievements. the impact of tight budgetary constraint was to be monitored, but it did not act on what it saw. you cannot make a population richer by making it poorer. it promised to promote growth and competitiveness. how do the high-wage economies of europe compete with the slave-labour wages of the so-called ‘emergent economies’? how do countries with an over-valued currency that cannot be changed unilaterally become more competitive without devaluation? the single market is seen as a panacea for all ills, but it has facilitated the export of jobs from higher-wage economies to lower-wage economies. improving training for the unemployed will make individuals better able to compete with their fellows. it might also marginally improve the efficiency of industry and commerce. however, it will not increase the total number of jobs immediately. mr barroso believes confidence is a key to growth. it will be effective only if that confidence is soundly based. however, investors can see that the eu’s embrace of the ideology of globalism will destroy european industry and reward the emergent economies, and they will invest accordingly. individuals might prefer to invest in their own countries, but their investment funds are, unfortunately, profit maximisers.
mr president, it is wonderful that heads of government and heads of state come here to set out their agenda, and dialogue is never a bad thing. however, i think there is one notable exception, or rather one person who has not come here who has a lot to say about europe. that is the uk prime minister david cameron, who reckons he can renegotiate, for example, the social chapter. is it not about time that he came to this chamber and explained what he really meant, so that we, the elected representatives of people across europe, could see whether the uk actually could renegotiate its terms of membership?
rapporteur. − mr president, i will be brief. i just wanted to share the news that where europe leads, the rest of the world follows and that is the case for greater transparency for the extractive industries. yesterday the swiss national federal council passed a resolution on introducing transparency for the extractive industries, the canadian mining companies have now reached an agreement, and i hope that this will serve as a call for action for next week’s g8 for greater transparency across all industries in the world. but it is important that we acknowledge the role of citizens and ngos, such as publish what you pay, global witness, and the one campaign, the role they have played over the last ten years in campaigning for change, for communities to reap the benefits from the natural resources of which for too long they have been robbed. so i want colleagues to join me in welcoming them today in the tribune. they are here to witness what for them is a historic vote and they are joined by representatives from the democratic republic of congo and from niger: ali idrissa and jean-claude katende. (loud applause)
in writing. − i voted for the appointment of mr neven mimica as a commissioner and wish him well in his new post.
mr president, this report is emblematic. it is not so much important in itself as symbolic of the powerlessness of democracy and of popular will in europe. in every member state there is a majority of people who are against the waste of money involved in this monthly peregrination between two seats. for what it is worth, i am pretty relaxed about which one we choose. i would be very happy to meet in strasbourg all the time. it is a reminder of the days when the european union was still a club of nations sharing out the institutions rather than having a federal capital, but my point is not really about the ‘one seat’ issue. it is about the way in which, repeatedly, this chamber votes to do something about it and nothing happens. the reason nothing happens is because of what milton friedman calls ‘the tyranny of the status quo’, the sheer volume of vested interests which have grown up around the established dispensation from the authorities of the two towns, down to the removal men and lorry drivers who bring the empty trunks – or empty but for the occasional wash-bag or rattling pair of shoes – back and forth every month in that huge fleet of lorries emitting all the carbon emissions which we are always lecturing everybody else about. it does not matter how you vote because the system carries on unchanged.
mr president, this is surely one of those issues that unites people across the spectrum in this parliament. there are different views on many issues, but on this particular issue of having to make that monthly trek to strasbourg, surely it is time that the governments of the eu listened to the parliamentarians in this chamber. what hypocrisy this demonstrates. on the one hand we talk about cutting co2 emissions, yet on the other we are perfectly happy to maintain two parliaments and come here once a month, with all the waste of co2 emissions that involves. we talk about better use of resources and even ask for an increase in the budget, yet we waste money on maintaining this parliament here. surely if we are to show that we are in touch with the people, particularly at this difficult time, it is time to close down one of the parliaments and make sure that we have one seat for european parliamentarians.
in writing. − for. i voted in favour of this report as it aims to re-establish mini plenary sessions in brussels. this clearly demonstrates that votes, and indeed parliamentary work as a whole, can be easily executed from one seat here, thus eliminating the need to travel to strasbourg every month which is both expensive and time-consuming.
in writing. − i voted against the epp amendment attempting to remove brussels sessions from the calendar.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal to adjust committee membership which was sensible and logical.
in writing. − i voted against mr mates becoming a member of the court of auditors as, as found by the budgetary control committee, he will not gain the approval of the parliament. i am particularly concerned about his connection with imf and his lack of experience on sensu largo european soil.
in writing. − not having been involved in the hearings, i followed the advice of the rapporteur in relation to the appointment of mr neven mates to the court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted for this appointment as his professional background and experience would be an asset to the current composition of the eca.
in writing. − against. although the budgetary control committee approved the candidacy of mr pufan, i am not convinced that he would be a good auditor in cases involving the uk, especially since he seems to have very little experience outside romania.
in writing. − i am happy to have voted for mr george pufan to become a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted for mr pufan’s candidature as he is well-qualified for the job and shows a lot of technical knowledge pertaining to the court of auditors.
mr president, here in the eu we spend large amounts of our time, energy and resources setting out a myriad of complicated rules on the governance of fishing activities in our own european waters and beyond through a series of complicated agreements with non-eu states. all this activity is utterly pointless if illegal fishing is allowed to thrive. it is vital that every possible measure is taken to combat illegal activities. although this report is largely technical, it is through these technical measures and the detailed activities that they support, or outlaw, that we are able to move forward. i wholeheartedly support them.
mr president, i love the way we talk about illegal and unregulated fishing. i have noticed in the fourteen years that i have been in this chamber that ‘illegal’ and ‘unregulated’, in the minds of the eurocrats, are virtually synonymous concepts. again and again you find yourself saying, why do we need a new law on so-and-so? why do we need a new european policy in this area? and the answer comes back: because there isn’t one! because the system is currently unregulated! the idea that that is the natural state of affairs – that if there is not a problem, you do not need to fix it – is alien to the thinking of this chamber. the fisheries policy which we are talking about is a very good demonstration of that precept. if you look at successful sustainability in the falkland islands, in iceland, in norway, in new zealand, they are based on the principle of private ownership. the more laws and the more quotas and the more intrusive regulation we have had in north sea waters, the more we have eliminated the fish stocks and left empty and sterile the oceans that once contained a great renewable resource.
mr president, it is quite clear that policy we call ‘the common fisheries policy’, or others looking from afar would call ‘the communist fisheries policy’, where we use central planning to decide quotas and fishing rights, has clearly failed. in any system like that it is clear that people will resort to illegal means and game the system. surely we should look at some of the more successful systems of the world, ones based on property rights, on tradable quotas, where you actually have an incentive to make sure that you sustain fish stocks but you also have an incentive to make sure that those stocks and those quotas are protected because your livelihood depends on it. surely we should learn the lessons of a free market solution to the sustainability of fishing stocks, rather than relying on a policy of 1950s communist central planning, which has actually led to failure. if we could learn those lessons then maybe the citizens of our various eu countries would understand that we have learnt the lessons from the cold war and it is time to set the market free.
in writing. − abstain. this report amends existing legislation in order to try and stop various states paying lip-service to rules while continuing to flout them – this is very important if we are to ensure that fish stocks are raised by third country fleets. in my opinion, this change is certainly a good thing. however, the best choice for the uk, and especially wales, would be to get back to the montego bay convention and withdraw from common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on an eu system to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. fishing is important to wales and we need to ensure that the livelihoods of those involved are protected, as well as ensuring that the produce we eat is safe. putting a stop to illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is essential in achieving this. this is an important piece of legislation which has widespread support.
in writing. − i welcome this further development in tackling illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. fish caught illegally can often appear economically attractive. but it is caught by disregarding environmental, social and other standards and the fishermen can usually sell it for less money.
in writing. − at billingsgate, my constituency of london hosts one of the largest fish markets in the country. fishing is a vital part of trade in london, unsustainable fishing is damaging to the environment, our trade and our children’s future. i support this report because we have to put sustainability at the heart of our action, both for fish caught in our waters and for fish caught in other waters.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it emphasises the pressing issue to put sustainable fishing as our priority, not only in eu waters but also for fish caught in waters outside of the eu.
mr president, i am extremely proud to represent my london constituency, which is widely recognised as being one of the most multicultural and diverse cities in the world. however, i stand firm in my opposition to the creation of a harmonised european asylum and immigration system. i strongly believe that, while cooperation in asylum and migration issues may undoubtedly be sometimes necessary, it is paramount that this remains primarily a member state competence. large-scale immigration to the uk in recent years is placing unsustainable pressure on britain’s public resources. i cannot support a directive that would jeopardise britain’s sovereignty to regulate in this priority policy area. nevertheless, i recognise that there are indeed certain beneficial aspects in the proposed directive: its focus on enhancing the quality of legislation cannot be questioned, for instance, and it does well to detail improved measures for the protection of unaccompanied minors, whilst also going some way in the direction of recognising the competence of member states in regulating their own labour markets. tougher immigration controls are at the top of the political agenda in the uk right now, so i cannot support this directive as currently framed.
mr president, immigration and asylum policy have to rest on a measure of public consent. most people accept that there is bound to be a measure of net inward migration into western developed countries, but they want a sense of roughly whom they are admitting and roughly in what numbers. in the field of asylum policy, above all, they feel they have lost that sense because it is increasingly determined by human rights codes, by judges and by unaccountable bureaucracies. there are all sorts of cases of people who plainly have entered many member states illegally on forged documents, but are then allowed to remain as asylum seekers because of some interpretation, some interpretive and expansive view taken by judges. i would go in completely the opposite direction: instead of harmonising asylum processes across the eu, i would give each interior minister or home secretary a discretionary right to admit 1 000 people every year to their member state. i would not pretend that it was anything other than discretionary, but that would be a way, it seems to me, of bringing this policy back within the orbit of public opinion.
in writing. − against. while the uk would not be bound by this new directive, i voted against it as the parliament’s claim that it aims to ban the ‘unnecessary and disproportionate’ documentation requirements for asylum-seekers to obtain benefits is essentially shorthand for the fact that asylum-seekers would be granted access to employment after having waited nine months for a first-instance decision, instead of the 12 months at present.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers. the common european asylum system is a package of different measures and, even after five years of negotiation, the overall result is disappointing and the system has not improved. it is important to my constituents in wales, as it is to countries throughout the eu, to address this crucial issue that is under so much scrutiny at the moment. we have a duty to offer protection to those that are fleeing persecution and ensure that there are high standards for the way in which applications are treated.
in writing. − i welcome this recast proposal for laying down standards for the reception of applicants for international protection.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it provides for a fairer and better system of asylum decisions across the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which will ensure that a fairer and more harmonised system will be put in place to protect asylum seekers in eu member states. under current eu law it is not required to make a decision regarding an asylum seeker’s application within a specific timeframe, leaving applicants vulnerable to long-term insecurity. this new package will change this system, implementing a new six-month deadline for handling applications, which will also help resolve disparities between different frameworks across the member states. furthermore, these new regulations will ensure that asylum seekers cannot be transferred to eu member states where they may be at risk of being treated in a degrading manner. reform of eu asylum rules is essential and this legislative package will lead to a fairer and better system, with a sharper focus on the human rights of asylum seekers.
in writing. − i am against the asylum package as a whole as i see it as little more than an unnecessary burden to member states.
in writing. − i voted for this recast proposal detailing criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for the application for international protection lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national or a stateless person.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it calls for the possibility of assessing whether any illegal checks are being carried out at internal borders, namely through the possibility of making completely unannounced visits.
in writing. − this regulation within the asylum package was approved without a vote – i firmly believe that this is against the principle of democracy. moreover, i believe that granting and withdrawing international protection should, in the uk’s case, be dealt with by our national regulations and, of course, international treaties. the very high standards of uk humanitarian law should not be spoiled by eu legislation.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal, which sets out common procedures for granting and withdrawing asylum.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it provides for clear rules on access to the asylum procedure and detailed rules on training of both the determining authority and other competent authorities.
mr president, social policy is a member state competence. any food aids for our deprived populations should be funded by national welfare programmes. we do not need a one-size-fits-all eu social policy because, let us not forget, it is a one-size-fits-all eu economic policy which got us into this mess. without the disaster that is the euro we would have had many fewer people in need of food aid. in greece thousands are reliant on handouts of donated food, unused medicine and clothes to survive. the spanish red cross is supporting three million spaniards with food aid, and last month a container of hundreds of tons of food and provisions left london for cyprus, having been collected by the cypriot community in my constituency. the eu is in need of urgent reform. we need a competitive, flexible eu which works for the interests of the citizens, not an eu which wastes money on high-minded projects such as this.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report for an eu fund for european aid to the most deprived. i do not believe emergency provisions should ever be considered by policymakers as a sustainable or permanent solution to the effect of poverty. however, it is unfortunately becoming a necessary lifeline in countries such as ireland for those struggling on the margins of society. this new fund will replace the previous aid scheme for the most deprived. it is right that the commission should continue with the principle of providing at least some of the basic and essential services for the most deprived. after all, it is the commission and its troika cronies’ failed austerity policies implemented by governments, such as in the south of ireland, which have caused such pain and hardship in recent years. as the levels of poverty continue to rise across europe, we must show solidarity with those most in need.
mr president, i did not vote for this report. this fund was set up to deal with the inevitable results of previous common agricultural policy regulations which led to the build up of unwanted stocks of food. we all remember wine lakes and butter mountains. perhaps there was some logic to the eu having a policy to distribute these to people in need in the eu, but this is no longer the case. i absolutely object to this proposal which expands the budget for this intervention, calling for an increase of eur 1 billion on the agreement of february 2013. let us get back to reality. where is that money going to come from? by requiring mandatory involvement for all member states, there is a clear contradiction of the principle of subsidiary. of course if some here have their way with the extension of coupled payments and market interventions, surpluses may well recur in a big way, and perhaps that is what those who support this measure are anticipating and planning for.
mr president, yes, i agree with several of the other speakers who have said that this fund should not be seen as a permanent fixture in the budget. however, i think it would be grossly insensitive to scrap it at this moment, considering the current crisis. however, some of those on the left of the chamber have probably, by their insistence that this be a mandatory fund, made that more likely, because of the council position. i think this is stupid game-playing in some respects, because if we can continue this as a voluntary fund for the next mff, then those member states that really need this fund can use it and those member states that do not need this fund can choose not to use it. as we have set it up at the moment, with it being a mandatory fund, we will find that there will be those member states that do not decide to use it and will simply return the money and it will then appear as an underspend. i do not think this is a sensible suggestion.
mr president, no one can fail to have been touched by the pictures of those who are suffering as a result of this crisis, but we also have to learn the lessons from the crisis and what caused the crisis in the first place. too many governments across the world, including in the eu, spent more money than they had coming in. we also had a banking crisis, but on top of that you have struggled to keep the eurozone together. there are two solutions to solving the euro crisis. the first is to let those weaker countries go, devalue and be more competitive, which would allow those countries to create jobs and wealth for their citizens. the alternative is a one-size-fits-all policy aimed at keeping all those countries in, no matter what the price. that seems to be the price you, as european policymakers and those that support the eurozone, are prepared to pay. it is all very well shedding tears about the citizens of those countries, but when you pursue a one-size-fits-all eurozone policy, the implication of this policy is the poverty that we are seeing in all these eu countries.
in writing. − i firmly believe that the right to decide if a member state wants to participate in the action should not be changed to a ‘requirement’ as suggested in article 7. the most important issue here, though, is the fact that the eu is capitalising on the terrible and very sad situation many people find themselves in, in order to gain better pr.
in writing. − i voted to refer this dossier back to the employment committee to start negotiations with the council to try and reach a first reading agreement. i support voluntary participation by member states in this scheme. i believe it is up to them to decide how to distribute their structural fund share into esf, erdf, fead, etc. greater flexibility will allow member states to put the funding into the areas where they need it most. wales is a net beneficiary of eu funding and it is in the welsh national interest to ensure that funding is available in the areas that will gain most benefit.
in writing. − i welcome this report on european aid to the most deprived. through the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the target of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 20 million by 2020. the economic and financial crisis, however, is exacerbating poverty and social exclusion across the union. almost 120 million europeans, a rise of six million in two years and nearly one quarter of the total population, were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2011. over 40 million suffer from severe material deprivation. one in ten under 60-year-olds live in households with low work intensity.
in writing. − at least 42,064 people visited food banks in my constituency of london last year, compared to 14,569 people the previous year. there is an urgent need for the assistance this report will provide for the most deprived and i am happy to support a report which is stepping in where the coalition government has failed.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it calls for greater provision of support for the most deprived as i fully back this as it is part of the labour party policy.
in writing. − the fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead) will replace and expand on the eu food aid programme. fead will provide financial assistance to the most deprived eu citizens, including the homeless and children living in poverty. with 40 million people living in extreme poverty across europe and a huge rise in those visiting food banks, there is clearly a moral imperative for us to make sure we direct some of our resources to helping those who are most in need. this report calls for eur 3.5bn to be made available from 2014-20 in order to do just that. the uk government has chosen not to participate in the scheme and argues that such measures should be left to individual member states. however, so far the uk government has not proposed alternative measures for helping the most deprived and, for this reason, i chose to support the report.
in writing. − this report gives europol and member states the right to request the fingerprint information of asylum seekers. this will stop the abuse of the extremely generous eu asylum system which i am against as a whole as more often than not it is used by transnational organised crime nexuses and human traffickers for their profit.
in writing. − i voted against the macovei report on the establishment of eurodac for the comparison of fingerprints. i regret that this was passed by a majority in parliament, meaning that the database will now be open for law enforcement access. this will mean that asylum seekers and refugees can be treated as criminals upon arrival. it is important to us in wales that those fleeing persecution or oppression are treated with respect rather than viewed as potential criminals.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. organised crime networks from third countries seek to abuse the asylum system to bring criminal members of a network into an eu member state as contacts for their criminal business. once within the territory of an eu member state, these members of the organised crime network ask for asylum with false identities in order to get a legitimate stay in the eu without any criminal record. moreover, information provided by europol suggests that human traffickers also seek to abuse the asylum system by requesting asylum alleging a false country of origin. with these concerns in mind, the rapporteur welcomes the possibility for member states’ designated authorities and the european police office (europol) to request the comparison of fingerprint data – on a hit/no hit basis – with those stored in the eurodac database for the fight against terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. the rapporteur believes that providing for law enforcement access to eurodac is a significant step forward from the last proposal, capable of preventing the type of situations described above while being accompanied by the necessary safeguards.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the report provides for substantial improvements compared to the current system of first-phase measures. the recast eurodac will create clearer added value and lead to fairer, quicker, more consistent and better quality asylum decisions across the eu.
in writing. − abstain. this is an alteration to the schengen zone period in which extra border controls can be imposed by member states. although the uk is not in schengen, the better protection of borders would stop criminals and illegal migrants entering the uk. if strict border control was to be re-established, i am pretty sure that the level of transnational crime and illegal immigration would drop enormously. i cannot agree with the rapporteur that migration per se is not a threat to public policy and national security – i believe that we have to be fully aware of who is entering our country and for what purpose.
in writing. − i voted against this report. border controls can be reintroduced already where there is a serious threat to security but the movement of people from third countries should not be regarded as a threat to security. an eu-based mechanism is the way to progress this issue and the compromise achieved on this report is not acceptable.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. free movement is a defining principle of the european union, and the ability to move within the european union without facing border checks at internal borders is one of its most successful achievements. many people use this freedom, and public opinion repeatedly ranks freedom to travel as among the most significant benefits brought about by the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this report introduces comprehensive measures on internal border control.
in writing. − i have abstained on all votes related to the schengen area as my member state is not part of the schengen area, having opted out at its creation. however, i would like to have on record the fact that i do object on principle to the way the eu internal border policy is being manipulated to create obstacles for certain minorities and groups. disallowing the principle of free movement to minorities such as the roma people and those seeking asylum after the arab spring is a reactionary policy fuelled by racism and i condemn this.
in writing. − this report is on the adoption of the regulation to amend the schengen borders code in order to provide common rules on the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders in exceptional circumstances; and of the regulation on the establishment of an evaluation and monitoring mechanism to verify the application of the schengen acquis. i voted against this report because the rapporteur takes the view that this new mechanism, which is supposedly more european, more transparent, more efficient and more rigorous, represents a huge step forward in comparison to the status quo – i do not believe this to be the case.
in writing. − i take the view that this new mechanism – which is more european, more transparent, efficient and rigorous – represents a huge step forward by comparison with the status quo. it strengthens the tools needed to identify and swiftly remedy any shortcomings found in the member states with regard to the implementation and application of the schengen rules, thereby helping to preserve the schengen area as an area without internal borders and protect citizens’ freedom of movement. for all these reasons, and with satisfactory guarantees having been agreed to safeguard parliament’s institutional role, i support the rapporteur’s recommendation that this agreement be approved.
in writing. − i voted in favour as it calls for the strengthening of schengen governance by putting an end to a purely intergovernmental system and creating a more eu-based schengen evaluation mechanism.
mr president, as a former director of a small company, i know how tedious and time-consuming financial reporting can be. small businesses are often hampered by eu legislation, and in particular burdensome eu rules discourage smes from expanding. i am pleasantly surprised therefore to discover that these proposals have for once taken the needs of small businesses into consideration. this report actually reduces administrative burdens by applying a sliding scale depending on the size of the company. i hope that future eu legislation will be as friendly to small businesses, ensuring that smes benefit from lighter rules. i am also pleased the proposals have resisted the temptation to apply a one-size-fits-all approach, in particular to balance sheets. we need a flexible approach to financial reporting and i welcome moves to let british companies continue to use the balance sheet format they use rather than forcing them to use a new layout.
in writing. − this is yet another attempt by the eu to legislate an issue that should remain a uk government competence. the report states that the eu is trying to prevent time-consuming financial reporting requirements for private limited companies and partnerships and aiming to reduce the administrative burden on smes – this is surprising as, to me, most of the problems small companies are currently facing are caused by the unrealistic and unnecessary eu legislation currently imposed on them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings so as not to jeopardise the existing deal on payments to governments. this is important in continuing the fight against tax havens and tax evasion. it is vital for my constituents in wales and for citizens in other nations that we maintain pressure in the struggle against unjust practices that affect us all. austerity measures are hitting eu citizens hard and we cannot allow tax avoidance which costs billions and profits the few.
in writing. − i voted for this report and welcome the commission’s proposal as a major step forward for transparency and accountability.
in writing. − i am proud to support this report on greater financial transparency in the private sector. as labour and s&d we have stood up to attempts to water down these proposals from the member states, demanding exemptions and loopholes which would have defeated the purpose of the rules. the aim is to give communities in resource-rich countries the necessary tools to hold their governments to account for payments they receive from multinational companies. european gas, oil and logging multinationals will have soon to openly state in their accounts the exploitation rights they pay to developing countries’ governments. the new law delivers more transparency than any eu government was prepared to consider. this new law is a now a victory for transparency, for those who invest in these companies and most importantly for the developing world.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this report as it calls for a low materiality threshold which requires all payments above eur 100 000 to be declared and calls for a new anti-evasion clause as well.
in writing. − this report sets the financial reporting requirements for private limited companies and partnerships and aims to reduce the administrative burden for smes. one of the most important aspects of this new law is the requirement for all european oil, mining, gas and logging companies to publish reports on the payments they make to governments for access to natural resources. many developing countries are rich in natural resources and revenue from the extractive industries is worth considerably more than the amount they receive in foreign aid, yet huge numbers of people continue to live in poverty. i therefore supported this report as greater transparency will help to ensure that companies make fairer deals for resource access, and should also help in the fight against corruption by giving citizens the information they need to hold their governments to account if the benefits of natural resources are not seen to be filtering down. as the law will cover around 70% of companies operating in the extractive industry, it is also an important step in setting global standards for transparency.
in writing. − this report demands full transparency on all payments that governments make to issuers who are active in the extractive industries, in primary logging and in the banking, construction and telecommunications sectors. it states that these disclosures should be made on a country-by-country basis and, for those active in the extractive and primary logging industries, on a project-by-project basis. although the report purports to aid transparency and thus investor information, it essentially represents yet further unnecessary regulation on company reporting – particularly in relation to the activities of the ‘extractive industries’, or mining to you and i.
in writing. − this vote is history in the making. 70% of the world's extractive industry will be covered, and the european union will have led the way in setting a new global standard for transparency. the new rules will become a major new weapon in the global fight against corruption, ensuring that citizens of resource-rich countries can hold their governments to account for the exploitation of their natural resources. the transparency obligation will force companies to disclose the payments they make to governments on a country-by-country basis in their financial accounts. this greater transparency in the extractive sector means that it can now be known if companies are paying the right price for the resources they extract and if they are making a contribution to the development of these countries and helping to lift their citizens from poverty. for example, in niger it is estimated that, since 1960, between 14.5 and 21 billion euros of potential revenue have been lost because of unfair deals, and in 2008, exports of oil, gas and minerals from africa were worth roughly nine times the value of international aid to the continent: usd 393 billion as opposed to usd 44 billion. yet many communities in resource-rich countries remain trapped in poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the report touches upon several key issues, such as: quarterly reporting, sanctions, creation of a european website connecting the central storage mechanisms and the creation of a single electronic reporting format.
in writing. − i gave my full support to the accounting and transparency package, which will mean that extractive industries will, from now on, need to adhere to new transparency rules. european oil, mining, gas and logging companies will have to disclose payments to governments for access to natural resources. in order to guarantee full transparency, all payments above eur 100 000 will have to be published and i welcome moves in the report to approve an ‘anti-evasion’ clause to stop companies from splitting payments to avoid having to declare them transparently. the new laws are vital for citizens living in resource-rich africa, who will now be able to call on governments to make sure revenues paid to them are being used for the best purposes and to the benefit of citizens across africa. making payments more transparent will ensure that countries get a fairer deal for their resources and that potential revenue is not lost. up until now, millions of people who live in resource-rich countries have been living in severe poverty. i hope that this legislation will help all citizens to profit from the natural resources in their country and pull them out of poverty.
in writing. − this report sets the transparency requirements for listed companies and aims to reduce the administrative burden for smes. one of the most important aspects of this new law is the requirement for all european oil, mining, gas and logging companies to publish reports on the payments they make to governments for access to natural resources. many developing countries are rich in natural resources and revenue from the extractive industries is worth considerably more than they receive in foreign aid, yet huge numbers of people continue to live in poverty. i therefore supported this report as greater transparency will help to ensure that companies make fairer deals for resource access, and should also help in the fight against corruption by giving citizens the information they need to hold their governments to account if the benefits of natural resources are not seen to be filtering down. as the law will cover around 70% of companies operating in the extractive industry, it is also an important step in setting global standards for transparency.
mr president, ministers currently discussing the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) are finding it difficult to agree on a fairer distribution of farm subsidies. but can farm subsides ever be fair? the cost of the cap to taxpayers now stands at eur 87 billion, eur 52 billion of which is spent directly on subsidies. in my constituency of london, europe’s largest sugar cane refinery has been forced to cut back on production and make redundancies. is this fair when french sugar beet farmers receive up to eur 270 million a year in direct payments? alongside these subsidies, the protectionist cap imposes high tariffs on imports from outside the european union, including sugar cane. this leads to higher prices for the consumer, weakens food security and has a negative impact on production. eu sugar prices are still 85% above the world market price. the cap reform must lead to a deal which is good for consumers as well as farmers, and it must not artificially protect jobs in the farming sector by sacrificing jobs in industry, including in this cane refinery.
mr president, agriculture has always been embedded in britain’s history and culture. indeed shepherd’s bush, wormwood scrubs and lincoln’s inn fields, in my very own london constituency, were once thriving agricultural areas. furthermore, with the profitability of agriculture in the london green belt having increased in recent times, the impact of the cap on britain is of personal interest to me. this report sets the rate to which the single farm payment, post-reform, should be reduced in 2013, with the laudable aim of keeping cap spending within budget. while i recognise the importance of this budgetary discipline, i am strongly against the size threshold recommended by the report, which places the majority of the financial burden on member states with larger farms, such as the uk. the only positive and rational way forward is to remove the threshold in its entirety so that the reduction applies equally to all farmers. if this is not the case, then countries with smaller farms will unjustly escape shouldering any of the burdens and avoid being affected. i therefore, along with many british colleagues, did not vote in favour of a report which places an unjust burden on britain’s efficient agricultural industry in particular.
mr president, the financial settlement for 2013 requires a cut in payments to farmers across the eu. the proposal from the commission to reduce payments to farmers receiving over eur 5 000 is being presented to us on the basis that it is both fair and equitable. that is the language that they use. my question is: why? how is this fairness demonstrated by penalising farmers who receive over eur 5 000? this is not fair; it is discriminatory, not only on an individual basis but also on a national basis. the uk is being discriminated against with this measure, which will only serve, yet again, to raise questions about the whole legitimacy of the common agricultural policy. the funds are there to support food production and increasingly to support the environment. why is food production more important in one country and not another?
in writing. − against. this report shows that eu socialists just want to keep on spending taxpayers’ money on the cap – the cost of the cap to taxpayers currently stands at eur 87 billion, eur 52 billion of which is spent directly on subsidies. in my view, the report simply places an unjust burden on britain’s efficient agricultural industry in particular.
in writing. − i voted to delete the proposal to exempt payments under eur 5 000 from the proposed 4.9% cut. this exemption would penalise two thirds of the farms in wales, as they would not qualify for the exemption and would have to bear the burden of paying for those farms that are exempt. this clause was adopted by parliament, however, so i voted against the report.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal because of the exemption for payments below eur 5 000.
in writing. − against. the proposal outlined in this report aims to strengthen the rules that facilitate, simplify and further develop free movement within the european schengen area. this demonstrates the eu’s commitment to the process of european integration, which i am very strongly against.
in writing. − i supported this proposal and voted for it. it abolishes reporting obligations for third country nationals and is largely technical rather than political. it could go further but i support the moves proposed here.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal, which comes at a very crucial and historic time for the eu. the commission proposal aims to make the schengen borders code a clearer and more comprehensive mechanism.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this report emphasises respect for human rights by border guards and the training of border guards on how to respect human rights.
in writing. − the united kingdom, quite rightly, opts out of most of the schengen agreement which abolishes border controls between participating eu countries and facilitates the free movement of people. the report amends proposals put forward by the commission for some largely technical adjustments to the regulations. however, it demonstrates commitment to the process of european integration to which i have fundamental objections. it also gives further emphasis to ‘fundamental rights’, obligations to refugees, and the principle of ‘non-refoulement.’ while i attach importance to genuine human rights and providing a safe haven to those under personal threat, i believe the first priority is for a state to discriminate in favour of its own citizens and to have the power to implement border control measures that it considers necessary. this is not a power that should be conferred on the european commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the greens/efa group has long been calling for the adoption of a mathematic formula to allocate the seats between member states in an objective, fair, durable and transparent way, based on the principle of degressive proportionality. in wales we currently have four meps, which means we are under-represented. if wales was an independent member state, we would be entitled to nine meps. until that time we support a fairer system of calculation for the member states.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the solution means that 12 member states – austria, belgium, bulgaria, croatia, czech republic, greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, lithuania, portugal and romania – will each lose one seat at the next european elections. this solution should avoid a ‘traumatic reallocation of seats, with heavy losses for medium and small member states and huge increases for big ones’. it is also the ‘least imperfect of the possible solutions’.
in writing. − i voted for this report as i have nothing against its proposal on the composition of the ep.
mr president, the european union needs to reform itself, not just for the sake of british interests, but for the benefit of all member states. in london, the chamber of commerce identified employment law as a key area which should be transferred back to the british government. i voted against this report because, again, it calls for more interference in member states’ employment policies. it calls for more eu money to be spent on schemes to increase youth employment or to roll back the tide of globalism. the best way for the eu to create employment is to cut red tape and unnecessary rules, and make europe competitive again. this report also tries to interfere in social security law with proposals for a minimum unemployment benefit. the eu must not tell member states how to spend their welfare bills. brussels is encouraging benefit tourism when it should be protecting countries’ welfare systems from abuse.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it essentially calls for yet more eu interference in member states’ employment policies. the resolution highlights ‘the need’ to improve the coordination of social and economic policies at eu level – this move, as demonstrated by the failure of previous one-size-fits-all eu ‘remedies’, simply will not work. i believe that the uk should be allowed to maintain complete control over its own employment policy and initiatives.
in writing. − i welcome this report which reiterates the need to improve the coordination of social and economic policies at eu level so as to avoid discrepancies, build synergies between them and allow them to reinforce each other’s objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which highlights the need for economic and social progress, which go hand in hand with one another. i specifically support the suggestion that adequate budgetary resources are needed in order to stimulate social investment. i wholeheartedly agree with the ‘frontloading’ of eur 6 billion allocated to the youth unemployment initiative, and believe that this should be a priority of the mff; by the same token i believe that there should be a minimum share of 25% for the esf from the cohesion policy budget, which will help in the fight against social exclusion and will prevent growing inequality in our society. the report rightly highlights the need for member states to adopt measures to ensure more job creation, as well as promoting social protection and health and safety standards for workers. this report highlights the crucial role eu funds can play in promoting social investment – the egf, the microfinance facility, the esf and the youth employment initiative are all vital tools in promoting social inclusion, combating poverty and providing jobs for eu citizens.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which underlines the fact that the primary role of state aid control is to ensure a level playing field in a competitive and coherent internal market; fully supports the sam overall aim of tailoring state aid rules to the need to promote economic growth in the eu and notes that it is particularly relevant to promote economic growth in the most disadvantaged regions of the eu, keeping distortive effects of aid within the internal market to a minimum.
in writing. − regional state aid rules need to be effective, with subsidies contributing towards creating long-term growth in disadvantaged areas. i voted in favour of this report, which looks at, among other things, the compatibility of the proposed modifications of the regional aid rules with cohesion policy objectives. a simpler and more transparent state aid system, as called for in this report, would lead to ensuring that state aid is concentrated in areas that are most in need of support. this would benefit parts of wales, which need the support of regional state aid to help create jobs and growth in some of the most disadvantaged areas. i fully support the report’s position highlighting that excluding large companies from state aid rules is not justified; large companies often attract smaller companies to invest nearby, thereby generating extra employment.
in writing. − as competition policy is already well developed in the uk, it does not seem necessary to highlight the importance of eu competition policy or the need for its proposed initiatives. this proposal aims to allow companies to pursue success and innovation but actually does otherwise.
in writing. − i voted for this report, which stresses that the ongoing consolidation in the banking sector has actually increased the market share of several major financial institutions, and therefore urges the commission to maintain a close watch on the sector in order to enhance competition in european banking markets.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report and especially the amendments calling on the commission for the continued promotion of fair competition, social inclusion, public services and respect of the eu 2020 targets.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution, which ‘recalls its fundamental position that the strengthened emu should not divide the eu but, on the contrary, establish deeper integration and stronger governance, which should be open to all non-euro member states on a voluntary basis’.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘welcomes the eur 6 billion allocated for the new youth employment initiative and calls for a frontloading in the first few years of the multiannual financial framework to address youth unemployment and implement youth guarantees as a matter of urgency; emphasises that the costs of implementing youth guarantees across the eurozone are estimated at eur 21 billion by the international labour organisation and therefore calls for the allocation to be revised upwards as part of a revision of the multiannual financial framework; welcomes the extension of the eligibility group for the youth guarantee under the age of 30.’
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘strongly reaffirms the importance of the fundamental right of access to information and documents, of transparency and openness of institutions and of their decision-making processes, which are pillars of democracy and can bring citizens closer to the eu’.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would say we need to step back and be a little cautious in our analysis. of course we all condemn the heavy-handed police response to the demonstrations in taksim square. indeed, these actions have already been condemned by president gül and deputy prime minister arinc. what is still not clear is whether the demonstrations are a reliable indication of widespread and simmering popular discontent that will continue to fester. it clearly needs to be addressed. many of us want the best for turkey. it would be a shame if the good legacy of atatürk were to be diluted, in particular his modernisation, tolerance, democratisation and his removal of religious influence from political life while remaining a strong devotee of islam. more recently we have seen adherence to nato and great progress towards western liberal democracy – and of course market capitalism, which has delivered enormous economic progress. i have always said that if we appeared to close the door in turkey’s face, we should not be surprised if she turned another way. we are not yet at that stage. in any case i hope that the great changes in the shape and direction of the european union that will have to take place in the next few years, with an end to ever-closer union and a looser, more flexible european union focused on the single market rather than political integration, will mean that this sort of european union will more easily accommodate a country such as turkey.
mr president, what i see through the clouds of teargas is a democratic revolt that is clumsy, complex, messy, but also moving. in style it reminds me of chicago and paris in 1968. like the follow-through from such spontaneous revolts, in the end, turkish democracy will emerge stronger with political parties that will be less sycophantic towards their leadership, with a turkish parliament which will be more pluralistic and with ideologies, both secular and religious, which will be less preoccupying. turkey has a great capacity to become the world’s first liberal modern muslim european country, and i rejoice at the events that are now in train.
mr president, in my speech i want to address turkish prime minister erdoğan directly. prime minister, yes, we do condemn the violent crackdown on the protestors, and i join the high representative in calling for the police responsible to be brought to justice. but please do not dismiss our criticisms as some form of international conspiracy against you. my group has welcomed progress made on judicial reform and on the kurdish issue, but your response to this crisis shows the need for further reforms of the police, on freedom of expression and of assembly. it is why we regret your cool words about europe last friday and why we argue for the opening of chapters 23 and 24 to enable us to join with you in building democracy and respect for human rights in your country. mr erdoğan, you cannot promote democracy in syria but not do so at home. you cannot extinguish the memory of being made a political prisoner yourself by putting your own political opponents in jail today. you must recognise that if your media is silent, we cannot do the same. prime minister, apologise to the protestors. they are not the ‘deep state’ out to get you. these are young people, trade unionists, environmentalists and civil society groups, who strengthen democracy through their actions. i appeal to you to show statesmanship, not just by meeting them today, but by genuinely conciliating the demands of all who express legitimate opposition in your society. commissioner füle, last friday you spoke for the whole of europe. thank you. today i invite you to answer mr erdoğan’s public claim that you did not raise the protests in your private meeting with him. i was proud to co-author and negotiate the resolution we are debating now. on behalf of the socialist and democrat group, i say that this was a protest that started with tree-huggers but is now one in which, across europe, we should all embrace those who uphold democratic pluralism in the country we love, turkey.
mr president, i speak as a friend of turkey and friends must speak honestly. i was in turkey myself when the protests began, and what an energy, what an inspiration i witnessed in cities and towns across turkey, not only in istanbul: turks unifying against the effects of this government on their modern secular lives. tayyip erdoğan, there is nothing to fear from a vibrant population and a dynamic youth. indeed, they are the ones who make a country and ultimately they are the ones who will continue the democratic bloom of turkey. any flourishing democracy is judged not on how it treats its majority but on how it treats its minorities and deals with dissent. over the past few months the government of erdoğan has ignored the rights of women and minorities, including lgbt people, and the recourse to violence in response to citizens – members of the civil society – joining forces to simply defend their human rights and modern lives is inexplicable and in complete contrast with the democratic progress made by turkey all these years. the prime minister has escalated antagonism rather than diminished it and, as a member of the ad hoc delegation for the observation of trials of journalists in turkey, i note that the media have been cowed. that makes it even more important that we have the social media to report it. the arrogance of the prime minister towards the position of others and the basics of democracy, which include the space to disagree, are in real contrast to the awareness of president abdullah gül. in turkish let me say this: prime minister, halkın sesini dinle! listen to the people! (applause)
mr president, paragraph 12 of the motion for a resolution says that freedom of expression – even if it offends – is at the heart of democracy. i agree absolutely. physical attacks on peaceful demonstrators should certainly bring turkey’s application to the eu to a complete halt. we could also mention the attempted prosecution of mr orhan pamuk for a heretical view of turkish history – but of course, france attempted to enact an almost exact mirror image or converse of that law under which mr pamuk was prosecuted. many other eu countries prosecute and imprison people for heretical, historical or political opinion. the belgian government of mr verhofstadt actually banned a political party – vlaams blok – and germany tried to ban a party with fabricated evidence. turkey certainly deserves censure, but eu member states must put their own houses in order first.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i was initially quite sceptical about the eeas, which had the potential to seize an unacceptable level of power from national governments. however, i have now slightly tempered my views, and under cathy ashton we have seen an institution develop from scratch which has the potential to add value in those consensual areas of foreign affairs, human rights, security and defence policy, where all eu member states speak with one voice and where no conflict occurs with nato. such examples include organising sanctions against iran’s nuclear programme, the excellent work of eunavfor atalanta in dramatically reducing piracy off the somalia coast, the current work of the eu training mission in mali and burma and the recent groundbreaking achievement of the kosovo-serb agreement, for which i offer the vice-president/high representative my sincere congratulations. these successes demonstrate precisely what we want from the eeas, which is an economy-of-scale organisation performing a useful job within clearly defined parameters. therefore, it is regrettable that this report attempts to enlarge the remit of the eeas far beyond those terms, and in practice effects an institutional power grab. the ecr cannot accept a scenario in which eu battle groups are deployed as a rapid-reaction force, not least because it would mainly be british and french troops doing the heavy lifting. the report then adds insult to injury by seeking the end of unanimity on cfsp matters, with the eventual possibility that the same french and british troops could be committed to battle under qmv, without the express consent of their national governments. foreign and security policy is the backbone of national sovereignty and member states have different priorities, budgets and geopolitical strategic concerns. it is unacceptable to force an individual country to make highly costly and often dangerous decisions contrary to its national interests. the ecr group also rejects reducing the input of member states in the council. the rotating presidency on a six-monthly basis is a fundamental element of our institutional framework. any attempts to end its role would simply add ammunition to those voices bewailing – falsely perhaps – the lack of democracy and accountability within the eu structures. lastly, the relex legacy needs revisiting. why is there no delegation, ms ashton, in panama, but a big one in barbados?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the eeas is the eu’s foreign service. an eu foreign service is based on the assumption that there is a communality of interest among the 27 member states. this is a fallacy. in libya, only eight european countries took part, not 27, and one of them was not a member of the eu. the 27 member states are – to coin a phrase – ‘a coalition of the unwilling’, and sometimes less than that. there is also the sheer wasteful cost of the eu’s foreign service. eeas staff are very highly paid. indeed, up to one hundred officials enjoy take-home pay that is more than that of britain’s foreign secretary. the financial climate has the consequence that the uk is closing down embassies and consulates. nonetheless, we are made to contribute – and to contribute very substantially – to the eu’s foreign service in order to advance a foreign policy that is not – i repeat not – ours. all of this – the eeas – is a demonstration yet again that britain’s membership of the eu in actuality diminishes our influence in the world.
madam president, many of my colleagues here today have called for one voice for the european union, indeed one mentioned ambassadors rather than heads of delegation. but surely that needs some type of federalism? the european union does not have a mandate for that. that is why, in my view, the eeas is fundamentally flawed. i am sure it is a big problem for baroness ashton to carry out her duties when she cannot speak for all 27 nations. but i cannot help the feeling that she is part-author of her own problems. of course she was leader of the lords when she pushed through the lisbon treaty, when she argued there was no fundamental change of power. and here she is in fact really wanting more power. so which was it, baroness ashton? you know, you cannot have it both ways. the only way that the eu can actually speak with one voice is if it gives a mandate from the people. one specific question that i would really like you to answer this afternoon: in what capacity, baroness ashton, were you at the champions league final this year?
in writing. − i did not vote to set up the european external action service. i’m glad that i did not, not only because i believe foreign policy to be the exclusive competence of sovereign member states, but also because the eeas has turned out to be inefficient, unproductive and, worst of all, expensive. baroness ashton promised that the eeas would be budget-neutral, yet we have seen the service come cap in hand to this parliament for an increase in its budget at a time when national governments are being forced to cut theirs. the costs come from its top-heavy bureaucracy, where 50 civil servants earn more than the british prime minister, a lavish lifestyle for staff posted overseas with some of the highest accommodation costs of any diplomatic service in the world and extravagant perks including all-expenses-paid ‘respite trips’ to tropical resorts, and unnecessary expenditure on representation and social activities including a bloated communications budget. we need to trim the fat of the european institutions and it strikes me that the eeas is fattier than most. i hope that baroness ashton’s successor will succeed where she failed by offering a budget-neutral service and getting issues such as spending and staffing under control.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i welcome the council annual report this year, the first since the high representative steered the european union to its new strategic framework on human rights. i welcome, too, the work of special representative lambrinidis and repeat in this chamber what i said to him privately, that his significant work in promoting the participation of civil society groups in russia’s human rights dialogue and championing human rights in the transition in egypt are excellent examples that his role can make a difference. i welcome the human rights contact group the eeas has established with this parliament, the in camera debriefings to meps following human rights dialogues, and the promise made to improve the follow-up to our urgency resolutions, all of which enable the european parliament to bring democratic support to europe’s human rights efforts in the world. it is not a criticism of the eeas or indeed the united nations to say that we must question the assumption that, as the world develops, so will respect for human rights. i agree with the conclusion in the annual report that repression against independent civil society organisations and against free journalism and social media have got considerably worse, not better, in the last year. it is a challenge for us all to do better, and i warmly commend many of the ideas in ms schaake’s report for future action. on specific questions, high representative, i would like to ask you whether you would take up parliament’s recommendation that the foreign affairs council makes country-specific conclusions after human rights dialogues, not least to ensure a level of consistency, especially for our strategic partners. i ask the high representative to pay particular attention to human rights impact assessments in relation to trade agreements and investment treaties where perhaps we have most to do, but also most to gain. as the high representative prepares to go to bahrain for the gulf cooperation council ministerial meeting, can i remind her that myself and my colleague ana gomes went into prison to meet political prisoners such as abdulhadi al-khawaja, whose conviction has now been confirmed for merely taking part in anti-government protests, and that he, and two others, are eu citizens? i ask her to do everything possible to secure their release. finally, in relation to the guidelines on freedom of religion and belief, my group believes freedom of religion is a fundamental right and gives our fundamental support to the guidelines. but to ms andrikienė and the epp group, i urge you to support the indivisibility of human rights. this parliament gives unhesitating support to the guidelines on religion and belief, but you must give equal support to the guidelines due to be agreed on the human rights of lgbt people. you should be careful about the denial of the human rights of women through efforts to restrict education for girls, or on issues such as reproductive health. this is why my group has tabled a number of split votes to your report, and is why we could not support it at committee. these guidelines are on religion and belief. do not put rights to religion, or indeed to some religions, above other beliefs. as sigmund freud wrote, ‘just as no one can be forced into belief, so no one can be forced into unbelief’.
mr president, the persecution and oppression of religious minorities in iraq should give us all great cause for concern. the ongoing bloody conflict between the shias and the sunnis continues to attract the world’s attention while the systematic obliteration of many of the ethnic religious groups goes on virtually without being noticed. iraq’s assyrian christian community is one of the oldest in the world, dating back to the first century ad. twenty years ago there were more than one and a half million christians in iraq but saddam hussein implemented a policy of arabisation and forcible relocation of the christian communities in nineveh in northern iraq. today, with continued violent oppression and attacks, there are fewer than 300 000 christians left. hundreds of thousands have fled to the autonomous region of kurdistan. three hundred and thirty thousand fled to syria and have been again displaced by the civil war raging in that country, most of them fleeing to turkey. it is time that we did something about it. my delegation for relations with iraq will hold a special meeting about the persecution of religious minorities next thursday.
mr president, allow me to start by congratulating our colleague, marietje schaake, on her approach to producing this report. in december 2011 the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy actually came to this house to present her strategic review of human rights in the world. clearly, that set a direction which is being followed here. in that debate, i raised the question of a particular geographical area where a multitude of human rights abuses were taking place, and it struck me that it was a case of double standards as the high representative had not once mentioned that area in her address. she accepted this up to a point and said she understood what i was saying and that she would speak to me about it, although she did not want to answer from the floor of the house. i reminded her in february 2012 of that commitment, and some 18 months later i really do believe i could be forgiven for taking the view that kashmir is possibly regarded as too inconvenient an issue. however, the intolerable situation in kashmir will one day catch us off guard, unprepared – and when that time comes, its people will remind us of our double standards and our silence. of course, we currently have ongoing negotiations on the eu-india free trade agreement, and i would like to ask mr lambrinidis what he intends to do in terms of those negotiations with the portfolio that he holds.
mr president, as a member of the delegation for the observation of trials of journalists in turkey, i mentioned earlier the situation of journalists who have been imprisoned as terrorists in turkey simply for carrying out their work as independently as possible. furthermore, as protests go on, four tv channels were fined today for promoting violence in gezi park solely by covering the events. in several european countries, we have seen the adoption or attempted adoption of laws that limit freedom of expression, including in the press, on issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity. these laws label any discussions as ‘gay propaganda’. fines and imprisonment are provided for against individuals or organisations that support the fundamental rights of lgbt people. yesterday in russia, the duma adopted a homophobic federal law banning the so-called propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations. this is part of a wider systematic crackdown on russian lgbt people and civil society movements in general, and hate speech from putin and others has resulted in the barbaric killing of gay men. shame on you, putin! shame on you! in africa, state homophobia increases. we are also seeing laws under consideration in moldova, ukraine, and even in lithuania and hungary. this is unacceptable and uncivilised. so i ask the commission, member states and the external action service to systematically express the eu’s strongest opposition to laws that restrict freedom of expression, which, for instance, target sexual orientation and gender identity. a word on religion and belief: religion and belief are intensely personal and private. they should never be imposed upon others, especially where such imposition diminishes the human rights and civil liberties of others. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i have just attended a party to say goodbye to us ambassador to the eu, william kennard, and i am conscious of the fact that there are no stronger atlanticists in this parliament than my group, the ecr. i join colleagues from across this chamber in welcoming a broader transatlantic partnership, specifically through the institution of a ttip agreement between the eu and the usa. we can be in no doubt that such a transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement is a few years away, and it will be subject, of course, to the most vigorous and intricate negotiations. we must support it and campaign for it tirelessly and wholeheartedly. indeed, the next few years present a truly unique opportunity to develop a bloc of liberal, free-market democracies which can exchange goods and services without encumbrances and promote jobs and economic growth. to achieve this, we must also seek to link any agreement with nafta. for instance, canada and mexico are at the moment in the middle of negotiating eu ftas – mexico has already got one. indeed, there is a transatlantic partnership currently under negotiation, a move which would spread to the pacific, the tpp – stretching free trade from europe, through north america, to australia and new zealand, to chile and malaysia. we must, however, be vigilant that narrow protectionist concerns do not disrupt this project. in particular, on the audiovisual issue, france cannot hope to turn back the cultural tide. in any case, there is no evidence that france’s rightly celebrated film and media industry would be imperilled by a free trade agreement with the americans. in a world in which china, with its uncertain intentions, becomes ever more powerful, we need a strong economic alliance of liberal democracies across the atlantic. so i join all colleagues tonight in congratulating mr millán mon on his excellent report.
rapporteur. − mr president, this is a stepping-stone epa, and i emphasise that at the beginning; it is not the end product. we as a parliament, along with the commission, have set three criteria on what we expect out of epas. we want them, firstly, to be wto-compatible, secondly, to be development-friendly and, thirdly, to encourage regional integration. in isolation, this stepping-stone epa perhaps gets one-and-a-half out of three in terms of meeting these three objectives. cameroon does become wto-compatible by signing up for the stepping-stone epa, and that is vital for them in terms of continued market access after the amendment to the market access regulation, because their preferences will end on 1 october 2014 if no action is taken. i welcome the fact that in relation to the first objective, we have ensured that cameroon becomes wto-compatible. on the second objective, cameroon is not a least developed country (ldc), but 40% of its population remain below the poverty line and the country remains food-insecure. this stepping-stone epa does not do a lot to address that concern, but it reinforces our cotonou attempts to improve good governance in the country, to improve the rule of law and, generally, to enhance development. so in terms of development, i give it half a mark. but where this epa fails is in that parliament has consistently supported a notion that epas should encourage regional integration. clearly the stepping-stone epa does not do this because cameroon is the only country in the region signing up for it, with seven countries deciding to stay out. this is not – and i want to emphasise this – cameroon’s fault, because the other central african countries are ldcs, and see little incentive at the moment for signing up for an epa. they already benefit from duty-free and quota-free access to the european union market and do not see the epa delivering any additional benefits. in my view that is a misjudgement. it is a misjudgement on both sides though. we in the european union have not as yet sold the potential benefits of epas properly. we have not, for example, explained the benefit of common rules of origin across the region in terms of regional integration, nor have we listed any additional benefits beyond liberalisation. we have not really pushed the aid for trade agenda and we have not talked about how epas could be used to develop some of the existing cotonou policies. so there is much work to be done if we wish to get the other seven regions to sign up; but because it is not a cameroon problem, i am recommending to the house today that we accept this stepping-stone epa. i want to raise one additional issue, which strictly speaking is not an epa issue, but is a cotonou issue. in the context of events in cameroon i cannot ignore this, and that is the position of lgbt people in cameroon. i am very worried that the recent discriminatory legislation that cameroon has passed, particularly article 347 of their penal code – which punishes sexual relations between persons of the same sex with a sentence of up to five years in prison – is one of the harshest regimes now in africa in relation to persecution of lgbt people. there are numerous ngos which have raised this issue with me. i want to emphasise that i do not think it is a reason for rejecting the epa, but it is a reason for us to look at our relationship with cameroon under the cotonou provisions, which concern human rights and good governance, among other issues. so we should examine that aspect of our relationship with cameroon, but at the moment i am recommending that the house approves this interim stepping-stone epa.
madam president, i want to congratulate david martin for his work on this file. however, i do agree with others who have criticised the agreement for potentially undermining regional integration. this agreement is concluded with one single country in central africa, and the initial goal of epas is to favour regional integration, so i fail to see how such a bilateral agreement will promote so much integration. i also deeply regret the absence of a clause on human rights, despite repeated calls from this house to include such clauses in all international agreements. cameroon remains the country which prosecutes lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people the most under their penal code. this witch-hunt must end. despite these strong reserves, i will support the reasoned recommendation from the rapporteur to give consent, as i recognise that it is an interim agreement and that it is necessary to continue sustained negotiations. but i insist that such an interim agreement should be a stepping stone towards reinforced negotiations which will engage all countries of central africa and also cover important issues such as human rights and development, and not only trade.
rapporteur. − madam president, firstly, let me say to the colleagues who have expressed reservations about this epa that, if it were not a stepping-stone epa, i would share their reservations. the aim is to move from the stepping-stone to a full epa, so i do not believe it breaks regional integration at the moment. we had the cameroon ambassador in the trade committee, who emphasised the importance of this epa for his country, and i have had contact with the cameroon trade minister, who has also emphasised the importance of this epa for his country. you cannot, in my opinion, punish cameroon for being the only non-ldc in a regional grouping where every other country is an ldc. that is, of course, what has pushed them to sign up now and the others to hold out for more. there are problems with regional integration. i was pleased to hear the commissioner say that in the eleventh edf we are putting more money into encouraging regional integration. we do have some responsibility for that, because the reason the african countries prefer to trade with europe rather than with each other is because of historical colonial ties. it is a system that we put in place 20, 30, 40 or 50 years ago and that we are now reaping the damage from. so we have a responsibility to try to encourage inter-regional trade within the african countries. what i would say to the commission, though, is that while i am very strongly supporting this, and while i hope we can move forward in terms of regional epas, i still believe that the way we are presenting epas, and some of the offers on the table we make in terms of epas, are not sufficient. we still have this holy grail of 80% liberalisation. nowhere does the wto say that we have to liberalise 80% of our trade. it has to be a substantial amount under the wto and i know of countries which, if they could only get an agreement on 75%, which is not that much different, would sign up for an epa. but we seem to be stuck on this idea that it has to be a fixed 80%, so we need to show a bit more flexibility in our negotiations and we must, as i said at the beginning, also emphasise more the accompanying measures. so it is not just about liberalisation, but it is a new development package. i recommend to the house that we support this interim epa today.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate filip kaczmarek for his excellent work and the momentum that he has generated for this report. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his leadership on this issue and for its ambitious communication. the hard work will now be with the council, and it is important that we have a single voice from the eu when it comes to issues such as the mdgs, not 27 separate voices plus one – a single voice from the eu institutions. many of the stories coming out of africa, asia and latin america today are of progress and success. the mdgs are a part of this success, and that needs to be stressed, repeated and communicated. the mdg framework was adopted in a very different time, in the late 1990s when the world was very different. most people lived in rural areas and in poor countries. climate change was a far-off concern and far from being a mainstream political issue as it is today. there was more optimism about economic growth and what it could deliver. this is not the case anymore. we need to learn the right lessons from the past and have the right analysis for the future if we want the mdgs to be both politically acceptable and decisive in reducing poverty. there must be shared responsibility and universal application of the future framework. it should apply to all countries. we need to make sure that we, in our developed countries, meet the targets and goals, for example, on transparency, good governance, and fighting corruption and the tax evasion that we see being practised by multinationals. there should be a limited number of goals with different targets for each country. health mdgs are lagging behind but they must remain a priority, and we must include sexual and reproductive health rights, which are a distinct component of health, and indeed at its root. i am sorry that sections of the ppe and the ecr groups still fail to see this and that they will vote against the whole report should the text include these rights, thus dismissing the great work done by filip kaczmarek. i know the commission is under attack for its work on this issue, but it has the support of the european parliament and eu citizens. finally, we need fully to integrate the equality dimension – equality between countries and also within countries. let us forget the tyranny of averages that is undermining the success of the mdgs. this means equality of revenue, including between women and men, and also equality of access to health, education, social protection and other social services, and human rights equality – including equality irrespective of sexual orientation, and fully respecting women’s rights.
blue-card answer. – i hope i understood the question correctly. through education on rights, about what people can do with their bodies, what they can achieve working on the land, information about empowerment of the individual. this comes from working with ngos, but it comes a lot from working on project-based issues. i have seen this myself in southern africa where we, the eu, bring added value into small communities that then ripple out into much larger urban communities. the challenge is here, but central to me on this issue is the recognition that everyone has the right to use their own body and to have access to goods, health and services. that is the way that the individual can reach and achieve their unique potential. education and information: then you know what rights you have and what access you have to enable those rights. i hope i have answered your question.
blue-card question. – i was not going to get involved in this but since mr cashman mentioned this here i want to teasingly ask mr cashman a philosophical question: when did mr cashman choose to be mr cashman? or when did mr cashman’s parents choose to have mr cashman as a child? if mr cashman can tell me that he chose to be born to his parents and his parents can tell me that they chose him as their child, then i will argue about the right to choose. but if there is no choice as to who and where we are born, to whom and when, how can we then say that we have a right to choose to abort a child?
blue-card answer. – madam president, i will take longer than one minute because there are two questions. first of all, mr mitchell has misled this house. he says that he has never heard me condemn gendercide. i ask you to go back to the debate in the last committee where it will be minuted that i condemn gendercide. i condemn abortion on the basis of sex selection. no-one should ever terminate a child because of its gender. but those on the other side of the house should not use gendercide as an excuse to deny women the right as to what they should do with their bodies, the right to sex education, the right to contraception and, where necessary, a right to choose an abortion. yes, you have beliefs – and i respect your beliefs, religious or otherwise – but you never have the right to impose them on another individual when by imposing them you diminish their human rights and civil liberties by comparison to your own. i need no lectures, and let my record be repeated to you, mr mitchell, when you go back to the committee and look at the debate that we had on gendercide. we were unanimous. you have misled this house.
madam president, i did ask mr cashman a philosophical question and perhaps you would give him time to answer it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the existing mdg framework has helped to galvanise development efforts and guide global and national priorities. not all the targets have been met, but we have heard some significant targets have been met and that ngos have found it very useful to have mdgs so that they can encourage their member state governments to achieve better results. the current mdgs do not, however, sufficiently address the root causes of poverty, such as inequalities within and among countries, as well as issues such as social exclusion, biodiversity and governance. we need a new approach post-2015 that embraces global governance, with a strong focus on policy coherence for development and the provision of global public goods. by that i mean understanding that global public goods will include international trade, environmental and financial architecture within the context of global governance. it is also important to have a human rights approach, and i am in agreement with most of what the report says. we need a more holistic approach reflecting the outcome of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development, and we need to develop the concept of development effectiveness: a combination of development aid, assistance for the provision of global goods and adaptation of governance structure. it is important that the global goals and targets are tailored and adapted to national and regional contexts. in conclusion, is important to say, with regard to recipient countries, that i am very pleased to see the commissioner is saying we should stick to the 7% gni target for overseas development aid.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, while congratulating the commissioner, particularly, on the successes of the millennium development goals, which was a grand attempt in 2000 by kofi annan and others to create a platform for poverty elimination, we must also not pat ourselves too hard on the back because we will probably fall flat on our faces. one of the reasons why we have succeeded in achieving the mdgs is because of growth – growth in the developing countries themselves. these, on average, have grown by 6 % a year, with every 1 % increase in gdp per head equivalent to a 1.7 % reduction in poverty. if we can encourage growth and wealth creation in our developing country partners, we will automatically eliminate poverty. it is a lack of growth that creates poverty. do we have to look further than the european union itself? a lack of growth has created 27 million people without work. so if we can change the way we approach our development poverty elimination programmes to create the conditions for economic growth in our developing country partners, we will succeed in creating that unique combination of self-sustainable growth and poverty elimination. it is a very important aspect of the future that we have to look to. china, for example, has removed almost 630 million people from the poverty trap. two-thirds of the world’s poverty reduction has happened in middle income developing countries. they will now have a more structured way to look at where these people are, how we can reach out to them and how we can encourage growth in those sectors.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the goals of the millennium development project are of course praiseworthy and few would disagree with them. however i fear that too often, in this house, we have an excited focus on new action and perhaps pay too little attention to the results of what we have already attempted to do. it has well been said that we do not need to teach the grass to grow, we just need to get the rocks off the lawn. too often, the rocks on the lawn are rocks that we have put there. in that context i would like to point to the vital role of energy and electricity in taking people out of absolute poverty. poor people need electric light so that children can study in the evening; poor people need refrigeration so that they can store food and store vaccines; poor people need electric cooking so they can be freed of the scourge of wood smoke in poor homes. we have heard commissioner peibalgs speak of sustainability, but unfortunately when we use the word ‘sustainable’ in this house we actually mean ‘unsustainable’. any efforts we make to deny access to cheap electricity fuelled by fossil fuels in the third world will do huge damage. i am tired to death of hearing the proposition that poor people are most vulnerable to climate change: nonsense! poor people are most vulnerable to our policies designed to mitigate climate change; they will suffer if we do not make sure they have cheap and plentiful energy.
rapporteur. − madam president, it is always good to see you chairing debates such as these. we in this house are asked to give our consent, or not, to this text as negotiated by the commission and ratified by the council. i note, however, with some concern that not all eu member states, nor acp states, have a national obligation to ratify it. i would appreciate an update from the commission on this. there are many good points in the agreement, including some strong wording on achieving the mdgs, guaranteeing food security, policy coherence for development, sustainable fisheries, recognising the african union and regional integration, as well as the role of local authorities and civil society, but we do have some concerns. these concerns were already addressed in ms joly’s report in december 2009. most of them have not been addressed in the final text, such as the issue of the readmission of illegal immigrants, promotion of fair trade, the fight against tax evasion and tax-related aspects of development. the sticking point for me and the house – as the parliament has expressed in several resolutions already – concerns the negotiations on reinforcing the principle of non-negotiable human rights clauses under article 8.4. it has not been reworded in accordance with parliament’s wishes, and only includes the wording of article 2 of the un declaration on human rights. there was an explicit resentment from the acp side as regards the inclusion of sexual orientation. that is worrying, because homosexuality is still a crime in 38 acp countries. look at what is happening in cameroon, in uganda and, last week, in nigeria. the lives of women, men, girls and boys are being taken away simply because of who they are. we would not accept this in the eu, and we should not accept it elsewhere – certainly not within our agreements. remaining silent is a tacit acceptance of such oppressive legislation and regimes. we do not believe that political dialogue can be carried out in the future on this issue if it is not already addressed, specifically in the cotonou agreement. the commission was aware of these concerns and, although it did not press for the issue during negotiations, i do recognise that it did try to explicitly include it in a declaration, and that it has been proactive in raising the issue with acp colleagues. we organised a conference jointly with commissioner piebalgs – whose commitment to human rights i unreservedly praise – and with navi pillay, the un high commissioner for human rights, but it was boycotted at the last minute by the acp side. i have also arranged round tables with acp ambassadors, but i have had no success in putting the issue of sexual orientation on any common mutual agenda. in conclusion, on the basis of these points i find it very difficult to recommend that parliament consent to the agreement. we call tirelessly for international agreements concluded by the eu to contain binding – and non-negotiable – human rights clauses. giving consent to this particular agreement could give the impression that we are backing away on this. however, the idea behind giving such consent is to give two years to the commission to see how far it can go in making progress on this important issue of non-discrimination. therefore i have suggested the following text: ‘consents to the conclusion of the agreement; expresses its strong reservations about parts of the agreement which do not reflect the position of the european parliament and values of the union; urges all parties to revise the unsatisfactory clauses accordingly during a third revision of the agreement, including the explicit introduction of non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation within article 8.4. ’ i remind you that there are no financial implications, and a revision is planned for 2015. i look forward to the debate and thank the commissioner unreservedly for his commitment and determination to uphold human rights and european values, especially when those values do not seem to grasped so willingly by our acp partners.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i am pleased to see that this report, which has been done so well by my colleague and friend, michael cashman, addresses several serious deficiencies in the cotonou agreement. it does so notably by addressing the issue of mdgs, hence correcting what was a lacuna. however, we have to look at what is happening in sub-saharan africa. some sub-saharan african countries have made extraordinary progress and others have not. the ones that have done so, like burkina faso, have made their budget focuses health, agriculture and education, and are making considerable progress faster. by 2015, half the people living in poverty will be concentrated in fragile states. of the 47 fragile states, 28 are in africa – and i have seen very little poverty reduction there. we will need to refocus development efforts to meet this growing challenge. today, aid for trade comprises almost a third of oda, yet fragile states suffer from chronic trade deficits and are increasingly locked out of international trade. with this in mind, it is unacceptable that distribution does not address adequately the importance of trade and investment for development. we have see emerging economic powerhouses like brazil and south africa dismantling trade barriers and reaping the rewards. undeniably, trade is a driver of growth and requires the right conditions in which to flourish; this is an issue that is again disturbingly absent from our revision. so, may i ask the commissioner to look at distribution again, but with a trade focus, because that is how to get people out of poverty.
rapporteur. − madam president, i want to thank all those colleagues who took part for a very interesting debate and for their support. it is worthwhile remembering that the importance we attach to non-discrimination on all grounds is sadly not reflected when the acp debates these issues in the joint parliamentary assembly. often they react as one against these issues, so we do have a huge battle ahead of us to win hearts and minds. however, commissioner, you are right: that is exactly what we should do. i welcome the input from ms striffler in relation to the importance of regional integration and reinforcing the concept of human rights. we also need to look at where oppression comes from, and in a way mr goerens was absolutely right: the oppression that we see against minorities in africa, the caribbean and the pacific is a direct result of colonialism. we introduced these laws and, as i have said to the acp ambassadors, i would like to be allowed to go back and take these terrible colonial laws away. as mr deva said, we also need to look at trade as a driver for reducing poverty. mr paška mentioned the whole issue of transparency in financial transactions. mr kaczmarek underlined the universality of the principle of human rights: we did not invent it but we are reinforcing it. mr neuser spoke about possibilities for cooperation and about how we have seen climate change and global warming gradually climbing up the political agenda. ms gabriel, thank you again for your support and for highlighting the multi-dimensional approach and the role of epas in regional integration and how we need to take account of this in the revision for 2020. my dear colleague mr ertug talked of sustainable development and poverty reduction and of the importance of addressing tax havens. let us look at what we need to do in our own countries about things that are preventing sustainable development and poverty reduction, and arguably too about openness and transparency in tax matters. all this is crucial. i thank everyone for their participation. and, commissioner, once again, i thank you for the positive way that you engage with us in this house and in the committee on development.
mr president, there are many things which could be done by member states in the eu to combat youth unemployment. some of these things have been identified in the opinion by the committee on regional development on the implementation of the eu youth strategy, which i authored. the most important thing is the need for economic policies that counter the trend of austerity. it is a contradiction for the eu to implement policies that contract economies, leading to job losses on a large scale, while at the same time attempting to create jobs for young people. in order to create youth employment, we need conditions conducive to greater overall employment. this means investing in our economies. as it stands, funding allocated to youth employment initiatives is below what is required to address youth unemployment and to reverse its effects. the ilo states that it should be eur 21 billion, so eur 6 billion will not be sufficient. for these reasons i voted against the motion for a resolution.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on youth unemployment. this is because i thought we needed a strong signal to reiterate the european union’s determination to tackle the disastrous problem of youth unemployment across europe. of course this is a highly regional affair and the problem is far worse in some of the member states than it is in others. i do, however, regret that we retained the first part of paragraph 7, which asked the commission to define a common level of unemployment allowance in the eu, something that i think is completely inadvisable. i think unemployment allowances must be determined by national authorities. it is also completely irrelevant to the rest of this report. i voted in favour of the report as a whole because i think we have to make a strong statement, and i think a strong statement has been made.
in writing. − i drafted this report and recommended that the european parliment gives consent to the interim epa with central africa. epas are development and trade agreements which give acp countries stable and long-term unlimited access to the eu market to help them trade their way out of poverty and into the global market. it is regrettable that cameroon is so far the only country in the central africa region to sign this agreement, but i hope others will join so the epa can be a vehicle for further regional integration and development. with a full agreement in the region the framework for human rights, good governance and the rule of law dialogue can be put in place to address issues such as the discriminatory legislation against lgbt people which i urge cameroon to repeal.
in writing. − i voted for, as it calls and encourages other central african countries to sign the interim epa with the ec which i believe to be important for further cooperation between the eu and central african countries.
mr president, africa’s tragedy, and that of the acp region more widely, is very easily summarised. there is no link between taxation, representation and expenditure. governments around the region have acquired a revenue stream that is independent of their domestic economies. we, the donor countries – the eu specifically through this agreement and others – are exacerbating rather than addressing that problem. what we should be doing is encouraging a system of free contract and property rights, arbitrated by an independent magistracy. that is the basis of economic development in every age, in every continent and archipelago. all human progress, as the great victorian sociologist henry maine put it, is a move from status to contract. but we are halting that process and keeping in place the same old authoritarian regimes, who are there, month after month, in the acp meetings while we come and go. they are the ones who have played the system and we are the ones who are paying.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which amends the cotonou agreement. there have been a few difficulties in obtaining agreements with the acp countries but several important compromises have been agreed on such as continuing a dialogue to further strengthening cooperation in the areas of development, legal migration, and illegal immigration including smuggling, trafficking of human beings and border management, as well as return and readmission of illegal migrants. i regularly receive correspondence from my constituents in wales who are concerned about development in the acp countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to give consent to the renewal of the cotonou agreement, which is the political and development framework between the eu and african, caribbean and pacific countries. this agreement will be renewed for 5 years, and i urge the commission to address issues such as anti-homosexuality laws in some acp countries. there are existing clauses in the cotonou agreement on human rights and new clauses should be introduced on non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it reflects well the position of the ep on the second revision.
mr president, as mr kelly just said, the press has to be independent as well as free. we are very good here at pointing the finger at others, we are not always so good at looking a little bit closer to home. the european parliament spends hundreds of thousands of euros every year on buying itself good press coverage by bringing journalists, particularly local reporters, over to brussels and strasbourg and showing them a good time, or indeed by compromising accredited correspondents in the eu by making them advisers on media issues or editors of eu-funded newsletters or websites. we have created such an atmosphere of dependency and civility among some of the press corps here that simply to have a normal functioning critical press horrifies people, as mr brok is now, in his usual bellicose and oafish way, demonstrating by shouting at me. simply to have a balanced press as we have in the united kingdom, where you have papers on both sides and media channels on both sides, some pro-eu, others anti-eu, always produces the brok kind of bellowing and eye-rolling, because people are so accustomed to lack of criticism. that is not healthy for anybody.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the freedom of the press and media. it strongly condemns the current deterioration in media freedoms worldwide and the heightened attempts of some governments to restrict access to free media and freedom of expression. several of my group's amendments were adopted, including reference to legislation on the repression of media freedom, calling on the eu to monitor media freedom, and develop an early-alert system for when repressive actions are taken. a free press and freedom of speech is the cornerstone of democracy, and fighting censorship and manipulation of the media in wales, in the eu, and worldwide, is very important.
in writing. − i supported this report which emphaises the importance of freedom of the press worldwide. a free and independent press is vital to a thriving democracy and i particularly support the recognition in this report to extend this to ditital and online media.
in writing. − i voted for this report as i believe the freedom of expression, be it in the media or oral speech, is a fundamental right that everyone should have.
in writing. − this legislation makes it easier for open, public-sector information to be maintained and re-used. information such as transport planning, crime maps and voting records of parliamentarians can be valuable tools for future planning and ditigal services and i supported this legislation which will lead to more transparency and efficiency.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the new directive will oblige member states to disclose much more public information and will make sure that the generally available documents can be re-used, taking into account restrictions on intellectual property rights and on the protection of privacy and personal data.
mr president, there is a flight of financial services from the european union to non-eu competitors – to switzerland, to shanghai, to singapore and to new york. we are driving business away from the continent with unnecessarily disproportionate and burdensome regulation which, even on the commission’s own analysis, is deleterious to growth and gdp output in the european union. we are doing so because we have elevated our desire to hit somebody – our desire to articulate the general anger at the banks that followed the financial crash – over the well-being of our citizens. no-one benefits from a reduction in this one sector where up until till now we tended to have a lead. a bank cannot pay a tax any more than your television set pays the licence fee. all taxes fall on individuals. be it the financial transaction tax or the rules on bonuses, all of these things will end up diminishing growth, and that will be paid for by citizens, both as consumers and as taxpayers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which calls on the council and commission to deliver the remaining pieces of financial reform before the end of the legislature. it also calls on the commission to undertake a study on the effectiveness of the legislation that has been adopted since the beginning of the financial crisis. finally, it calls on the eu institutions to establish the proposed framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. this is essential for limiting future exposure of welsh taxpayers to bank failures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution to encourage the commission to come forward as quickly as possible with the anticipated legislation on financial services so it can be implemented before 2014. i also call on the council to deal with existing financial services and banking supervision regulations to ensure these important banking reforms are implemented as soon as possible.
mr president, turkey needs its friends right now. no-one on either side of this debate should be taking any pleasure in the events going on in so many turkish cities. i think we can all see in hindsight that there has been bad behaviour on both sides. everyone now accepts that the initial police reaction was excessive. the government has apologised for it. equally, among the good and honourable protestors are a number of people who have been destroying property and have been advancing an agenda which has nothing to do with the protest. if the european union is to play any positive role in the events now shaking that old ally of ours, we should be irenic, trying to spread peace, tranquillity and dialogue. i am afraid that a number of the speeches we have had, just now and in yesterday’s debate, are doing the opposite. they are inflaming passions and seeking to exacerbate an already difficult situation. this is not an arab spring. this is not an uprising. it is offensive to liken this government in turkey, which is without question democratic, to neighbouring autocracies. there will be free and fair elections in ten months’ time. that makes violent protest unjustifiable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to express the concerns of my constituents in wales at the worsening of the situation. the was the turkish authorities have acted is completely unacceptable and has resulted in the deaths of several citizens and many others have been injured. the report calls on the turkish authorities to offer compensation to the victims and to bring those who have who have been using excessive force and violence to justice. i visited turkey last year to meet politicians to discuss the human rights situation, particularly in relation to the kurdish people. i will continue to work with campaigners in wales for the respect of human rights in turkey.
in writing. − i supported this resolution which expresses the european parliament's condolences to the families of the protesters and police who have lost their lives in the protests recently. i condemn the heavy-handed tactics used by the turkish police and encourage the turkish government to respect the rights of the protesters and find a peaceful solution immediately.
in writing. − this resolution highlights concern at the situation in turkey, particularly in relation to excessive violence being used by the turkish police against protestors in istanbul. i share the view of my political group, which underlines its shock at the use of violent tactics by the police, such as tear gas being fired directly at protestors and causing unnecessary injuries to people taking part in the protest. furthermore, it appears that some protestors have been denied medical help, which is clearly an unacceptable situation. i support calls by the s&d group to bring people responsible for the deaths of protestors and a policeman to justice and i echo concerns about the deterioration of press freedom in turkey, such as censorship, which appears to be a growing issue in the turkish media. i sincerely hope that action is taken by the council and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to address the escalation of violence seen in recent weeks.
mr president, the largest portion of the increment in the brussels budget is this extension of the european external action service; but that is plainly not enough for colleagues in this house. we have just heard mr posselt say that there should not be national ambassadors from the 27 member states, there should only be one, and we should have one eu representative. well, he will no doubt be very happy by what is happening already. i was recently in my native lima. the british embassy there had a total of 15 staff, including the native people, the driver and the receptionist and so on. the eu embassy there had 55 diplomatic personnel. we are creating hundreds of people, all on salaries higher than our national prime ministers, all over the world. it has become almost an end in itself. i noticed an extraordinary statistic the other day: when lord salisbury was foreign secretary of the united kingdom, arguably at the height of our imperial power, we had a total of 52 diplomatic staff on the payroll. just run that figure past what is happening in the eu and you will see how far we have drifted from principles of fiscal sense and prudence.
in writing. − i welcome this review of the eeas three years after its creation. i agree that the service could coordinate better and show greater political leadership with simplified structures. i welcome the calls for greater political accountability to the parliament and for work to continue to minimise duplication with the work of the commission and council. a strong eeas is vital for the eu's global strength.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it calls for the high representative/vice-president to have political deputies who are answerable to the european parliament and i fully support this idea.
mr president, recently in brussels i listened to the harrowing story of mr adamu abila, a victim of devastating jihadi violence against christians in nigeria. distressingly, mr abila is by no means alone. his story is a mere microcosm of the struggles felt by religious groups all over the world. i am therefore very supportive of the eeas draft guidelines on the promotion and protection of peaceable practice of religious belief and i am extremely heartened to read of the positive responses of the european union member states so far. it is absolutely paramount that we support the proactive nature of these guidelines in assisting european union delegations worldwide to recognise violations of freedom and ensure a speedy and effective response as soon as discrimination on a religious basis is identified. with all the world’s major faiths residing side by side in my london constituency, i am proud to represent such a vibrant patchwork of religions and cultures and i am very supportive of any guidelines that encourage tolerance and facilitate the fight against religious persecution.
in writing. − i voted against this report. i agreed with the report in spirit, but some of the amendments adopted on "morally sensitive matters" meant i could not give my support in the final vote. equality, freedom, and fairness are respected in wales and i do not believe that we should support language that could be used to discriminate against groups in society.
in writing. − i am opposed to amendment 57 in this report and the attempt to curtail the reproductive health rights of women, who in the situations covered by this report, would be in vulnerable situations.
in writing. − i abstained on this report. none of the vital amendments tabled by my group were adopted, including the removal of us nuclear weapons from europe. as an mep representing nuclear-free wales i could not agree with the final report.
in writing. − i welcome this report which sets out the important issues in the eu - transatlantic relationship, covering the united states, canada and latin america. political dialogue with the atlantic basin region is important to tackle cross-border issues such as human trafficking, the illegal drugs trade and environmental protection. the eu has several ongoing trade negotiations with countries and regions in the atlantic basin and a reinvigorated transatlantic partnership will provider a wider forum to tackle sensitive political issues.
in writing. − i support the call for broader transatlantic cooperation and believe that the political and economic relationship between the eu and the us is invaluable. furthermore, i welcome a transatlantic partnership which involves latin america, brazil, mexico and canada, which will help to respond to competitive challenges from other countries. the report also outlines that atlantic countries need to be involved in the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and i agree that action needs to be taken in this area. the eu should also work together with its transatlantic partners in relation to current conflicts, promoting peace and democracy across the globe and in particular, to work together to strengthen work in the field of international development and to achieve the mdgs by 2015.
mr president, i very much welcome this resolution, particularly insofar as it complements my own report on human rights in the sahel region, which is coming out later this year. mali is a country which has suffered the gravest of disasters since the tuareg rebellion which began last year, and it now needs a coordinated nation-building approach from a foreign affairs, security – particularly following the french military intervention – and human rights perspective in order to rebuild its institutions and establish trust between government and citizens. in the short term, this will require the atrocities perpetrated by all the belligerent groups, including at times government forces, to be swiftly punished, while the work goes on to safely repatriate or resettle mali’s hundreds of thousands of refugees and idps and secure their towns and villages from any further violence or extrajudicial retribution. none of us should doubt the difficulty of this task, but with a combination of material and political assistance to our partners in bamako and across the region, we must hope that mali, once a peaceful country, can once again become prosperous economically, enjoy free and fair elections and become a democratic society for all its communities.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution calling for eu leadership in assisting mali, particularly for a swift implementation of the roadmap to consolidate democracy and the rule of law.
mr president, shortly it will be twelve years since the us-led invasion of afghanistan, and with the 2014 withdrawal deadline looming for isaf forces it is paramount that progress does not unravel as western troops leave the country. it is essential that withdrawal is measured and sensitive to regional developments, and increasingly vigilant as the afghan army and police begin to take full responsibility again for national security. the karzai administration’s handling of the transition process must also be closely monitored and the 2014 presidential elections must be fair, free and transparent. while there continues to be overwhelming support in my country for our troops, the war itself has become increasingly costly in terms of resources and casualties and therefore very unpopular. we must therefore strive for visible improvements to afghanistan’s political processes and infrastructures for the ongoing battle against widespread corruption within the judiciary, government and military. this must not end when our troops leave. 2014 will see afghanistan navigating dangerous times, so we need to engage positively to cement the vast progress made in areas such as women’s rights and offer our full support for a peaceful, stable and prosperous future in afghanistan.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which highlights concerns about the on-going violence in afghanistan. the report urges the afghan government to prepare to take over the full responsibility for its security following the withdrawal of international forces. having taken part in many demonstrations with them in opposition to the invasion of afghanistan, i know that my constituents in wales have followed the situation closely and want to ensure that the eu does all within its power to support the afghans to create a better future.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which reaffirms the european parliament's support for eu assistance in reinforcing the rule of law and democracy in afghanistan and encouraging the afghan government to prepare fully for the withdrawal of international troops.
in writing. − sinn féin believes that the option of a termination should be available where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of a pregnant woman, including where she is suicidal, that would only be averted by an abortion and in the case of rape or incest. that where terminations do take place in the circumstances outlined they should of course, be ‘safe’ and subject to full regulation and inspection requirements as advocated by professional bodies. we opposed and voted against the extension of the 1967 act to the north of ireland when it was proposed in the assembly. we support the introduction of legislation in the 26 counties in line with the x case and we have called for the immediate introduction of guidance for medical professionals in the six counties. reproductive rights can refer to a range of services covering maternal, post-natal, menopausal, reproductive cancers and fertility treatments. it is my party’s and my own view that women should not be denied access to such services. i voted against paragraph 63 part 2 for binding eu legislation on oda by 2015 as the member states should decide these targets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the kaczmarek report. its aim is to contribute to the un's review of the current millennium development goals to highlight priorities and principles that should be taken into account in the design of a future framework. i meet with many groups in wales who work extremely hard fighting global poverty and for the achievement of the millennium development goals. i am sure they will welcome this report and see it as a step towards more progress internationally.
in writing. − i supported this report which reiterates the parliament's commitments to poverty eradication and sustainable development in the post-2015 development agenda. i fully support member states renewing efforts to reach the 0.7% gdp aid target, and believe the eu should lead with a single strong voice during the un discussions on the future of global development. while i do support a financial transaction tax and believe the revenue could contribute to development i think the revenue would best be administered at national level and not contribute to the eu development budget directly.
in writing. − i fully support this report on the post-2015 millennium development goals. this text, adopted by the parliament in advance of the un summit in september, sends a strong message that human rights must form the basis for development cooperation; universal human rights, including sexual and reproductive health rights, are vitally important to achieving all the millennium development goals. as the biggest aid donor in the world, the eu should be leading the way when it comes to defining the future framework. i believe that achieving an ambitious global framework, delivering measurable goals, should remain a priority on the political agenda.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, there is no rule of law in russia. the russian government is a gangster regime which is successfully exporting the rule of lawlessness to the west. meanwhile western governments follow a policy of appeasement. in 2006 agents of the russian state murdered my constituent alexander litvinenko in an act of state-sponsored terrorism. david cameron has broken his earlier promises to help uncover what happened; instead, he has made a deal with president putin. the british government is to withhold vital evidence from the coroner’s court proving the involvement of the russian state. russia blatantly murders people on the streets of london and the british government agrees to look the other way. law enforcement in russia is just a tool of organised crime. any cooperation with russia in security and legal matters should be out of the question until the rule of law is properly established there.
mr president, yesterday i spoke in this chamber about the need for consistency in europe advancing human rights with regard to our strategic partners, and today we name russia as a prime example. the past 12 months have seen the worst government crack-down on civil society in russia’s post-soviet history. today we call for the repeal of the ‘foreign agents’ law which seeks to discredit and demonise groups like golos and adc memorial by clearly seeking to label them as spies and as traitors. i ask the commissioner to answer at the end of this debate: given this legislation, how we can maintain our own eu dialogue with russian civil society? or will we stand aside as it disappears altogether? i join with all of those in this debate protesting against russia’s draft law banning information about so-called ‘non-traditional’ sexuality. sexual orientation is not a tradition: it is a right. the three homophobic murders in russia, reported in may, show it is a right under fatal threat.
rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to start by thanking the irish presidency for its hard work and determination in getting an agreement on much-needed updates to the eu’s port state control system. the current directive needed updating to reflect the maritime labour convention of 2006, which was adopted by the international labour organization (ilo) and which provides comprehensive rights and protection at work for all seafarers, regardless of nationality and flag of ship. the relevance of the port state control system to all of this is that it is seen to be the second line of defence against substandard shipping: a kind of safety net to support – or to catch out – flag states that have failed to ensure compliance with international standards. the port state control directive deals with the enforcement side of international conventions, giving port states a clear role to play in ensuring compliance with international standards for safety, pollution prevention and on-board living and working conditions: hence the need to put in place a robust port state control system for the maritime labour convention of 2006 so that the maritime labour standards are applied on board all ships calling at eu ports. it must be said that, if seafarers are to see real improvements in their conditions of employment, accommodation, social security protection and so on, we need ilo countries to get on with ratifying this convention. sadly, this applies as much to eu countries as to non-eu countries. the maritime labour convention of 2006 is due to come into force in august of this year, yet the following eu countries have not yet ratified it: austria, belgium, the czech republic, estonia, germany, hungary, ireland, italy, lithuania, portugal, romania, slovakia, slovenia, the united kingdom and, our newest member, croatia. this means that 15 out of 28 eu member states have yet to ratify the convention. we can never be too quick in improving standards and conditions on board ships. as i think we all know, substandard ships are unacceptable, both in terms of workers’ rights, ships’ safety and security and with regard to environmental protection. the maritime labour convention of 2006 and its enforcement via the port state control directive are important tools in eliminating substandard shipping. i believe we obtained good compromises with the council on some of the key points that were important to us in the revision of this directive, putting guarantees in place that the application of the revised directive would not result in any backward step in terms of employment and social rights, and ensuring a tighter system of control in eu waters for ships flying the flags of states that have not yet signed up to one or more of the international conventions. i now ask that those member states that i referred to earlier, who have yet to ratify this maritime labour convention of 2006, should do so urgently before it comes into force in august.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, dobro došla hrvatska! i am very happy that the first plenary session of the european parliament after croatia’s accession is starting with a discussion on transport issues. this year is important for the entire seafaring community, as the international labour organization’s maritime labour convention enters into force in august. that convention provides comprehensive rights and protection at work for the world’s seafarers. it will in turn help to maintain and improve the safety and the environmental performance of the shipping industry. the proposal aims to enforce the maritime labour convention through port state control. it is one of two enforcement instruments related to the 2006 convention to be adopted by the european union. i therefore welcome the agreement between the rapporteur, mr simpson – who has done a splendid job on this dossier – and the presidency. i was pleased to note that the committee on transport and tourism overwhelmingly supported it, and i hope that this house will come to the same conclusion about the benefits of the text as it stands now. with this amending directive, the european union will have a strong instrument to make sure that the convention is applied to all ships entering eu waters, and that the working and living conditions of seafarers are protected. it will also guarantee equal conditions for competition for eu-flagged ships.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, as the greens’ shadow on this file i would like to thank the rapporteur, brian simpson, for his effective work. this was a standard procedure to adopt the maritime labour convention (mlc) of 2006 into eu law and in so doing to secure seafarers’ rights and protection. we are going to be supporting this first reading agreement in view of the rapporteur’s call for non-regression. that means no existing standards of social legislation should be allowed to be lowered due to the adoption of this piece of legislation. the recommendations on non-ratification did not go as far as we wanted – our proposal wanted to put ships from flag states not signing the mlc into a higher risk category but this was not accepted. we did at least get an agreement that non-flag vessels would get ‘no more favourable treatment’ than ones sailing under the convention; in article 3 of the amended directive.
rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to add my thanks to the commission and also to the shadow rapporteurs for the work they did in getting this agreement under the irish presidency. i just want to remind members that this ratification is a step in the right direction. what we are doing here is putting into eu law what has already been agreed at the international labour organization, but we are not doing just that, we are doing it with provisions which mean that eu labour laws would not be compromised. so we have protected our own labour laws whilst, at the same time, ratifying the international agreement. do we still face challenges with flags of convenience and sub-standard ships? yes we do, but i believe this report takes us in the right direction in trying to address that particular problem. i would say to the national governments that we have done our bit in parliament; it is now up to them to do their part – especially those who have not ratified the maritime labour convention (mlc) or have not signed up. they should do so immediately, or as soon as possible, so that by august all the member states should be signed up when the mlc comes into force.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, back in the uk, i have even been asked why we even need minimum standards at eu level for periodic technical inspections – or what we call mot tests. the answer is simple: in an area of freedom of movement, where we can drive our cars from one end of europe to the other, it is clear that we need to make sure that all vehicles crossing borders are safe, for the safety of everybody. we also need to be consistent in our approach. we are doing a lot to raise the safety and environmental standards of vehicles at manufacture, but we need to make sure that they are maintained through the life of the vehicle. in the uk, and also in many other member states, standards of mots are already very high, so it is absolutely right that we try to maintain and raise standards across the eu as a whole. i still have some concerns about trailers and caravans. i have been asking questions about the justification and the evidence for the testing of trailers and caravans ever since the beginning of the process. i have to say that the questions have not really been answered, and i would be very grateful if the commission, even at this very late stage, could provide us with some figures. i have always thought that accidents related to trailers were mostly likely to be caused by driver error, inexperience, overloading or excessive speed, and i therefore believe that subjecting trailers to roadside checks is absolutely justified and that a risk rating system should be included for trailers. having said that, i would like to say that in general we support the proposals.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as shadow rapporteur for my group, i wish specifically to address the registration documents proposal. i welcome this report and i thank ms[nbsp ]savisaar and the other shadow rapporteurs for the constructive dialogue leading to an agreement on compromises that should work for the united kingdom – which, of course, has a system of vehicle testing, taxation and registration different from that of many other eu countries. i had concerns about the original draft report’s proposal on the mandatory exchange of database information but these have now been addressed, safeguarding national sovereignty over the data that member states collect and protecting uk citizens’ private details. we can all agree that we want to see an easier and less bureaucratic system of vehicle re-registration across the european union; however, i am pleased that this directive still allows member states as much flexibility in implementation as is feasible.
mr president, here we have more legislation from the eu sausage machine to waste uk civil servants’ time and confuse citizens. i have listened to debates on the length of chickens’ beaks, inquiries into how much wine there is in a wine[nbsp ]gum and facts about rotten fruit leading to drunken reindeer which then savage people. the message-tapping cia must be bored out of their tiny minds. you would serve your countries better by staying at home and chewing cardboard. there was a time when the british thought the italians were amusing: ignoring the rules after making so many. we now understand that an over-supply of silly rules leads to disrespect for the law, and pedestrian crossings become suitable only for those with a suicidal tendency. we have far too much law. eu rules are openly broken and are not enforced by the commission. this puts those who obey the rules into an adverse trading position. the failure to enforce eu law on the size of chicken cages, causing problems with egg production, is just one very costly example. should you have further rules and mad-cap ideas up your sleeves, i suggest you shove them up your armholes or, like the italians, make love not law. ukip backs westminster as the place where uk law must be made. for these reasons, ukip will vote against this new law.
mr president, i would just like to briefly comment on two reports: the periodic testing and the roadside checks. firstly, on the kuhn report, we all agree that we need good safety standards across europe and i think that there are some areas that have still not been addressed. on a positive note, i am relieved to see that the testing on classic cars, motorcycles and agricultural tractors has rightly been left to the competence of the member state. there is no evidence to suggest that the inclusion of caravans – a six billion pound industry in the uk – and light commercial trailers would benefit from a road safety angle. we should be encouraging our leisure and tourism industries, not penalising them. i have also voiced concerns that this report could potentially prevent over 20[nbsp ]000 repair garages in the uk from effectively carrying out inspections and, as a result, would undermine our uk mot system, which is robust. on roadside checks, inspections need to be targeted on heavy goods vehicles and not vans and member states’ subsidiarity must be taken into account. to conclude, the british conservatives will not support the reports as they currently stand as some of the proposals are, unfortunately, still ill-conceived and unacceptable. they are over-prescriptive, too burdensome and too costly.
ms flašíková beňová, i am very sorry to hear that. thank you for telling the house.
mr president, i have recently been in contact with the president of the caravan club of great britain. he is most concerned about this possible new legislation. i personally am horrified. i don’t know how many other people here i speak for, but i was a caravanner for many years and belonged to the caravan club – not to attend their gatherings and rallys and so on, but to obtain advice and information, including tips on how to tow. i hardly use my caravan in the uk. i brought it across the channel and had my holidays here. i’ve towed it all the way from calais to the south of france. i’ve taken it over the alps into italy. i’ve gone around the alps in switzerland and other places, all without an accident of any description. nor did i see one with any other caravan, and nor did i see a caravan on a caravan site which had obviously been damaged in an accident. why? because i took my caravan for servicing myself every year. i did not want to part company with my caravan down a german autobahn. neither does anybody else! do people not understand that if a caravan is not in good order and has an accident on its own, like snaking or suddenly departing from its pre-designed course, then it takes the car with it and everybody in the car will suffer injury if not death? caravanners, in spite of what they might look like, are not mad. they will look after their caravans for the sake of their own necks. this proposed regulation is completely superfluous and i will oppose it with all my strength.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 2 july 2013. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – this report proposes a series of amendments to the eu roadworthiness package that would see light commercial vehicles subject to technical roadside inspections using mobile inspection units or test centres. parliament may not be aware of this but in the uk we already have a procedure for testing road vehicle safety – the great british institution that is the mot. and this is a procedure that has worked perfectly well for us to date. so, why should we in the uk be forced to replace, or at the very least modify our existing, perfectly effective and reliable system by one imposed on us by the eu? furthermore, why should we be forced to impose this new system on an industry that is already heavily under strain as a result of excessive taxing and incredibly high fuel prices? british lorry drivers are losing their jobs and haulage companies are going out of business at a rate of knots and the very last thing they need is to be tied up in yet more unnecessary eu red tape such as that proposed in this report.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on road safety 2011-2020 – first milestones towards an injury strategy (2013/2670(rsp)) by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-000061/2013 – b7-0211/2013).
author. - mr president, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, i welcome this oral question which gives us the opportunity to revisit the important issue of road safety. some members may trivialise road safety but, armpits or not, i am glad to say that – thankfully – the majority of my committee take it far more seriously. as you know, commissioner, the european parliament adopted a road safety report back in 2011 pushing for ambitious eu targets to be set in reducing the number of needless accidents on our roads by 2020. we know that the setting of targets is key to pushing national, regional and local authorities to put in place specific measures to actually tackle the problems that we face on our roads. specific targets on road safety have proved successful in raising the level of ambition and achieving effective implementation of road safety policies at national and local level. while there is no doubt that specific measures and initiatives can best be tailored and adapted at national and local level, eu leadership in this area has proved successful in the past in getting member states to recognise the seriousness of the problem. while parliament strongly welcomed at the time the commitment to cut 50% of road deaths by 2020, we also knew that this was only partly addressing the road safety problem. deaths are only one measure of the magnitude of road accident problems. road deaths have been declining, in some part due to the improvements in medical care. as a result, non-fatal injuries are increasing. i think one-and-a-half million people are reported to be injured every year on eu roads, with 300[nbsp ]000 of those reported to be seriously injured. i fail to understand how we can continue to be so complacent about these figures: there seems to be simply an unacceptable complacency when it comes to road safety. if aviation or our railways had the accident figures that road transport has, there would be a public outcry. across europe there seems to be a general acceptance or refusal to acknowledge the danger we face as road users, so the more we can do to address this issue the better. now is the time for us to stop taking a back seat and to stop pretending that a problem is not there. in the absence of a common definition across the eu for serious injuries, we were not able to set a target for local, regional and national authorities to work towards. that is why we so welcome the recent progress report from the commission which announces a common definition of serious injuries and a system of collecting data. however, we want to ensure that the important foundations laid in dieter-lebrecht koch’s report are fully followed through. parliament requested not only that the commission came up with a common definition quickly but that, once established, an ambitious target would be set for cutting down on serious injuries in road accidents. can i ask the commission when it will set a target to reduce serious injuries by 2020 and – equally important – how will it make sure that member states are working towards that target? what accompanying measures and initiatives will the commission put forward to support tackling serious injuries, and what measures can specifically be put in place to help more vulnerable road users such as cyclists, pedestrians and young children? can the commission also indicate to us the importance of road surfaces and the lack of maintenance that is now rife in member states, and what significant effect that has on road accidents? you will see from the motion for a resolution tabled by the committee as a follow-up to the oral question that we already have a few ideas on this. given the continued leadership we hope to see from the european commission on road safety, i would like to hear how it plans to follow up on the common definition of serious injuries. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr simpson, you mentioned the fact that we needed some concrete measures in relation to vulnerable road users. would you agree that there could and should have been in this document something about cyclists and heavy goods vehicles, with some concrete measures particularly to do with lorry cab designs so that drivers can see cyclists and pedestrians nearby much more easily, and the need for mandatory cameras and sensors so that drivers are aware of all cyclists and pedestrians in the vicinity of their vehicles?
blue-card answer. – mr president, in answering that i would direct the honourable member to some of the work which has already been done with regard to wing mirrors and side wing mirrors so that the visibility for lorry drivers is improved in respect of vulnerable road users like cyclists. it is very diffficult in an oral question to try and bring everything together in one issue, but there is certainly an issue with vulnerable road users. however, it has also got to be said that cyclists would do themselves a great favour if, while trying to get there quicker, they stopped moving up along the near side of a lorry when a lorry has stopped and also if they did not use the pavement. in some respects i would say that ‘god helps him that helps himself’, but that does not take away the fact that there are vulnerable road users – the cyclists – and we should do anything we can do to help them. but of course members opposite, whose seats are now radically empty, will probably tell you: the cost, the cost, the cost! well, what is the cost of a life?
mr president, we have to remember that reducing road fatalities is something that the member states in the european union have already agreed to do. what we should now do is turn our attention to the number of seriously injured on our roads; this is also very important. i would like to mention three things. firstly, it is important to collect and share data so that we can learn lessons from each other. secondly, others have mentioned the design of lorry cabs; this is something that i would have liked to have seen in the resolution. thirdly, ecall is now on the way, but what we do not yet have is a real agreement on the emergency number. before we bring in mandatory ecall, we must make it mandatory for the member states to implement the 112 number, which is redirected to 999 in the uk. otherwise bringing in the mandatory ecall for manufacturers is going to be completely irrelevant.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, good-quality water is a priority for us all, but we have to be realistic about what we can achieve and the timeframe in which we should be achieving it. i have always been against the commission’s inclusion of the three pharmaceuticals in the list of priority substances, due to what i believe to be the unjustifiably large costs of treating wastewater to remove them. in the uk alone, the cost was estimated at eur 35 billion over 20 years. i have to disagree with the commissioner when he says that incontrovertible scientific evidence was put to us. if that were the case, we would all have been voting for it. it simply was not the case that it was incontrovertible. inflicting such costs on households, through high water bills, at a time of economic difficulty is unacceptable. this proposal also highlighted the lack of consistency between the water framework directive and other pieces of eu legislation. i am glad to say that on these key issues favourable compromises were reached at trialogue and acceptable agreements were reached on timetables for implementation and the watchlist. so i am happy to be able to vote – and for my group to be able to vote – in favour of this report.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to an incident on the evening of 23 june off west beach in the bay of gibraltar. my constituent, mr dale villa, was riding a new jet ski with family and friends when, without warning, a patrol boat of the spanish guardia civil fired a shot at him, then chased him and fired three more shots, even though he was within waters the un convention on the law of the sea has determined as belonging to gibraltar. it is lucky that mr villa was not killed or seriously injured. gibraltar has been a member of the european union for 40 years. unlike any other territory it is fully compliant with eu rules. it is totally unacceptable that my constituent should have been attacked by police from spain in this way when no offence has been committed and when he was not within their waters. this is one of many such incursions by the guardia civil in the past three years. i would ask president schulz to take up this matter with the authorities of spain, to protect my constituents.
mr president, last month the north of ireland drew further to the politics of exclusion by passing legislation barring politically motivated ex-prisoners from taking on the role of advisers to executive ministers. i must declare an interest in this issue as my husband is directly affected. paul kavanagh, an ex-prisoner who served 15 years in prison and who has been a political adviser for five years to the joint first minister martin mcguinness, will be sacked. we now have a ludicrous situation whereby ex-prisoners can be ministers making decisions – like i was – but not advisers to ministers. despite the good friday agreement providing for the employment and reintegration of ex-prisoners, the sdlp and others have allowed the politics of exclusion to re-emerge, imposing a retrospective punishment in breach of article 7 of the european convention on human rights. it was, after all, discriminatory practices that fed the causes of the conflict in ireland, so the irish government, as a co-signatory of the good friday agreement, should support a challenge to this discriminatory law.
mr president, i recently spent four days in damascus, a city that is striking for its normality and religious tolerance. contrary to the propaganda about repression, sunni mosques are open and some women wear clothing which shows the salafist sympathies of their husbands. others wear mini-skirts. it is a secular society much like ours. i also met captured free-syria army rebels not only from north africa and central asia, but also from france and spain. they spoke freely about their aim, once they were done in syria, to bring their bloody jihad to europe – to london, paris, madrid, stockholm and manchester. at least 600 eu-born islamists are fighting with the rebels. if you send arms to syria, they will go to men who will bring them back here and turn them against us. if you arm the rebels, you will not just help these cut-throats destroy the last tolerant secular state in the middle east, you will also bring wahabi terror to our streets. stop and think before you plunge your hands in so much innocent blood.
mr president, this week marks the 25th anniversary of the piper alpha tragedy. on 6[nbsp ]july 1988, a series of explosions on the piper alpha oil and gas platform turned the rig into an inferno. one hundred and sixty-seven men lost their lives and only 59 men survived. the piper alpha tragedy is still today not just europe’s but also the world’s most deadly off-shore disaster. it is therefore fitting that this house remember those who lost their lives in the north sea. as one of the survivors said: ‘piper has never left me; it was yesterday and will always be yesterday.’ that is why we should always support the highest standards in health and safety, especially in the off-shore environment. only yesterday a crane on the brent charlie platform and some of its support structures were damaged. no one was injured and an investigation has been launched. to conclude, we should never forget the piper alpha disaster and we should do all we can across the eu and the world to ensure that such a disaster never happens again.
blue-card question. – ms harms, is the termination or temporary cessation of the eu-us discussions designed to end in a trade agreement formal greens policy, or is that just your personal opinion?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we keep debating unemployment and poor growth here, but what steps are we actually taking to solve this particular crisis? we are of course taking some, but it is not nearly enough. we ask ourselves: why is that? it is because too often vested interests are obstructing the reforms that we desperately need in europe. we fail to see that more laws, more initiatives, more red tape are actually harming businesses and stopping people from working. we need to understand that sometimes in europe ‘less is more’. let me give you an example. this is from someone who works in a temporary work agency and actually deals with the agency workers directive. they said, and i quote: ‘in many cases drivers who are employed on a pay-as-you-earn basis are actually being stopped from working after their eleventh week as this is the point at which the eu regulations kick in’. people are actually being stopped from working because of the laws that we pass here in europe. the commission’s own european vacancy monitor showed that after the agency workers directive came into force, vacancies at randstad, which is france’s leading temporary agency, fell by 20% in two months. this of course is legislation brought in to protect workers, but actually it persecutes them. if we are serious about solving this problem then there are two good places to start. first of all we should scrap the laws that punish productivity, that damage entrepreneurship; secondly, we should open up markets so that enterprise is rewarded and not penalised. the best way to create more employment in europe would be to create some unemployment in the european commission – fewer officials dreaming up new rules and regulations; fewer pet projects; fewer vested interests standing in the way of the structural reform that we need. the saying ‘less is more’ should of course apply to the eu, and that is why i fully support the dutch government’s recent efforts to draw a line in the sand to say that there are competences that we believe are better exercised closer to the people, that ever-closer union is not the answer to our problems in europe. i am sure that mr verhofstadt will want to show his support for the position put forward by one of his own liberal governments. the problem is that we in this parliament and officials in the commission are dominated by those same vested interests. this parliament seeks to extend its powers at every opportunity; commission officials move their careers forward by formulating new ways to interfere in our lives here in europe. ever-closer union has become synonymous with ever-more meddling regardless of whether it is the right thing to do, either for our economy or for our people. we will soon be perfectly harmonised, we will be perfectly equal in europe. unfortunately we will have harmonised unemployment and we will have equalised poverty across the union. there is an alternative, and that is to cut the red tape that binds us; to redirect our efforts and open up markets across europe; to reward hard work. to do so of course will not be easy. there will be protests from many lobby groups, from trade unions and from others often funded by the eu itself, but by taking on those vested interests we will open to door to the economic reforms that we have to make. that is why i would like to see president barroso use the last few months of his term to take on those on the left and the socialists who are actually preventing these reforms. in fact i have to admit that i am actually at a bit of a loss today because normally i like to stand here and reprimand president barroso for stuff the commission has done, or alternatively i like to denigrate the french socialist government, but it seems to me that they are doing such a good job of slagging off each other that i am not sure i am actually required to interfere in this happy feast any more. frankly, some of the comments made by french ministers in recent weeks have undermined their own credibility and demonstrated the desperate situation in which they find themselves. so they hit out at anybody and anything rather than take responsibility for their own poor decisions in france. we now know that it is possible to overcome some vested interests. the long-term mff budget has shown that change, even a little bit of change, is slightly possible in europe. the siren voices continue to argue that reducing the eu budget will somehow damage the economy in europe. we all know that is not true. it will of course harm those that are dependent on eu handouts, such as the trade unions and the ngos that the commission funds. but does anybody outside the bubble really believe that we cannot reduce the budget in europe and yet increase its value? if we want to solve the eu’s economic crisis then we need to overcome those vested interests that stand in our way, that stop us from delivering a better europe by constantly forcing us to deliver more europe. we can do more to help europe’s economy by doing less here in the commission and in this chamber.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, for the first time this year not just mr barroso but also president van rompuy have come to the chamber, and yet look around you. what have we got? five percent turnout amongst members? they have not missed much. just the usual drivel about the fight against youth unemployment. with 62% youth unemployment in greece, and with spain not far behind, it is perhaps about time we were honest and admitted we are causing it ourselves. we are doing it through the misconstruction of the euro, through the obsession with global warming and the over-regulated business model. yet your recipe is more bureaucracy: a youth guarantee scheme, another six billion for the youth employment initiative, the setting-up of the european alliance for apprenticeships, backed up by the quality framework for traineeships, and the list goes on, and on: yet more highly-paid civil servants setting up organisations that will achieve nothing. until the euro is broken up, until you reverse the social market model you will not help youth unemployment. however i must concede you have had one great victory. a couple of years ago mr barroso said that the european union was an empire, and your empire has just expanded. indeed david cameron appears to be the biggest cheerleader for the eu extending all the way to the urals. no, you have got croatia. you have planted your flag on croatian soil. not that there was much public support for this: only 22% of croatians turned out to vote in the european parliament elections. but there was plenty of support from the croatian political class. oh yes, the prime minister who negotiated entry, mr sanader, who was jailed for ten years last year for selling national assets, has been backed up by the whole of croatia. they have sold out their country for personal gain and to be on a bigger stage. a country that fought for 800 years to be independent has given it away after twenty years to these guys in front of us today. well you may be getting away with it for the moment, but it is not going to last very long. there is a gathering electoral storm. it is coming on the left, in the centre and on the right. you can hardly fail to notice what has happened in big countries like france or italy, what is happening in finland, the netherlands, and even in britain. the european elections next year present the opportunity for us to show you, mr barroso, that the european project is reversible, and it needs to be reversed for the betterment of the peoples of europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well there was a referendum in theory. you will notice that less than 50% of people turned out to vote; you will notice that millions of euros from the european institutions were poured for many years into croatia; and you will notice that there was something called pre-accession aid – we can call it bribery if you like – that was poured into croatia, and there was a prize. we, in turn, offered a prize for the first eurosceptic article that appeared in a croatian newspaper. in the three years leading up to the referendum we did not have to give away any money. that is the point: it is a one-sided political debate and it is all about the power of brussels and the greed and vanity of politicians in member states. i am paid by the european parliament and what i am doing – just as the scottish national party do, and just as the irish nationalists in the 19th century did – is using that money to expose the waste, the fraud and the extent to which our countries are now governed by these chambers. the sooner i get the opportunity, sir, to be the turkey that votes for christmas, i will do so!
mr president, increased mobility is not so much a cure for youth unemployment as it is a cause, at least in the west. unemployment in the south is caused directly by a euro that is over-valued for those countries, but the european council is determined to keep on expanding the zone. the european council wants to improve growth and competitiveness, but the eu’s energy policy pushes up energy costs, making industry less competitive. it even provides incentives for manufacturers like corus near middlesbrough to move production to india. immigration – two thirds of it from outside the eu in the case of the uk – is giving our jobs to people from outside. increasing globalism will make industry in the eu try unsuccessfully to compete with emergent economies. the european council does not so much have a cure for the recession, it is part of the problem.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the presidents of parliament, the commission and the council on achieving an mff deal, but especially can i thank the irish presidency, the taoiseach and ministers creighton and gilmore. this mff deal represents a major success of a highly effective presidency. taoiseach, you and your team earned our thanks and respect for handling a very tough negotiation, and for delivering a successful outcome on time. that was not easy. it was a thoroughly good job done. this deal is a sensible pragmatic agreement. it reflects the efforts to contain and control costs of government within the member states. the key now is implementation. there are two points which i would like to make, and the first is on flexibility. flexibility is important. it is going to help us manage the budget, and it will enable us to address changing priorities. however, i want to stress firstly that it is no substitute for discipline, and secondly that it underlines the need to shorten the budgetary period – a five-year budget for a five-year parliament. moreover, i remain concerned that not enough has been done to address the ongoing budget deficit, which will leave us with our ongoing rals problems. finally, i congratulate you, taoiseach, on your determination to address funding for youth unemployment and smes. frankly, this catastrophe should have been addressed long ago. you have demonstrated the will to provide the funds. we now have to demonstrate the capacity to absorb the funds and to deliver benefit to the european citizens.
mr president, firstly let me commend the irish republic on the manner in which it has conducted its time in office during the presidency. political agreements have been reached on a number of difficult issues – the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and the mff – and whilst i am still anxious to see the legal text, i recognise that this is no mean feat. i am, however, disappointed that there has been little or no focus on the resolution of the institutional dispute between the council, parliament and commission, with these matters now being settled in court. the report on north sea cod, on which i worked as the rapporteur, is caught up in this dispute. reports passed by this house and which create flexibility for the cod plan are now in jeopardy. fishermen from the united kingdom, the republic of ireland and other european nations look at this political wrangling with frustration and anger, but not disbelief – they have become all too accustomed to the failure of brussels to act on their behalf.
mr president, the irish presidency has not been a success despite what has been said here earlier. however, i do commend its leadership on the issue of the tobacco products directive as it announced plans to become the first eu member to bring in 100% standardised packaging. maith thú! – well done. i also welcome the extension to peace funding. unfortunately, this is in contrast to its lack of leadership in other areas. the tánaiste eamon gilmore’s tactics in the mff negotiation was an embarrassment. the substance of the proposed mff agreement is equally disappointing. it represents continued austerity: its immediate impact will be a 6% cut to the eu budget in 2014. it is the first time the eu budget has been cut in 56 years and it was cut under the irish presidency. i find that shameful. austerity is not working in ireland, and it will not work for the rest of europe. furthermore, the irish presidency failed to extend the syrian arms embargo and failed to put domestic violence on the agenda.
in writing. – the highly successful six-month eu presidency by ireland has been an excellent example for all to follow in future. the irish presidency has, against considerable odds, succeeded in brokering a deal on reform of the common fisheries policy, and worked extremely hard to deliver similar results on eu agriculture policy. the presidency has even succeeded in winning agreement on the even more complex and controversial matter of the eu budget for future years. the fact that this immensely difficult and politically contentious series of talks has been led so outstandingly well by ireland demonstrates very clearly that there is absolutely no reason why an independent scotland could not also succeed and prosper as a normal independent member state of the eu. it is clearly not the size of a member state which determines its political and diplomatic effectiveness. this week heralded the official start of croatia’s membership of the european union. croatia, like ireland, is smaller than scotland, and commences its eu membership with a commissioner nominated by its government, a top-table seat in the council of ministers, and twice as many meps as scotland currently has. with independence, scotland too will join the mainstream in europe.
mr president, for this report, and indeed for the reports by ms sehnalová and mr kuhn – we will have to do them separately – could i please ask, under the rules, that we postpone the vote on the legislative resolution and refer the matter back to the committee on transport and tourism, with a view to reaching a first reading agreement with the council?
mr president, i have the same request as for the previous report, which is that this report go back to the committee on transport and tourism, with a view to reaching a first reading agreement with the council, and so to postpone the legislative vote.
mr president, for the third and last time, can i ask parliament to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution, sending this back to committee for an opportunity for negotiations with the presidency for a first reading deal?
in writing. − i voted against the roth-behrendt report on staff regulations because of the failure to distribute the burden amongst higher-grade officials progressively and fairly. this is also evident in the case of the privileges and allowances that the report does not even mention. wales has to deal with cuts like everywhere else and it is important that we make the system as fair and as open as possible for all.
in writing. − i agree with the proposal to base the method on nominal salary changes (instead of real salary changes) in all the member states, instead of in only some of them, and hope that the commission will be able to find a practical solution to the problem of obtaining relevant data from 27 member states on time.
in writing. − whilst the agreement between parliament and the council could have gone further, the deal on the table makes substantially more savings than those proposed by the commission. rejection of this deal would lead to budgetary uncertainty with the current pay freeze left open to legal challenges. as a parliament we need to take our responsibilities for reform seriously and not simply say no to a reform that will reduce costs. this is the first step towards a further and deeper reform and we want to work constructively to achieve that. therefore the eplp is voting in favour of the cuts and savings made to the eu’s administrative budget.
in writing. − i voted against this report because it does nothing to address the real problems of pay levels for eu officials. it has failed to reform the expat, household and travel allowances offered to officials and, frankly, it does not address the questions being raised by concerned citizens. the public is rightly annoyed at the amount the eu institutions spend on salaries. and i agree with them when the link between merit and pay remains weak. by not ensuring that taxpayers are getting value for money from eu officials, the european institutions are failing to address the persistent perception that the eu is little more than a gravy train. the proposed 7.2 % increase in staff pensions is unacceptable, especially at a time of economic hardship across europe. overall the report lacks ambition. meps had a real chance to radically reform the way in which eu staff are paid and to address the concerns of member states and the public. the reforms fail to address profligate allowances, fail to encourage efficiency and fail to identify with the many who struggle on a daily basis to make a living.
in writing. − my party holds the view that it is not the council’s place to give independent sovereign states permission to act in one way or another – it is up to the individual member states to make their own decisions and act of their own accord. for this reason, i voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this amendment to the vienna convention on civil liability for nuclear damage. it is necessary to address the lack of uniformity among member states on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in the field of nuclear damage. for wales with one nuclear power plant and another in the process of being decommissioned, it is imperative that proper rules are laid down to ensure that in the event of a nuclear accident, those responsible are made liable for the damage.
in writing. − i welcome this report. international nuclear liability is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the paris convention on third party liability in the field of nuclear energy of 1960. both conventions share similar principles on substance. the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation to victims of damage caused by nuclear accident, by setting up a special system of civil liability in the field of nuclear energy.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i do not believe that the commission should be granted the power to launch this kind of investigation.
in writing. − i welcome this report. currently, the commission has to investigate every alleged violation of the state aid rules, no matter what the source is; there are no specific formal requirements attached to the lodging of a complaint. this has led to a high number of complaints lodged at the commission, many of which are either not motivated by genuine competition concerns or not sufficiently substantiated, leading to a situation where resources are tied up and often diverted from pursuing genuine competition issues, and procedures are prolonged. to address this, the commission proposes that complainants are in the future required to submit a certain amount of compulsory information, while also demonstrating that they are interested parties in the alleged misuse of state aid. in cases where the information does not pass these admissibility criteria, it will not be classified as a complaint, meaning the commission will no longer be under an obligation to adopt formal decisions
mr president, i of course voted in favour of this report given its importance, and particularly because we need a strong external aviation policy in a world where aviation is part of global trade. much more still needs to be done on the single european sky. we still have a ridiculously fragmented situation. much more also needs to be done in order for the eu to be stronger in its negotiations with third countries. if we fail to do that, we will fail to get a level playing field for european airlines in the global economy. i am, of course, referring in particular to the emissions trade mechanism, where we need a global agreement, and we need to be speaking with one voice with the international civil aviation organization to get it. finally, on airport capacity and the increasing number of congested airports around europe, we cannot keep building new runways at hub airports and solve the issue of noise with bans on night flights. we need a long term strategy and to look at developing specialised hubs through our regional airports and to stop focusing only on existing hub airports.
mr president, international aviation by definition crosses borders. therefore, while i am always cautious in the battle of competing eu and member state competences, aviation policy is one area where, clearly, a coordinated policy can add value and make logistical sense, and an eu common aviation policy brings tangible economic benefits for all member states. a common rigorous and strong external aviation policy would help to extend that, particularly by opening up new opportunities for eu airlines internationally. given that heathrow, which is probably the world’s busiest airport globally, lies inside my london constituency, i fully support all initiatives to boost international aviation and to make it more efficient, less noise and air-pollutant and more cost-effective. to this extent i welcome the report’s call to examine the lack of a level playing field across international airports. it is in all our interests for aviation to work better both for businesses, for job creation and for consumers, so i am delighted to support it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the proposals outlined will help increase competitiveness amongst eu airlines and airports. the welsh government has just purchased cardiff airport which is of key importance to our economy and i want eu legislation to enable us to develop the airport to the best european standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. aviation is an important sector across europe where it accounts for more than five million jobs, especially in the uk – home to the world’s busiest international airport at heathrow and many high-skilled aviation engineers. there are a number of key areas of focus which i believe are of high importance as we look forward. firstly, it is vital that we push forward with the single european sky. all member states committed to this project over 10 years ago and we must not now let it be hampered by the vested interests of some countries. it is also important that we lay the foundations for a policy focused on the most significant growth markets in the long-haul sector, creating economic opportunities for european airlines, particularly in the asia-pacific region. i want uk airlines and the entire aviation supply chain to be competitive in the global market, to be able to grow and expand, create jobs and foster economic growth without the often pointless and burdensome legislation bought forward by the regulation obsessed commission.
in writing. − i supported this report and in particular welcome the reference to passenger rights. this is one area of consumer law where the eu has done good work in strengthening the rights of our citizens. any efforts the union can make to encourage airlines and nations outwith europe to adopt similar policies are to be welcomed.
in writing. − aviation is today a key sector in the european economy. it contributes eur 365 billion to european gdp and supports 5.1 million jobs but, seven years after the communication from the commission on ‘developing the agenda for the community’s external aviation policy’, we have still to reach our goals. it is, now more than ever, time to make rapid progress in european aviation. new economic challenges are arising from regions of the world where much more permissive legislation is allowing companies to build huge new airports that divert a lot of travellers from european hubs. the european union urgently needs increased airport capacity to avoid the risk of losing competitiveness relative to regions that are experiencing rapid exponential growth (our concerns are focused on the asia-pacific, middle east and south american regions). investment in airport infrastructure must be taken seriously, even if demand does not yet exceed supply. meanwhile, the existing capacity needs to be used to its maximum efficiency (including by means of better management of slots and use of non-hub airports to reduce congestion).
mr president, in 2012-13 british businesses received gbp 4.3 billion worth of support from the uk government through uk export finance. i am therefore a strong believer that member states’ export credit agencies are vital in fostering the domestic export industry and i am wholly supportive of the commission’s efforts in establishing a framework for the annual reporting of eu member states on the activities of their ecas. furthermore, these efforts are fundamental to increased transparency and comparability across all the member states. ecas are a hugely important instrument for enhancing trade across europe and internationally. therefore i commend the report’s desire for increased monitoring of these agencies so as to evaluate, maximise and learn from ongoing eca projects and exchange experiences. increasing exports from britain are a key driver of economic growth and job creation and this is an area which the eu should be focused on and which can bring real, true added value to the table.
mr president, one of the things that we are often told is that we need to be in the european union in order to have a seat at the table. something that struck me in the years that i have been doing this job is how many of these eu directives and regulations are there to give effect to guidelines or rules that come from an even higher, more international level, this one being a very good example. this report is about implementing an oecd agreement. it could have equally have been an international labour organization agreement or a un convention. what happens in practice is that the european union has one seat at the table and then norway and switzerland and the other independent countries have their own seats so in fact, far from getting a seat at the table, the member states are surrendering their seat at the table where the law is actually made in exchange for a voice over how to implement it when it has come down. since we did not get an explanation of the vote i would like to use my last five seconds to say something about the roth-behrendt report. it is extraordinary when we are raising taxes and cutting civil service pay around europe that our own employees are exempt from both of those things, that their salaries keep rising and that they pay no tax. we are in a pre-revolutionary, pre-1789 situation where decision-makers are immune from the consequences of their own decisions.
in writing. − i welcome this report which “underlines the importance – in the context of the scale of member states’ export credit activities – of recital 4 of regulation 1233/2011, calling for compliance with the union’s general provisions on external action, such as consolidating democracy, respect for human rights and policy coherence for development, and the fight against climate change; recalls, in this sense, the importance of the specific reporting requirements formulated in annex i of the regulation to ensure that the commission and parliament are able to make an assessment of this compliance”.
in writing. − this decision is a frightening example of the lack of freedom of speech and/or expression that exists within parliament. it essentially aims to stop eurosceptics from (rightfully) criticising failing policies.
in writing. − i voted to waive the immunity of marine le pen. ms le pen is accused of incitement to hatred, discrimination or violence against a group of persons on grounds of their religious affiliation.
in writing. − this report outlines plans for the creation of a pan-european foundation which would allow charities to better establish themselves as european entities and thus, like organisations such as oxfam and friends of the earth, better apply themselves to the business of aggrandising themselves to facilitate the transfer of even more eu money into their coffers. the uk has a charity law to apply in issues such as this and, while it is far from perfect, this law was created by her majesty the queen and works very well in the uk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the statute for the establishment of a european foundation. this would be an association set up for the good of european citizens, and the eu economy as a whole. it would facilitate the cross-border activities of foundations, as many encounter difficulty in channelling cross-border funds. we have to ensure that the eu is closer to the people and relevant to their everyday concerns. i welcome initiatives like this which help ngos and other charitable foundations, and it is in the welsh national interest and the interests of all member states.
in writing. − foundations exist throughout europe and contribute in numerous ways across sectors. many of the public benefits offered by foundations are of an increasingly cross-border nature and i support moves to allow eu entities to complement those bodies already in existence under domestic law.
in writing. − i voted against this report as its imposes yet more minimum conditions on ships. ports are vital to both state security and trade and the eu should not have any say in the matter.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and agree that minimum working and living standards must apply to crews on board ships regardless of nationality. it is appropriate for measures to be taken at eu level to implement the maritime labour convention.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the maritime labour convention (mlc) was adopted by the international labour organisation (ilo) on 23 february 2006. it covers the minimum requirements for seafarers to work on board a ship (title i of the mlc), conditions of employment (title ii), accommodation, recreational facilities, food and catering (title iii), health protection, medical care, welfare and social security protection (title iv) and compliance and enforcement (title v). it will replace 37 existing ilo maritime conventions and related recommendations adopted since 1920 and will represent the first comprehensive maritime labour code for more than 1.2 million seafarers worldwide.
in writing. − this directive is vital to ensure rights and protection at work to all seafarers regardless of their nationality. we, as the socialists and democrats, wanted to ensure that any application of the revised port state control directive would not lead to any backward step in terms of labour or social rights. i strongly support my colleague brian simpson’s position on this.
mr president, while there is a clear need to combat fraud and car-related crime across eu borders, i do not believe that the committee’s intention to create national electronic registers containing vehicle registration information is the best way to tackle this problem. although the premise of information-sharing between member states is to be welcomed, it is possible that these databases would simply accrue cost, duplicate information and store data in excess of what is needed. i am nonetheless supportive of the proposals that would ensure that vehicles with dangerous defects could be temporarily banned from the roads. this would safeguard road safety. critically, however, amendment 8 of the committee on transport and tourism’s report would compel national authorities to print details of roadworthiness tests on vehicles’ registration certificates. this would cause undue cost and inconvenience to motorists, as certificates may have to be edited every time a car, lorry or van undergoes a new ministry of transport (mot) test or is sold. such administrative bureaucracy is unacceptable.
mr president, our roads in the uk are amongst some of the safest in europe. however, i do believe that it is important that we continually strive to improve our road safety, both in the uk and across the whole of the eu. i am pleased to support this proposal to amend the requirements outlined in the existing legislative framework which governs registration documents for vehicles. in this case, however, i hope that by returning this to committee the resulting agreements in trialogue will be able to strengthen the enforcement of the current rules for roadside inspection and roadworthiness testing and ensure that, in particular, these regimes are upheld in cases where the technical condition of a vehicle poses a risk to all our road safety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it means more effective rules on registration documents which will, in turn, improve road safety for my constituents in wales. lack of proper documents can cause complications and mistakes, and clearer legislation can also help fight crime and prevent legal disputes.
in writing. − this proposal as a part of the roadworthiness package aims at supporting and enforcing roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles with a view to enhancing road safety and environmental protection. it improves the enforcement of the roadworthiness testing and roadside inspection regime, notably in the case where the technical condition of a vehicle creates an imminent risk to road safety, through measures such as temporary withdrawal or permanent cancellation of the vehicle’s registration. before a vehicle is allowed to be put on the market, it has to fulfil all the relevant type or individual approval requirements guaranteeing an optimal level of safety and environmental standards. every member state has the obligation to register for the first time any vehicle that received the european type-approval on the basis of the certificate of conformity issued by the vehicle manufacturer. this registration is the official authorisation for use on public roads and enforces the different introduction dates of different vehicles’ requirements. during a vehicle’s lifetime it may be subject to re-registration, due to a change of ownership, or a transfer to another member state for permanent use. provisions on a vehicle registration procedure should be similarly introduced to ensure that vehicles which constitute an immediate risk to road safety are not used on roads.
in writing. − i support this report as it simplifies and improves the registration procedure for cars and other vehicles. it will benefit my london constituents by making it easier for them to use their vehicles across borders and for this reason i support the report.
mr president, i am concerned that the proposal of these new measures on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles is in the form of a regulation and not a directive. once again, what works in one member states may not always work in another. in the uk, our roads are already among the safest in europe and, whilst i repeat that ensuring the highest standards of road safety possible across the eu must be a priority, we must also ensure that the legislation provides the flexibility necessary for member states to implement these regimes according to their own requirements. the current version fails this test of subsidiarity and so i hope the text, when returned from committee and council discussions, reflects these concerns.
mr president, in northern ireland, the driver and vehicle agency currently upholds high standards in terms of vehicle testing, inspections and registrations. officers regularly carry out spot-checks on vehicles to ensure roadworthiness. it is worrying therefore that the committee on transport ad tourism’s report would apply minimum standards for how frequently enforcement officers must inspect certain types of vehicles. this type of regulation is wholly unacceptable, as it would remove the flexibility with which inspecting authorities can allocate resources and react to new trends and violations. amendment 51 would also mean that the authorities could not inspect vehicles that have passed a roadworthiness test in the past three months. this would be highly restrictive, potentially undermining road safety. this report would also make tractors with a maximum speed of over 40 km/h eligible for roadside inspections. this threatens to place additional operational burdens upon farmers, many of whom use public roads only occasionally and maintain their machinery to a high roadworthiness standard.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. tightening measures on the road-worthiness of commercial vehicles is one way in which the eu can show added value to citizens in a very real way. i ensured, when voting for this report, that vehicles such as tractors were excluded from the new measures, as inclusion would have negatively affected farmers in wales for no benefit in terms of safety.
in writing. − i supported this proposal. i consider that having a clear legal framework in relation to liability for the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles is of the outmost importance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation, which is part of the roadworthiness package. this report requires member states to perform additional, on-the-spot roadside checks on large commercial vehicles and sets minimum standards for these checks. the proposals include a risk rating scheme that is based on the current uk scheme. the aim of the roadworthiness package is to harmonise standards and testing regimes across the eu and to contribute to the eu’s target of halving road deaths by 2020. as well as enhancing road safety, improving the roadworthiness of vehicles can help to reduce air pollution levels. in the uk we already have strict rules on testing the roadworthiness of vehicles (the mot), by harmonising those rules across the eu, this package will mean that british motorists taking their cars abroad can be sure that other drivers are meeting the same standards.
mr president, the possible introduction of roadworthiness testing for tractors and light trailers holds inherent dangers for farmers and businesses across the eu. in northern ireland, smes represent almost 99% of businesses contributing to our economy. many of these enterprises would be significantly inconvenienced as a result of having their trailers subject to regular mot testing. farmers too would face additional operational burdens despite rarely using their tractors on public roads and by and large ensuring the upkeep of their machinery to safe and suitable standards. while it is encouraging that the committee on transport and tourism’s report would exclude light trailers with a maximum mass of up to two tonnes from tests, the decision to place trailer caravans within the scope of the proposal threatens to deter people from partaking in what is a low-cost and enjoyable hobby. the report would also limit testing to tractors used solely for commercial road haulage. while this change represents a welcome improvement, there remains a lack of clarity around whether agricultural contractors would remain exempt. ultimately i believe that, in order to move forward, assurances that vehicles used solely for agricultural purposes will not be tested must be provided.
mr president, ensuring that the vehicles on our roads are as safe as possible and improving eu road safety is, of course, something that is of grave importance. however, i have concerns relating to the proposal to set such common eu-wide minimum standards for vehicle checks in the form of a regulation, rather than a directive. i do welcome the fact that some of the areas of concern within the proposal for periodic roadworthiness tests have been addressed, including the recognition that historical cars should be exempt from this legislation. however, i remain concerned about the proposal to include all light trailers under 3.5 tonnes within the scope of this regulation. these proposals for the testing of light trailers would result in unnecessary burden and costs, in particular for caravan owners in wales, for farmers who transport a small number of animals locally, and – more generally – for smaller micro-business operators who use trailers to transport goods around wales frequently. i hope therefore that all small trailers under 3.5 tonnes can be excluded from the scope when this text is returned to plenary.
mr president, i also welcome the kuhn report today on the roadworthiness package. safety is, of course, paramount on our roads and it should be a priority of this parliament. but, like others in this debate, already, the one area of concern i have and where i disagree with the report is the inclusion of trailers up to 3.5 tonnes in the scope of ministry of transport (mot) testing. as someone who has driven pickups and trailers for many years, i am far from convinced that this is a necessary step or indeed that there is evidence to support the widespread move to mot testing of all trailers under 3.5 tonnes. i believe a simpler and less bureaucratic approach is better implementation of rules on safe loading and securing of cargo and a tightening of the rules on roadside checks and inspections by the police. i hope that in the negotiations this point will be looked at again and, when it does return to parliament, we see 3.5 tonne trailers excluded from mot testing.
mr president, these proposals have created great concern in my constituency in the east of england. they cover powered two- and three-wheelers, light trailers, tractors and older cars. it does seem to be a case of just trying to harmonise because of a political super-state, rather than because of any real need, value or urgency. if you take motorcycles in particular, eu studies actually find that less than 1% of motorcycle crashes are directly caused by defects, so this proposal really is not needed. parliament’s own committee on transport and tourism and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection have rejected these proposals. i feel that this proposal is completely disproportionate to any problems it claims to solve. it goes against subsidiarity, which should enable national measures for national road safety priorities, and it really does seem to be another case of looking for a solution to a problem that does not exist, and merely increases cost and bureaucracy.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that in this report it has been recognised that historical cars should be exempted from the scope of eu legislation.
in writing. − we voted in favour of these reports today even though we were disappointed that towed caravans would not be exempted from the roadworthiness test. my view is that all trailers under 3.5 tonnes, including caravans, should be exempt from the mot test, along with tractors that are solely working in an agricultural capacity. i was successful in getting support for the tractor exemption, and for an increase in the threshold so that trailers under 2 000 kg would not be subject to mot testing. however i could not get a majority to agree with me on exempting caravans. in today’s vote the uk labour delegation voted against the inclusion of caravans because we feel there is very little evidence to indicate that the present system is not working and because most caravanners take great care in looking after their vehicles. we voted in favour of the reports as a whole because we do believe that improving vehicle checks will help to save lives on the roads in europe. i also believe parliament has got it right with the mandatory testing for motorcycles. this is already the case in the uk and evidence shows that countries who have introduced tests for motorcycles have seen a positive effect on safety.
in writing. − i supported the roadworthiness package as i believe that on the whole it will enhance road safety across the eu. i am disappointed that we lost amendments to exempt caravans from mot testing as i feel there is little evidence to indicate that the present system is not working. however, i am pleased that we managed to secure support for the tractor exemption and for an increase in the threshold so that trailers under 2 000 kg would not be subject to mot testing. i supported calls to make motorcycle testing obligatory across europe and i am glad that other countries will now be required, as is the case in the uk already, to test regularly motorcycles. i believe the roadworthiness package will improve safety for vehicles on our roads and for that reason i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report from the roadworthiness package sets common minimum standards on vehicle technical checks (the mot in the uk) as well as for training and skills for inspectors. all eu member states already enforce mandatory inspections on the roadworthiness of vehicles at specified intervals but this proposal aims to ensure that the timing and quality of these checks is consistent across the eu. the new rules will not lead to significant changes for motorists in the uk as they are largely based on existing uk standards. the proposal also includes measures to help combat mileage fraud. by setting these minimum standards, the aim of the roadworthiness package is to improve environmental protection and road safety, contributing to the eu’s target of halving road deaths by 2020. although i supported the package overall, i joined other labour meps in voting in favour of an amendment to exempt caravans and trailers below 3.5 tonnes from the rules on the basis that this would be an additional financial burden for families and businesses, while having a very limited impact on road safety.
mr president, as one of the many meps in this chamber with a scientific background, i am hugely concerned about the quality of scientific analyses in many of the commission’s proposals. good legislation should be based upon solid evidence and data; it should not rely purely on political negotiation over months and months in order to get it right. i am glad that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has managed to negotiate a positive outcome to this important report on water policy, but i would have preferred that a file as complicated and scientifically technical as this had started from a more solid scientific and evidence base. lessons need to be learnt.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i do not believe that the eu should have ultimate control over water policy.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur who believes that no additional new substances should be included in the list of priority substances. although adding and removing substances is undeniably a prerogative of the co-legislators, it is important to respect the scientific integrity and transparency of the technical prioritisation process pursued by the commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this revision to the legislation that sets limits for certain polluting substances in water to ensure they remain within a safe level. the new legislation will set limits on substances such as metals, biocides, plant protection products and dioxins, which could potentially harm human health if present in water in large quantities. earlier plans to include limits on three pharmaceutical products were dropped after concerns were raised that the environmental benefit was unclear and the proposals would have incurred significant costs for water companies; for the time being these will be placed on a watch list.
in writing. − i voted for this report in which the commission proposal amends provisions on certain state aid rules.
mr president, in light of the economic crisis we are currently facing across europe, coupled with youth unemployment being at an all time high, it is right to explore any initiative that encourages the growth of the maritime economy. in my own constituency of northern ireland, the coast and marine areas have an important connection with our social, cultural and economic development. the marine environment is a key asset in terms of biodiversity, recreation, tourism and the transportation of goods and services to and from our ports. northern ireland’s fishing fleets harvest and land produce with a value of around eur 56 million at home and abroad. our aquaculture sector contributes a further eur 10 million and our processing sector adds eur 70 million to the value of landings. opportunities for sustainable growth in this sector have been well documented, as well as the potential for fishermen to use their assets and experience to exploit opportunities in other developing offshore industries.
mr president, inherent in europe’s marine life is diversity. a policy that works for the beautiful coasts of west wales that i call home may be completely different to one which works off the north wales coast, let alone that of scotland, spain or cyprus. this diversity benefits the whole country and beyond, but it requires specialist knowledge to understand and manage. by its nature, the diversity we are keen to preserve requires subsidiarity. this report, however, goes beyond the concept of cross-border cooperation and coordination that could be of benefit. i worry that it could end up doing more harm than good by forcing a one-size-fits-all approach when subsidiarity, to include regional flexibility where appropriate, has to be the rule. as previous speakers have also highlighted, european diversity extends to our seas. therefore flexibility – not prescription – in any blue growth strategy is important.
in writing. − this is yet another example of unwanted cfp-related policies. fisheries should remain our national government’s competence and the sooner we abandon the common fisheries policy as a whole, the better for the uk, wales and welsh fishermen.
in writing. − i supported this report and generally agree with the continuing efforts to enable joined-up thinking in the marine economy. the seas around europe offer huge potential for all our coastal regions and can act as a catalyst for growth and recovery. nevertheless, i am mindful of the failures to date of the cfp and believe that in all its maritime initiatives the eu must recognise the important regional differences in europe’s maritime areas.
in writing. − if blue growth sectors are to develop and fully realise their potential to contribute to europe’s economy, strategic planning at eu level is needed to ensure coordination and synergies between existing policies and the development of new initiatives and instruments. in order to take full advantage of the opportunities provided by blue growth, public and private sector operators must join forces and work in a single political framework that takes into account the eu’s new priorities.
in writing. − in the uk alone, marine industries and maritime services contribute gbp 17 billion a year to the uk’s economy – clearly the value and potential of this sector cannot be underestimated. i commend the blue growth initiative for its focus on growth, jobs and competitiveness. the report efficiently identifies the necessary workforce skills required for heightening the success of this developing industry and the proposed measures go far in encouraging employment, while regulating and enhancing the blue economy. however, while this report must be applauded for its powerful promotion of innovation and entrepreneurship, i am extremely apprehensive about the eu-level coordinated and integrated approach to governance which is likely to emerge, should the report’s proposals be implemented. it must be said that while i am undoubtedly in favour of creating sustainable economic growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, i simply cannot support a report which strives so strongly for a top-down approach.
in writing. − i supported this own-initiative report on blue growth. however, i regret that the report presents the view that the marine environment is only a section for consideration within blue growth, instead of presenting a healthy marine ecosystem as a fundamental prerequisite within which any other sectoral ‘blue’ policies operate. this disagreement with the report is a fundamental one, but i hope this issue is better addressed in other legislative proposals (e.g. on maritime spatial planning). whilst amendments which called for a ban on arctic oil and gas exploration, and for ship emission limits, were not supported in tran, most of the report is fine, underlining the importance of key issues for the green/efa group: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on an eco-system approach; using the precautionary principle to assess proposals; protecting sustainable maritime sea basin strategy and developing island and coastal tourism. the report goes on to call for the development of opportunities for ‘clean ships’ that are more energy-efficient and produce less emissions, the construction of a north sea offshore grid for renewable energy, more efficient use of resources and enhanced recycling policies (as an alternative to sea mining), and notes the employment opportunities this approach presents.
in writing. − i supported this report which outlines the need for economic development and job creation in the maritime sector. i support the need for greater synergies between different economic sectors in order to enhance so-called ‘blue growth’ and believe that there is major untapped economic potential in maritime and costal sectors. i fully agree that there needs to be a new political approach to the maritime economy, particularly when it comes to jobs. the promotion of nautical and maritime careers needs is important if we are to get skilled workers to carry out jobs in the sector, such as blue energy, aquaculture, tourism and marine mineral extraction. maritime and coastal tourism are also highly important for the economy – europe’s seas have the largest share in the world market for yachting tourism and cruise shipping worldwide is growing in popularity. however, if this sector is to continue to grow, certain obstacles such as lack of innovation, diversity and infrastructure will have to be overcome. i believe that a ‘blue growth’ initiative will help costal regions achieve their true potential and help them to continue contributing to the economy.
mr president, my group did not vote for this report and, yes, there are some great cooperatives but not every supermarket is a waitrose. and, whilst i support cooperative organisations, there are other ownership models which are important too. this report goes far too far: it calls for company laws to be re-written and for national competences to be overruled. the report even suggests taking money out of the eu budget and using it to take companies away from their shareholders. for the european economy to thrive, we need investors and, quite rightly, sometimes those investors also want to be shareholders. if we undermine the shareholder model, we could cause great uncertainty at a time when our fragile economy needs no more damage from badly-thought-out political legislation written by the left.
mr president, in the past the state has not done a great job of picking winners and losers in the economy. this goes for business models as well as specific companies. dictating company structure and rigid methods of corporate governance could mean we end up in an even worse situation, should that business model prove to have weaknesses in times of stress. in the banking sector there are still those in plaid cymru who claim that the uk cooperative bank has a solid funding base – something that its customers and the bank of england would disagree with, as it is subject to the latest funding crisis in the uk banking sector, forcing its move from a cooperative to a publicly-listed entity to recapitalise its balance sheet. lessons need to be learnt from this example. there is no silver bullet for overcoming the current financial crisis, but i believe we should be supporting a free market economy that can adapt to changing circumstances. it is precisely those sectors of the economy which have more diversity that are going to weather the crisis best. some business models work better than others in different circumstances. we cannot know what challenges we will face in the coming years and should allow companies to work out what is best for them and their customers.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i oppose the regulatory framework it attempts to impose on the cooperative business model.
in writing. − this own-initiative report deals with important issues and correctly highlights the important role to be played by cooperatives. in my own country the scottish government has highlighted the positive evidence of co-operatives’ role in stimulating entrepreneurial culture, innovation and growth. it is right that recognition is given at eu level and that european institutions do their bit to promote co-ops.
in writing. − i supported this report which looks at the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis. this report stresses how cooperatives in the eu play an important role in society, the economy and employment. according to the report, social economy enterprises should benefit from a more coherent legislative framework that is clear and takes into account the wide range of social economy institutions. particular attention is paid to cooperatives active in industry and services. cooperatives and social enterprises offer great benefits to welsh communities and these must be developed and sustained in order to help tackle ongoing issues such as social and economic exclusion in wales.
mr president, ‘innovating for sustainable growth: a bioeconomy for europe’ is a laudable objective, as it is estimated that 22 million people in the eu are employed directly in the bioeconomy. as well as these current jobs, this is an area of huge potential for growth, as this report recognises. science, research and innovation in areas in which we are already world leaders are going to be crucial in the coming years, yet we should not just be thinking about how to attract companies and encourage start-ups in these areas. we should also be looking at what might be seen as historic eu weaknesses and try to provide certainty that we are really overcoming them. our attitudes towards gm and stem cell research will be key to future success. sadly, the scientific world is often held back by populist media scares which lead to ill thought-out legislation here in this house. in new areas of research we need to be very sure that we are being responsible and, where appropriate, explaining the positive aspects to our constituents so that they are aware of the benefits that bioscientific investments can have. bioscience is a passion of mine, and i would hope to ensure that any future legislation actually helps fund those initiatives to gain more jobs in the future.
mr president, this report on the bioeconomy has been much improved compared with what the commission and the rapporteur were originally aiming for. nevertheless, i feel that it could still have been a lot better. i am not against the bioeconomy playing a role in fighting climate change per se. it goes without saying that it is essential that we wean ourselves off our dangerous addiction to fossil fuels, but we cannot say a resounding ‘yes’ to it without ensuring that it actually does contribute to lowering our carbon emissions in a sustainable manner. the eu will not be able to meet its biomass demands in the future and will have to look for stocks from elsewhere. this poses a significant risk to the world’s forests and their biodiversity, and it creates a risk of new land grabs. these are issues that i am sure concern us all.
mr president, i am sure that every member of this house would support the growth of a sustainable and economically viable bioeconomy. however, as usual, the detail of such development is key. i represent a constituency that is one of the most scenic and most beautiful areas of the united kingdom. i am sure that members of this house will have watched pictures of the beautiful fermanagh lakelands during the g8 summit. protection of this environment is absolutely vital. my constituency also has an economy with agriculture at its core. far too often farmers have to contend with policies from these institutions which are contradictory and not suited to the local environment or local farming practices. the rapporteur also focuses on rural development. in my constituency of northern ireland we have a rural development programme funded by the eu, administered by the department of agriculture which should be used to support the agrifood sector and the rural economy. yet instead we have had millions upon millions going to gaelic athletic sports club. that is not how rural development programmes should be targeted.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i oppose the idea of a europe-wide bioeconomy.
in writing. − fossil fuels are damaging and we need to focus on developing more sustainable forms of energy. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which states that the transition to a bioeconomy should be based on the sustainable use of those resources from an environmental, economic and social point of view. the government of wales is committed to sustainable development, although wales does not yet have the necessary powers over energy development.
in writing. − i voted against the calls in this report for use of the public-private partnership formula. i do not consider that this formula has been a success in other sectors and i remain unconvinced that adequate studies have been undertaken to accept uncritically its use in the bioeconomy.
in writing. − over the next 40 years europe will have to address a number of social challenges. the constant increase in the world population, the rocketing growth of demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide mean that europe will have to reflect on the new approach to take in terms of production and consumption, in order to deal with these new requirements efficiently and sustainably. the bioeconomy is a major opportunity to meet those challenges by ensuring not only greater sustainability but also support for rural development, a potential reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, improved sustainability of the production cycle and the spread of industrial innovation along the entire value chain the bioeconomy strategy could be the solution to our dependence on fossil fuels and the road towards smart growth. if it is forward-looking, it could also provide the answer to food security, economic growth and the creation of new jobs.
mr president, of course our group takes a different view of the tavares report. the report was set up in good faith with the central point that we are not targeting the people of hungary. this mandate has been full of instances where member states, including original member states, had to be in this house and have had to have their fundamental rights tested in a very difficult way. and here we are testing another member state and that is difficult, of course it is difficult. however, when we have had a weakening of legal checks and balances, a weakening of the independence of the judiciary, biased electoral reform, and when independent ngos such as freedom house are talking about a deterioration in press freedom over such a short time span that they had never seen before in another member state, we must take this seriously. to return to the tavares report, it is up to us to test the fundamental values of the european union and not to target a member state. this is what we hope we have done in our group in good faith. in doing so we come to the conclusions of the report and we say as a group, it is not about targeting any individual member state but coming to a conclusion. firstly, to ensure that we have an own-initiative report to determine any further modifications that need to be adopted. secondly, to look at the use of article 7(1) of the treaty on european union, and finally to call upon the commission to set up a monitoring mechanism to examine respect for and adherence to union values. all of these things must be done. this is a test of the fundamental values of all member states and not just the targeting of one member state.
mr president, this parliament should recognise the limits of its mandate, and should not try to usurp the role of the other institutions enshrined in the treaties of the union. i have tried to participate objectively in the process of drafting this report, but my feelings, as the ecr shadow on this file, have not changed with regard to the premise. the commission is clearly empowered, as the guardian of the treaties, not us. separating this politically charged house from carrying out what needs to be an objective and balanced evaluation is essential. many members here have lived through the difficult transition from being a former communist country to a fully functioning democracy. joining the european union should be an opportunity to have a partner, not a keeper. some people here have the luxury of coming from a country where democracy and justice have evolved over centuries. others have constitutions carefully crafted for them and some of us do not have a written constitution at all. i had hoped that today would be an opportunity to listen to each other and to find solutions. instead it has been an opportunity for political point-scoring which clearly demonstrates why we should not be doing this at all.
mr president, ms gál says that we are damaging parliament’s reputation. on the contrary, by defending fundamental rights, we are enhancing this parliament’s reputation. therefore i say to the others who said that this is the first time we have done it; it is not. on the contrary, in the year 2000 we warned the austrian government of what it was doing and the consequences for fundamental rights. if we criticise turkey, we should have the courage to criticise ourselves by exactly the same standards. since the fidesz government took office it has repeatedly challenged the rights of minorities, including lgbt people and their families. it is a fact that the fourth constitutional amendment gives a very narrow definition of family. why? in order to exclude single parents, grandparents, their grandchildren, uncles and aunts and, of course, same-sex parents. mr orbán, your government is doing what authoritarian regimes have done in the past. you are attacking the rights of minorities. i tell you this – a european value – all civilised democracies are judged not on how they treat the majority but on how they treat the minorities that make up that majority. in this respect you fail the decent citizens of hungary. (applause)
blue-card question. – i know you speak english, mr protasiewicz, so you cannot blame it on the interpretation, but can i just say to you that the point and the principle that i am putting forward, which i want you to accept, is that we cannot be selective in the interpretation of the defence of principle. just as we defend the principles of freedom of association and respect for minorities in turkey, we should also do it in the european union. do you agree or not?
mr president, the authors of this report seem not to appreciate the irony of their calls for restrictions on freedom of speech in protection of fundamental rights. to justify themselves, they use the emotive term ‘hate speech’. hatred is an ugly word because it is an ugly concept. we know from the experience of france how low the threshold can be. the mere careless choice of words, such as ‘detail’ or ‘debate’, can land you in court. the fn presidential candidate in 2012 is now being prosecuted for drawing parallels between military and migratory occupation. has hungary, under the present government, prosecuted any opposition, presidential or other candidates? has hungary banned any political parties, as belgium did in 2004? has it attempted to ban a political party using evidence fabricated by the security services, as germany did in 2001? has hungary, under the present government, acted like its predecessor in 2006 and sent armed police to attack peaceful demonstrators?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we have discussed individual countries before in this context and in this parliament, but it was condemned then as it should be condemned now. if one takes a look at our programme, where we seem to be spending more and more of our time looking at individual member states and so-called or alleged deficiencies in their internal arrangements, we are doing a couple of things wrong. one is that we are failing to understand democracy at the level of the nation state. we are failing to understand the wishes of the citizens in europe, in our nation states, who can determine their governments – thank goodness – and their parliaments, something that they could not do in many countries only a few years ago. we are also moving further away from the level of cooperation in european terms between member states, for our future and for the future of our children. i condemn it absolutely. this is a matter for the commission. it has always been a matter for the commission. i want the commission to look into these matters, as it does with other member states and alleged deficiencies. i do not know the internal political situation in hungary, but i do understand this: i welcome the fact that their leader has come here to listen to this debate and to put his point of view to us, but please, mr president, in the future agenda of this house can we concentrate on the things that really are important to all of us in europe and allow democracy to operate within our member states without the interference at least of this institution that ought to know better?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would say to mr weber, just to be fair for a moment, mr daul is not present, and he did mention other big players like mr cohn-bendit, but the last time i looked he was not a socialist – well i hope he is not. we have not got him yet, just to be fair for a moment! we have just had the debate on hungary and we know we have been examining their systematic constitutional modifications, which could amount to a serious breach of fundamental rights, but i think we have to make it clear that the issue that we are now addressing, regarding bulgaria, is very different, although it does raise serious concerns regarding institutional reforms and how they affect the eu’s actions in, for example, the fight against corruption, as the commissioner has rightly said. in bulgaria we have what is effectively the wrong person nominated to a very important anti-corruption post, plus a reorganisation of the agency that does not help the fight against organised crime. the security organisation has been empowered with operational and repressive police functions, which risks creating a mixture of police and intelligence powers that has no counterpart in the eu. it risks hampering the good progress made by bulgaria in the framework of the cooperation and verification mechanism, which is the reporting process that particularly focuses on the fight against corruption and organised crime. the s&d are fully willing to analyse and hold debate on bulgaria or any other country where institutional developments like this raise concerns. our group proposed first to enlarge the scope of the hearings already planned by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the wire-tapping scandal, in order to include these questions. we will firmly support further reactions in each and every case of systematic fundamental rights breaches or non-respect of the rule of law. that is why in many recent reports, including the one on hungary, we have proposed an eu monitoring mechanism which we would support and which the commission has set out. so we support this, and i hope that this goes some way to meeting some of the concerns mr weber set out initially. that is the first response from our group. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am not sure what speech you were listening to but i did not say that. what i said was that in bulgaria we have what is effectively the wrong person nominated to a very important anti-corruption post, the state agency for national security, plus a reorganisation of that agency which does not help in the fight against organised crime. that is what i said.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i wonder if you will permit me to gallop through the working day of the average englishman. he wakes up and turns on his taxed television to get the news; he leaves his heavily taxed house; gets in his heavily taxed car; he fills it with heavily taxed diesel. he then gets to work to earn an income which, after income tax, employer and employee national insurance, is reduced by a third. he drives home and stops on the high street for a few articles for the house. his purchases are taxed at 20%. he calls in for a pint, over two-thirds of the cost of which goes in tax. he dreams of a family holiday abroad, but he cannot afford the airport tax. he longs for the day that he can retire, but the politicians will not let him go. we must steal his savings, must we not, through the financial transaction tax? the poor sap does not even know we have nicked it. of course, with the commission’s top income-tax-free salaries and non-contributory pension schemes, it is difficult for you to imagine his distress, is it not? you are not in this game, are you? you do not pay any of this. you do not pay any of this. on a more technical note, i draw the house's attention to my own lunatic committee’s amendment 39 to article 4a on the withdrawal of legal title to untaxed transactions anywhere in the world. this is sugar in the petrol tank, if you will. we are very much looking forward to the vote. we are watching to see which imbeciles commend it. i suspect it will be usual parliamentarian flat-earthers.
mr president, medical practitioners will know the acronym ftt well. it stands for ‘failure to thrive’. the idea of imposing new taxes on european business at a time of economic hardship and rising unemployment has been described as perverse and unacceptable by the former uk chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson. but this is not an economic decision, is it? this is a political project. even christian noyer, governor of the bank of france, stated recently that the ftt posed a very real risk to the economy, confirming the observation by sir mervyn king, the outgoing governor of the bank of england, that even amongst the 11 member states that agreed to press forward, there is not unqualified support. for a financial transaction tax to work, it would have to be global, as its proposer, james tobin, stated, but do we think for one minute that the g20 would be prepared to follow the lead of the people who inflicted the euro area on the world? tomorrow we will vote on whether to allow latvia to buy the last ticket on the titanic. this tax must never be allowed to set sail. it should be strangled at birth.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i also want to thank our rapporteur, sven giegold, for his work on this very important report. it has just been said that these are phenomenally important ucits funds; they have an enormous value. i want to focus then on the two issues which are important to investors and consumers across europe, and that is the limit on performance fees paid by investors to management companies and a cap on bonuses for fund managers. i think we should stick to the proposal as we voted with a majority in committee. investors already pay fixed fees to ucits funds to invest, so performance fees are an additional fee on top and the performance fees are a percentage of the return or profit made on the fund. they are often high, they are not transparent and they vary significantly between funds, making it hard to compare and understand the impact on returns. customer groups argue that performance fees are unfair to retail investors as they disproportionately reward fund managers who perform well in the short term, even if in the longer term they make a loss. let us have a practical example. in the uk black rock absolute alpha fund paid its managers nearly 12.5 million in performance fees in 2010, even though it lost 3.86 % of investors’ money in the two years until 2011. this is in addition to the 1.5 % annual management fees that it takes regardless of the performance funds. that for me is a failure-to-perform fee which i do not think investors should have to pay. so i think these opaque fees reduce investors’ funds and income unfairly. it is a one-way street with benefits to providers and not to investors. just to briefly mention the cap on bonuses. as the rapporteur has said, i think that, together with the performance fees, the bonus culture has fuelled a culture of short-termism across the financial sector, where the focus is on short-term profits instead of long-term investment – and of course ucits were created for long-term investment. these rules will therefore ensure a level playing field across the financial sector, they will ensure that all remuneration in all financial sectors is better aligned with risk, and that is why i believe we should stick to the proposal voted with a majority in committee in tomorrow’s vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we know that the original commission proposal was designed to align the ucits with aifmd and that is quite clearly a good reason to bring it forward. unfortunately the debate has descended around two issues. first of all i would like to thank sven for the cooperation we have had on a number of other issues where i think we found good agreement. on the two issues in hand: the first one relates to the performance fee ban. let us be quite clear: we know how industry will respond. they will simply push up basic salaries, they will find ways of having variable basic salaries, with fixed bonuses and therefore you would have even less alignment between performance and reward. it is far better to actually tackle the issue and to make sure that we look at issues such as deferral, and for bonuses to have a much better way to achieve alignment between performance and reward. on the second issue, i think we can agree that people should not be getting performance fees for when they perform badly. but let us tackle that rather than throwing every single performance fee out of the window and actually not tackling the real issue. let investors and investor managers be rewarded for good choices and good investment but let us make sure that they are not rewarded for bad performance.
mr president, bonuses awarded in the fund management sector are certainly high. it is difficult to justify them morally and it is always tempting to want to do something about them. i am certainly tempted to do so. but we have got to look at this rationally. a restriction on bonuses would inevitably lead to compensatory increases in basic income. that would be worse because, of course, basic salaries – unlike bonuses – cannot easily be reduced to reflect poor performance. should we then restrict incomes in basic salaries? well we could, but then we should logically say that perhaps we ought to limit all people’s salaries. do we really want the eu – or even member states for that matter – to have that kind of power? the real problem which needs to be addressed is the high level of expense ratios of investment funds – the amount paid by investors to the funds. in the united states, equity funds charge an average of 0.64%; in europe most funds charge over 1%.
rapporteur. − mr president, firstly i do want to thank my shadows, in particular philippe lamberts, corien wortmann-kool, wolf klinz and syed kamall for their very constructive cooperation in producing the parliament’s own-initiative report on banking reform. i welcome the fact that we achieved a consensus on the need for european structural reform of the banking sector. it is clear that we need a european framework which mitigates the potential fragmentation of european financial markets as a result of member states introducing their own banking reform laws, including the uk, france, germany and possibly belgium and the netherlands. our proposals of course do not go into the detail of how structural reform should be implemented but instead provide several key principles to feed into the commission consultation process, which finishes on 11 july, and the forthcoming legislative proposal. of course, the key objective of banking reform must be to deliver a safe, stable, effective and efficient banking system that operates in a competitive market economy and serves the needs of the real economy and of customers and consumers. structural reform must stimulate economic growth – much needed growth in fact – by supporting the provision of credit to the economy, in particular to smes and start-ups; it must provide greater resilience against potential financial crises; it must restore trust and confidence in banks, which continue to be low. as the commissioner said, a recent survey found that 86% of the public believe that it will be at least five years before they trust a bank again. structural reform should remove risk to public finances caused by banks being too big to fail and deliver a change in banking culture which too often is dominated by excessive risk-taking in the pursuit of profits. our reform principles focus therefore on reducing excessive risk, ensuring competition, reducing complexity and limiting interconnectedness in eu banks by separating banking activities that are essential for the real economy from risky trading and investment activities, ensuring the essential retail activities continue uninterrupted by problems caused by the investment arm, ensuring that risky trading activities do not benefit from implicit guarantees or subsidies or the use of insured deposits or tax payer bailouts, by ensuring those activities bear the risk and costs of the activities. to those critics of reform who claim we are breaking up the universal banking model i would respond that nowhere in this report or in the high-level group report is there any proposal for a ban on banks carrying out any activities in investment services, market making or underwriting. corporates will still have access to services provided by universal banks. what we are arguing for is a structured and responsible universal banking model to ensure banks deliver funding to the real economy. of course banking will always have risks, but ultimately those risks have to be borne and in a free and fair market economy they should not be borne by the taxpayer providing a very generous safety net. retail customers have no alternatives to their high street banks for access to essential payment, deposit and credit services and i would argue as legislators we have an overriding economic, social and political imperative to avoid disruption to the continuing provision of those services. structural reform through separation therefore must be a part of the reform process. of course i would have wanted a more ambitious reform of banking structures. i would have wanted to enable full and legal separation where necessary, to make the socially vital part safer but ultimately this reform debate is more than the question of tackling the complexity of retail investment structures. it is also about the broader reforms of the culture of compensation around bonuses, it is about injecting competition into the banking system, it is about ensuring lending for growth, giving consumers the right to switch accounts. i am satisfied that this report now gives the green light to the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal and it does indeed demonstrate that parliament supports the need for an eu framework for structural reform and as such i am grateful to my shadows and colleagues for supporting this report in tomorrow’s vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all, can i thank the rapporteur for achieving a good cross-group consensus on some of the issues. i think we all agreed that nearly six years after the collapse of northern rock in the uk, and nearly five years after the collapse of lehman brothers, we still have not tackled the fundamental problem. yes, we have created all these new european supervisory agencies and we have created european supervisory architecture, which we like to boast about, but we have not tackled the fundamental problem that if a bank went bust tomorrow it would still want taxpayers’ money to bail it out. this should have been job number one. we have not done that and we are coming late, as phillipe lamberts said, but at least we are tackling this issue now. it was good that across parliament we were able to achieve a principled approach. there are three particular issues that i am especially pleased that we managed to get agreement on. the first was no taxpayer bailout, and, where there is taxpayer bailout because of politics or for whatever reason, let us make sure we are not using deposit guarantee schemes or anything else from the retail side to subsidise investment banking. let us make sure that when a bank collapses, people can still continue to take their money out and pay their bills so you do not get civil unrest. the second issue is the issue of director liability. i have no objection to people earning lots of money if that is what banks want to pay them and shareholders pay them, but when they fail they must be prepared to pay the price of failure. thirdly, we have to tackle the issue of accounting standards. let us ensure that no longer do banks put profits up front and not make provision for losses. they should make those provisions for losses now.
rapporteur. − mr president, thanks to everyone that participated in the debate. i want in my defence to say that i produced an ambitious report. i did not produce a british proposal. in fact this week i shared a panel with john vickers, who is the author of the vickers reform proposal, and he categorically said that vickers was never designed to apply to the entire eu banking sector. so let us not argue over whether we need a uk, a german, a french or a dutch proposal. we have a consensus that we actually do need a european framework, because we need a european framework to allow member states to implement their national reforms on equal principles which should not be a race to the bottom. diversity is a strength, i agree with the commissioner on that. but it should not be an excuse for a weak or cosmetic reform at eu level. i know that some have feared that the reform would be costly; i presume costly for banks. but the fact is that the costs up to now have been borne by depositors and they have paid too high a price for the mistakes and the risks taken by the banking sector. to those who say, as mr kamall said, that the reform comes too late, i would say: better late than never. we will have a big debate on the legislative proposal and that, i believe, is the time to get the details right. we will have the knowledge from the impact assessment; we will have the feedback from the consultation. so i look forward to working with the commissioner to make sure that we get a good and effective structural reform proposal based on the principles that we have laid down in our report and which, i hope, will receive a majority from this parliament in tomorrow’s vote.
mr president, if anyone needed evidence of how inefficient the eu institutions are, then the seven years it has taken to finalise a revision of the olaf regulatory framework is surely proof enough. it seems that even when agreement has been reached among institutions there is need for further amendments. however, the most important issue here today is the independence of olaf, which this framework actually fails to put right. the anti-fraud office is primarily aimed at avoiding fraud and corruption affecting eu funds. it should there be, by its very definition, independent of the institutions involved in handling those funds – notably the european commission, but also the european parliament and the european council. olaf should report directly, without eu intermediaries, to the european citizens who fund the eu budget, and its regulation must not be subject to any politics.
rapporteur. − mr president, there are very few members in the chamber tonight but those members who are here are obviously very passionate about the subject being debated tonight. although i do feel sometimes that there are some members – not the ones in the chamber – who sometimes forget what pif is all about. it is all about looking at the extent to which eu funds and revenue are at risk of fraud and this, of course, is a very important topic for eu taxpayers. sometimes we are also guilty of not recognising when there are improvements. in 2011, for example, reported fraud was down by 35% and the financial impact of fraud was down by 37%. and recovery rates also improved, from 46% to 52%, although in all these areas of course there is room for further improvement. we should also recognise that 94% of the eu budget is spent by member states – and therefore it is not surprising that most fraud is committed at member state level. that is why my report does call for a full evaluation by the commission of the shared management system. i also find it surprising that some member states have very high levels of fraud and some member states report no fraud at all. so obviously individual member states are using different ways to measure and to deal with fraud in their own countries. for example, conviction rates range from 14% to 80%. therefore, in my view, there are things the commission could do to improve matters. they could monitor control systems in member states, standardise the definition of fraud in member states, establish a uniform reporting measure, consider the lack of harmonised criminal law across member states, promote greater transparency – which is called for in my report and many other reports from this parliament – and of course it could try to improve cooperation and coordination between member states in tackling these issues. when we look at the figures for individual elements within the budget, once again we see the need to improve the situation in cohesion policy and in agriculture. these two remain the two highest areas of fraud and error – and of course we should always point out that there is a difference between fraud and error. but there are other areas within the budget as well, like the external action service, which need some improvements. there is also the issue of revenues. we should not forget the issue of revenues. it is estimated that eur 1 trillion per year is lost to tax evasion and tax avoidance. that is the equivalent of eur 2 000 for every citizen in the european union. although some progress has been made in vat and customs, in cigarette and tobacco smuggling, some further progress still needs to be made, and unfortunately the council on many occasions blocks that progress. for example, they are currently blocking two vat directives and i call on the council to unblock those initiatives as soon as possible and other initiatives as well. for all of us this is an important topic. it is vital that every possible euro, indeed every possible cent, in the eu budget is spent on promoting jobs and growth. do we not need it? therefore i welcome most of the amendments put down by colleagues for tomorrow’s vote. not all, of course: we are not going to agree on everything, but i welcome most of them because i believe that what we are doing tonight, this debate and this vote tomorrow, should reassure taxpayers that this parliament takes the topic of tax and tax fraud and fraud in general as a serious issue, and indeed others should do so as well, particularly member states.
rapporteur. − mr president, can i thank colleagues for the debate and for the amendments. i will be accepting most of the amendments put down by colleagues, including some by the greens and one by mr skylakakis as well. i wanted to reassure colleagues that i have no intention of watering down the report and that is why i intend accepting most of the amendments. indeed, i hope that my report demonstrates to parliament and the citizens that members of the european parliament are taking the issue of fraud very seriously. but i would say that there has been some progress – the figures pointed out by myself and other colleagues show there has been progress – and i wanted to thank the commissioner as well for giving us an update on some of the initiatives that the commission is undertaking about having a proper definition of fraud, about the vat directive, the action plan and the strategy for dealing with cigarette smuggling, etc. but i think there is also a consensus within parliament that further progress is required. further progress is needed by olaf, and colleagues have mentioned that in the debate tonight; further progress by the commission is needed, particularly on the coordination and harmonisation of reporting and dealing with fraud; and on recoveries, although the figures are improving further progress is definitely needed there too. of course more needs to be done by the member states as well, particularly on the issue of tax evasion and tax fraud. at every summit of member states they always say they want to tackle tax evasion and tax fraud, but very little action has taken place. so i think we all have a duty – the commission, olaf, member states, this parliament – to show that we take the issue of tackling fraud seriously and i would hope, and indeed i am sure, that tomorrow when we have our vote in this parliament, we will demonstrate that we do take the issue very seriously.
president-in-office of the council. it is a great honour for me to represent lithuania for the first time as its incoming presidency. so i thank you for this opportunity to speak to you in this honorable hall. mr. president, this opportunity to address you brings me particular pride and happiness. on one level, i am here to present to you the priorities of the lithuanian presidency over the next six months. but for me, and for all lithuanians, this moment carries much more resonance and symbolism. for it was here in the european parliament, more than two decades ago, that lithuania's cry for freedom was first heard and with your ringing endorsement transmitted to the world. it was here that we began our journey from regained statehood to full-blown membership of the european union, a journey that we completed in scarcely a decade. today, lithuania returns to parliament proud of the path it has taken, confident of its european choice and ready to put all its efforts into building a european consensus for a better, stronger, more united future together. then, as now, this parliament has played a vital role in representing all the different interests of our diverse societies. moreover, throughout its history, the parliament has been the body which, through open and honest dialogue, has represented our shared european values. twenty-three years ago, those values of peace, democracy and prosperity seemed a distant dream for all lithuanians. now, they are our reality. and it is our duty to make them a reality for every european citizen: north and south, east and west. i would like to pay tribute to the outgoing irish presidency. they have been exceptional colleagues, a joy to work with, and can be proud of their considerable achievements in office. that said, i do not mind admitting that in embarking on our first presidency of the council, i should have preferred not to be starting from where in europe we find ourselves now. we are reaching the end of the legislative cycle before next year's european elections. that means for all of us, and in particular for the current trio of successive council presidencies, an exceptionally heavy workload to share with you. people look to the parliament and the council to take decisions that create jobs and keep europe's economies on a steady path of growth. after suffering five years of economic hardship, people are justifiably impatient for results. which leaves us with a lot of decisions to take in a short period of time. this is not a matter of closing legislative files. it is about opening up opportunities for our citizens. only by ensuring europe's financial resilience, improving its competitiveness and boosting growth can we create jobs and restore public trust in the european project. i firmly believe that this is within our grasp if we all work together, if we all share responsibility and all take timely action. member states and european institutions alike. delaying key decisions further is not mere postponement. it is the failure of leadership to offer solutions that risks undermining the very essence of our project. the council and parliament exist to show the way forward. that is why we were nominated, elected, empowered by our people. i say this to you as the leader of a country who knows all too well the heavy price paid for making hard choices, but also one who understands the advantages that come from making these difficult decisions when they need to be made. the resolve shared by people right across my country now makes lithuania's economy the fastest growing in europe. i also speak as the representative of a country that draws its strength from unity. europe has invested heavily in developing its common market. it is both the widest and the deepest area of free movement for goods, services and people anywhere in the world. europeans are mostly free to go wherever they want within the european union to live or to work. exercising this right, over 15 million europeans have moved across borders to study, to take up employment, to enrich their own and all our lives. despite the economic crisis, europe still enjoys a higher gdp than any other region in the world. more than on any other continent, europe's economy is still powered by small and medium-sized enterprises. we are still a leading trading power, accounting for about 20% of total world trade. europe continues to be the biggest investor and the destination of choice for foreign investment from outside. and the eu and its member states account for half of all global aid. europeans are responding to the needs of others. our people are delivering. now it's our turn to deliver to them. over the next six months, by all means let us discuss and share our concerns. but let us also deliver. it is only real outcomes that will demonstrate our commitment to the causes of democracy, peace and prosperity the fundamentals of the treaty on european union. that is why the lithuanian presidency is inviting all member states and institutions to focus on building a credible, growing and open europe. that is the framework for our priorities. we need a credible europe. because credibility is essential for a stable economy and this task falls equally on the presidency, on parliament, on the commission and on all member states. credibility is about finding the political will to take responsible decisions and then to implement them. credibility also means proving our democratic legitimacy through actions in the interests of all our citizens. credibility also means taking the necessary decisions now, not postponing them. even unpopular decisions. i know. credibility is about finding the way to work together including through closer coordination of our economic and budgetary policies. the parliament and the council have already reached agreement on the single supervisory mechanism. we adopted the two-pack and the six-pack. in march last year, 25 member states signed up to the fiscal compact, pledging themselves to strict limits on structural budget deficits and to a gradual reduction of debt levels. the time has come to implement all those commitments and decisions. the council, parliament and the commission must now work hand in hand to get on with building a true economic and monetary union. and we need to achieve a functional banking union as well. that is why the lithuanian presidency will make efforts to make as much progress as possible in the negotiations on the single resolution mechanism, ensuring that both the euro and non-euro area member states are able to contribute to and benefit from effective economic governance. so growing europe is an overwhelming task for everyone. restoring credibility to the eu is a first step towards improving the general health of the european economy. although we have already made significant progress, much still remains to be done. but to regain the trust of our people we need to deliver sustainable growth. only with growth-oriented policies can we tackle unacceptably high levels of unemployment, especially among young people. every unemployed man or woman, young or old, holds within them a story. a story of struggle and of unfulfilled dreams. that is why the lithuanian presidency will spare no effort in facing up to the urgent and, in an ever more present way, dangerous issue of unemployment. we shall place a relentless focus on creating jobs. invoking the youth guarantee scheme, we shall strive to find new ways to create conditions which boost employment opportunities for young people in particular. the key to unlocking growth and jobs is our common services market. we have made significant progress since adoption of the services directive, but quite a few barriers still persist. to this end, the lithuanian presidency will try to work on legislative initiatives that are intended to create the right framework for crossborder workers. growth must not only be job-rich, but also environmentally friendly. and vice versa. i'm not going to lie. our climate policies should be based on a careful assessment of their impact on the competitiveness of our industries. why? why? the lithuanian presidency will lead the eu's preparations for the annual un climate change conference this year, which should allow us to make progress towards reaching a new global agreement by 2015. a serious commitment by all countries at global level is essential to ensure that competitiveness and environment policies complement and do not contradict each other. a better-functioning internal market will generate stronger growth. since its creation, the internal market has been the eu's greatest economic success. it has created millions of jobs. it has fostered more competition, at more affordable prices. just as an example, let's take energy. according to the commission, if the european union becomes a fully integrated market, it could save as much as eur 35 billion a year in electricity alone by 2015, in comparison with 2012. today, our citizens and businesses pay far too much for their energy. that makes our economy less competitive and leaves consumers with less purchasing power. the lack of an internal market in energy opens up an energy security vacuum. which is why the parliament, the council and the commission recently agreed on rapid action to address these energy challenges. we agreed that the internal energy market must be completed by 2014 and that no member state of the european union should still be isolated from european gas and electricity networks by 2015. this commitment must remain the cornerstone of our energy agenda. so the lithuanian presidency will work to speed up all efforts in this area. we shall closely monitor the proper implementation of previously agreed measures and legal frameworks, including the third energy package in particular. but it is also lithuania's firm conviction that more funds need to be directed towards creating a modern energy infrastructure across the european union. so we shall devote special attention to the task of agreeing a european-wide list of projects of common interest this autumn which can benefit from the connecting europe facility. we will also work to develop the external dimension of the european union's energy policy, an essential element for completion of the internal energy market. as long as the internal market in energy, services and the digital economy remains incomplete, european citizens will have reason to question the value of the union. that is why the lithuanian presidency will devote efforts to completing the single market act i and advancing the single market act ii initiatives. the digital market and the implementation of the services directive will also be a great priority for us. reducing the cost of rolling out the infrastructure for broadband and e-identification could transform the way businesses operate across the eu. so we shall advance the e-procurement and e-invoicing initiatives. these are key to more efficient public administration and improved competition across the single market. of course, a digital economy will always elude us if we cannot deliver cyber security. it is high time we stopped having to catch up with this challenge and instead got ahead of it. with their wisdom and long experience, the honourable members will no doubt be saying to themselves that the priorities i have outlined so far risk taking longer than six months to be fulfilled, but i make no apologies for soaring ambitions. those ambitions are founded, in part, on the belief that, before next may's european elections, we have a shared interest in demonstrating to the voters of europe how much has been achieved during your current mandate. after political agreement on the mff and i hope you will support it in the vote after my speech today we can move forward together to adopt all the budget-related legislative proposals before us by the end of this year. i hardly need to remind you that these include multiannual programmes like the youth guarantee scheme, horizon 2020, and cohesion spending all essential programmes for investment, growth and jobs. this is the burden of responsibility that all of us member state governments and institutions share together. let us not fail the people of europe. it gives me great pleasure today also to welcome our enlargement and efforts for an open europe, to congratulate the new 28th member state of croatia. the people of croatia should take pride in their successful efforts to achieve membership. the conditions of membership are, by design, challenging. those who overcome the challenges are those who see the european union as open and ready to both give and to receive. europe has always been at its best when it has been an open europe. a europe that has unfailingly fought for peace, democracy and human rights. a europe which, after 50 years of conflict and division, has successfully reunited the continent. these efforts were recognised by the award of the nobel peace prize - an award which inspires us to promote the same values beyond the european union's current borders. it is because an open europe is a core principle of our union that the lithuanian presidency will strive to achieve free trade arrangements with european trade partners. our attention will focus on fta negotiations with japan, our mediterranean neighbours and the united states. at the same time, we shall seek closer integration between the european union and its eastern partners. those partners who have made their european choice must know that they too are welcome, when they are ready, to join our family. i am keen that november's summit in vilnius should be seen as a summit of opportunity for both the european union and its eastern neighbours. i earnestly hope that the vilnius summit can mark substantial progress in achieving the mutually desired aim of political association and economic integration between the european union and its eastern neighbours. in this, as in other respects, the lithuanian presidency will want to work closely with all the institutions of the european union, and of course this parliament in particular. in our inevitable preoccupation with the economic challenges that face us, we risk forgetting the fundamentals of what the european union is about. our union is about values. it serves, first and foremost, to make people's lives better. this is the european year of citizens, underlining our responsibility to show our people that the european union is credible, that the european union can grow and that it remains open to others in the years to come. it is our shared duty to lead by example. it spares no effort in putting in place solutions which create the conditions for people to be able to exercise their freedoms and fulfil their potential. i take this opportunity to appeal to the distinguished members of the european parliament for their help in steering the ambitious agenda of the lithuanian presidency safely to harbour, because the key to the success of our common endeavour is close and efficient cooperation between our respective institutions. european citizens are impatient for results like never before, while the outlook remains stormy. but lithuania is well prepared for the challenge, to chart a way through. and with your help, we can reach our destination successfully together. let's get on with the job together from today. thank you very much for your attention. i'm ready later to answer your questions. (applause) thank you very much.
president of the european commission. − mr president, before starting my speech let me very spontaneously add my congratulations to the congratulations you have expressed to my good friend jerzy buzek. congratulations! let me congratulate lithuania, and president grybauskaitė personally, on taking up for the first time the rotating presidency of the council. i know from having worked with president grybauskaitė for five years – not six months, but five years – in the commission, how strongly committed she is to the european project and this was recognised by the charlemagne prize which was rightly awarded to her this year. it is also the first time that a baltic country assumes this responsibility. i would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to lithuania and the other baltic states which, from the very beginning, have linked their regained independence and freedom to the european project. the lithuanian presidency takes over at a moment when all our focus must be on delivery. it is the last full presidency of the council before the european elections, so working closely with parliament will be vital in order to finalise a number of important files. there is no time to waste, and there is a lot of work on the table. following the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework, there will be a number of related sectoral proposals which are now in the pipeline. this is essential to be able to apply the new programmes as of the beginning of 2014. we count too on the lithuanian presidency’s support in overseeing the national part of the 2013 european semester, including the first implementation of the two-pack – we will be reviewing national budget plans from october – and in moving forward the work on deepening economic and monetary union. the commission will come with legal proposals on ex-ante policy coordination and on the competitiveness and convergence instrument, on which i hope we can make progress soon but that will require a lot of management. up until now, there has been broad support for the general principles but a reluctance to really engage with the specifics. we will also present a proposal for a single resolution mechanism next week already, for adoption before the end of this mandate. some areas of work for the next six months are the result of recent momentum and we should not lose this momentum. on taxation, following the may council and also the g8, there is room to make further progress, for example on savings taxation and the fight against tax fraud or on the new proposal on administrative cooperation. we need to agree on concrete commitments and timelines regarding tax havens and aggressive tax planning, as proposed by the commission. we support the fact that the lithuanian presidency has made completion of the internal energy market by 2014 one of its first priorities. i know, president grybauskaitė, your personal commitment to this file and how important is the work that we have been pursuing to do everything we can to avoid the baltic countries being seen as an energy island in the european union. i think it is important to note that the commission will report on developments in this field, the internal energy market, already in early 2014. so your focus comes at the right time. as we discussed yesterday, all means at european level are now mobilised against youth unemployment. the implementation of the youth guarantee schemes and the adoption of the youth employment initiative will need to be carried through. progress on the compact for growth and jobs and correct implementation of the country-specific recommendations under the european semester will be crucial to getting europe back on track for growth. at european level, finalisation of the remaining proposals under the single market act i and convincing progress on the single market act ii will be key. the commission will also propose legislation to complete the single market in telecoms. in this context, let me highlight another element of the commission’s thinking that will help make sure that promoting structural reform and pursuing fiscal consolidation are mutually reinforcing. we need to promote margins for investment for growth, in full respect of the stability and growth pact. so, following its commitments in the blueprint for a deep and genuine economic and monetary union as well as in the two-pack, the commission has explored further ways within the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact to accommodate non-recurrent public investment programmes with a proven impact on the sustainability of public finances made by the member states in the assessment of their stability and convergence programmes. i want to announce today that, when assessing the national budgets for 2014 and the budgetary outcomes for 2013 we will – again, in full respect of the stability and growth pact – consider allowing temporary deviations from the structural deficit path towards the medium-term objectives set in the country-specific recommendations, on a case-by-case basis. such a deviation must be linked to national expenditure on projects co-funded by the european union under structural and cohesion policy, trans-european networks or the connecting europe facility, with a positive, direct and verifiable long-term budgetary effect. vice-president olli rehn is writing today to his colleagues, the finance ministers, and to this parliament to explain our approach in detail, as agreed in the two-pack agreement. the general motto of the lithuanian presidency is ‘credible, growing and open’. i believe moving forward on the proposals i have just mentioned will be indispensable to reaffirming our credibility and to regaining the economic initiative, to getting us back on the path to growth as we should be by the end of the year. other elements of the lithuanian presidency will testify to the european union’s commitment to openness, to our ambition to reach out to our neighbours and to play a leading role in global politics. the eastern partnership in particular will remain high on europe’s agenda, and the eastern partnership summit in november is the right moment to show how important this relationship is and how we can deepen it further. like president grybauskaitė, i strongly believe that we have a responsibility to do whatever is necessary to bring these countries, which are part of europe, closer to the european union. provided these countries are carrying out the necessary political and economic reforms, we should offer them closer economic integration and political association. i hope the vilnius summit will confirm this very important strategic orientation. we are therefore committed to making progress and where possible to concluding ongoing negotiations for association agreements, including deep and comprehensive free trade areas and steps towards visa facilitation and liberalisation with the region. lithuania’s geographical location and history give it a privileged position to strengthen these bonds, and i look forward to cooperating with you on this. in the area of justice and home affairs, we welcome lithuania’s keen interest and engagement in strengthening the eu’s external borders management, visa policy, legal migration and internal security. we are confident that negotiations on the smart borders package adopted by the commission last february will be pursued with vigour under this presidency. progress on the adoption of the new data protection regulation is also crucial, to strengthen the level of protection of fundamental rights in this area and to ensure in the whole european union a strong level of harmonisation and implementation in the member states. the actuality of these days reminds us more than ever of the need for progress in these discussions. in the area of health protection, the commission has welcomed progress made by the council on the proposal to modify the tobacco directive. the lithuanian presidency should now work in close cooperation with parliament in order to be able to achieve an agreement as soon as possible. on climate action, the commission will come with a proposal on the 2030 framework for energy and climate policies before the end of the year. to prepare for the period beyond 2020, work starts right now. strong and committed european political parties are needed for european democracy. as i mentioned in my state of the union speech last year, we need a reinforced statute for european political parties in the run-up to the european elections next year. we came close to concluding this file under the irish presidency. i would therefore urge the lithuanian presidency to treat this file as a priority and i hope we can conclude a deal on this too. we have a responsibility and an opportunity to make the next six months a period of progress and delivery. the lithuanian presidency will be crucial in completing the preparatory work to allow all mff programmes to start on 1 january 2014. we have important pending and forthcoming legislation to conclude in time for the next elections. i am confident that we will manage this if we work together in a truly constructive and pro-european spirit. i know it will be in this spirit of results – concrete results for our citizens – that we will work with you and i wish all success to the lithuanian presidency, all success to our common european project.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is a great pleasure to see a small independent nation taking the presidency. i represent wales, a small nation which is not an eu member state, and we are often told that we are too small to be independent but you have clearly proved that is not the case. your priorities include more democracy and transparency, something that the verts/ale group has consistently worked for. you have talked about the need for a credible, growing and open europe and this will be crucial in the months ahead. we know that people are disillusioned, and we have to prove that the eu is essential to maintain peace and to enable us to tackle the economic, social and climate crises. we have to ensure that all people of all nations in the eu see their role in building a more democratic europe, especially in this year of the citizen. as you say, tackling youth unemployment is critical. the youth guarantee could make a real practical difference if it is delivered in all member states, which is why we are looking to your presidency to monitor progress and to ensure that member states keep to their commitment on this, linked to the youth employment initiative. the two things go hand in hand of course and are linked, too, to the support we have to give to small businesses to help their recovery. we must create jobs and that means investing in the economy, including in cooperative ventures and employee ownership which can actually prevent job losses. on the vilnius summit and signing the association agreement with ukraine, the problems with selective justice must be resolved beforehand. on energy policy we have set energy efficiency targets and we should give priority to achieving them as one of the easiest ways to help achieve energy independence. there are many challenges to be faced, and i wish you success with your presidency.
madam president, you will be the last full chairman of the european council before the next european elections. europe is still in crisis and many people see the eu as out of touch and expensive. madam president, you do not have an easy job, but i would ask you just three things. firstly, embrace reforms. the single market is meant to be a free market, not a protectionist one. we need growth, so why do our policies on energy, the environment and employment make us less competitive, not more? secondly, please respect individual countries. one-size solutions do not work. when we say it is time to stop ever-closer union, it is because we think decisions need to be taken closer to the people they affect. thirdly, please trust the people. next year’s european election in the uk will be the first step towards a referendum. as someone who believes in freedom, i believe it is also right to give people a choice.
mr president, we heard from president barroso that the key objective was delivery, so i am asking the lithuanian presidency to deliver on one specific objective. we are now close to completing the work of reforming the common fisheries policy, but one key element of that is the requirement that every fishery should have a long-term management plan prepared for it. there is a dispute between the council and parliament over the interpretation of the treaty and how such plans should be prepared. the council has agreed that an interinstitutional task force should be proposed to settle this dispute, but nothing has yet happened to take this forward. so i am asking the president-in-office to take this up with the president of parliament, to set up this interinstitutional task force and let us move forward. let us identify the issues, let us negotiate a way forward and let us complete this work before the end of the lithuanian presidency. that way, madam president, you can ensure that a key element of this delivery can be accomplished and we can ensure that there is a better future for europe’s fish stocks and for its fishermen.
mr president, i would like address the president-in-office of the council and say that this is a great day. your country is the first former soviet republic to preside our union. your presidency programme is promising, including in the area of rights, but i urge you, as the country which has set the best example to bring together the baltic states, to deal with official attitudes to ethnic russians. i could cite several cases of concern, but i will limit myself to the case of viktor uspaskich, whose bravura in the ballot has brought consequences catalogued in the wikileaks cables. i do not contest the accusations against mr uspaskich, but i fear that the role of your judiciary requires examination. i suggest, president-in-office, with respect, that if that is my perception then it is your problem. i hope lithuania will satisfy us that due process is paramount.
blue-card answer to vytautas landsbergis. – mr landsbergis, i am not sure if i have understood your question, but i believe that you will be well acquainted with the case of mr uspaskich, and you will be well acquainted also with the revelations that came out in the wikileaks cables and in a book written by a former president of the country. my point is this: much progress has been made in the very difficult area of dealing with people who are ethnic russians, particularly if those people are successful in society, but i hope we can see further progress so that everybody will be convinced that everybody in society in the former soviet republics is treated equally by officialdom.
mr president, as the rapporteur, i feel i must raise the clinical trials regulation with the lithuanian presidency. all stakeholders agree that this regulation is desperately needed. the number of clinical trials carried out in the eu dropped by 25% between 2007 and 2011. that is really bad news for skilled jobs in medical research and bad news for patients who want better medicines. pharmaceutical companies are going elsewhere to trial new drugs. we have to make clinical trials simpler to conduct by reducing bureaucracy and facilitate cross-border research, which is vital for rare diseases, whilst keeping patient safety and good medicine at the heart of the legislation. an extremely important part of that is to increase transparency. we must know trial results, whether they are positive, negative or inconclusive. i have negotiated a balanced parliament position that will make trials more affordable, efficient and transparent and europe a more attractive place for pharmaceutical companies, non-commercial sponsors and patients to take part in clinical trials. the report was adopted unanimously and all political groups supported my mandate to open negotiations with the council. but we are up against the clock to agree this regulation in this parliament. we need to finish negotiations by december. this is really too important for us to lose. i know it is a priority for the lithuanian presidency. what i really want is assurances from you that negotiations will be concluded under your presidency.
mr president, this presidency will be even more inspired by the eu and less by the presiding country because unusually the key player will be the president rather than the prime minister. why? because the president is a former commissioner with an eu mindset. there will be more of the same: single market, banking union, neo-liberal global free trade, talk about growth and unemployment without considering the conditions for the first or the causes of the second. the eastern partnership is of particular interest. we are told that the politically inspired prosecution of yulia tymoshenko has affected relations with ukraine. i look forward to the politically inspired prosecution of marine le pen affecting relations with france. the most important players in the eu project are invited to bilderberg conferences. i wonder whether the lithuanian president was invited this year. if not, why not? i think we should be told.
in writing. − i congratulate emily o’reilly on her election as european ombudsman.
mr president, i voted for the mff resolution, although i disagreed with paragraphs 4 and 6 of the resolution. the mff deal delivers a smaller eu budget which reflects the tough times which we face today and which our citizens live in. as a result of the negotiations, we now have the flexibility to spend that smaller budget more effectively to create jobs, create growth and invest in r&d. we now need to go on and do just that and deliver for our citizens.
mr president, i welcome the political agreement reached on the eu’s multiannual financial framework last week and i would like to thank the irish presidency for their hard work to conclude not only this file, but many other important files such as horizon 2020, the cap and the connecting europe facility. many of my constituents, be they farmers, university researchers or local administrations, are recipients of these eu funds which are allocated to wales, and i hope that now this agreement on the mff has been reached we will finally be able to provide many of them with the certainty and assurances they have been waiting for with regard to future funding. in a time of continuing economic difficulty and all too high youth unemployment, i hope that this agreement will also mean the start of delivery of smarter spending from the eu. having negotiated a budget agreement which reflects the need for reduced eu spending, it is crucial that we now see the eu prioritising targeted spending on areas of growth and job creation which would see the benefits right across the union.
mr president, the presidency of the eu council by the irish republic saw agreement on some of the most difficult issues that face the european union, notably the cap, the cfp and the mff. the agreements reached on agriculture and fisheries policy will have a huge impact on my constituency of northern ireland, and certainly in relation to the cap we are waiting to see the finer detail as to whether it will actually support active food production to meet the growing challenge of global food security. i also welcome the fact that under the irish presidency we have seen a focus put on smes. northern ireland has the largest concentration of smes in the united kingdom. they need support and it is a credit to the irish presidency that they have managed to turn the focus on this sector of the economy. i am also glad that within the mff there is an allocation for peace funding for northern ireland. this has been important in building a future for my constituency.
mr president, at long last the saga that was the negotiation of the eu long-term budget, the mff, has concluded. this house backed away from the frankly ridiculous eur 1 trillion that it had been asking. we agree that eur 960 billion is still a massive figure but it represents, for the first time since multiannual budgeting began in 1993, a reduction in the eu budget. this is something that, as you will know, i have been asking for since i first became an mep. but the public will not be rejoicing. they know that the mff is still full of vanity projects such as galileo and the ineffective european external action service, headed by catherine ashton. while today is a step in the right direction, i fear that parliament will, as in previous years, return like oliver twist to ask for more money. i hope flexibility does not mean a blank cheque book.
mr president, with only one exception, every voice we have just heard has been in favour of higher spending. you have to ask why that is? it has to do with the way incentives have been skewed in the eu process. everybody has an incentive in spending more money: the meps obviously, and the other eurocrats, they are all personal beneficiaries from it as well as believers in the project. the national governments really have no particular incentive to reduce spending. if spending is coming from brussels in their region, they do not want to invigilate the system and reduce the amount going to recipients. there is not really anybody whose job is to keep the budget down and that is the basic structural flaw here. it is not like a national parliament where there is a link between taxation, representation and expenditure and where the parliamentarians have to go back to their constituents, who are also their taxpayers, and explain what they have done with the money. we expect the bouquets when we spend but not the brickbats when we tax because the taxation is done elsewhere and that is why there is this constant structural upward pressure on spending.
in writing. − i voted against this review as i believe that there have been some major shortfalls during the course of the irish presidency, particularly in relation to the transferring of funds and outstanding payments.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the proposed mff deal. we are currently in the grip of a financial crisis in europe; we are already seeing austerity across europe at national level and, due to the huge decrease in the eu budget, we will now also see austerity at european level. the cut in the budget means that there is not enough money to finance many of the key eu programmes which help european citizens. i fear that much of the eu budget will have been spent long before 2020, leaving many programmes unable to be completed. we are already in deficit with the current funding. we will not achieve the eu 2020 targets with this budget deal. wales is a net beneficiary of eu funds. i work for the welsh national interest and that has meant resisting successive uk government attempts to cut regional and agricultural funding. i am glad that we have prevented them once again.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. i am pleased that a key achievement for parliament was to insert a ‘revision clause’ in order to give the next parliament and commission a say on a budget that they would otherwise be stuck with until the end of their terms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of today’s resolution in support of the deal achieved last week on the mff (2014-2020). this agreement will allow much-needed investment in jobs and growth, research and innovation and will provide an increase of gbp 131 million in structural funds for wales over the seven years. this funding will be used to generate jobs, growth and training across the country and i am pleased that wales has managed to avoid a gbp 400m cut in funding that was originally foreseen. voting against this decision would lead to a delay in releasing eu funds and would, without doubt, have a detrimental effect on wales. we need to make sure that eu funds are made available as soon as possible in order to have the greatest impact on people across wales. i am disappointed that i was the only welsh mep to support the deal and the extra funding for wales. i believe this goes against the interests of welsh citizens and the uk as a whole.
in writing. − labour meps voted in favour of today’s resolution in support of the deal achieved last week on the eu’s multiannual-financial framework. we are satisfied that the deal is an acceptable one for uk citizens, with savings being made across the board. this agreement will allow much-needed investment in jobs and growth, research and innovation and structural funding for uk regions. labour meps took the responsible decision to accept this deal – voting against this decision would lead to a delay in releasing eu funds and would, without doubt, have a detrimental effect on the uk. we need to make sure that eu funds are made available as soon as possible to tackle rising unemployment across the eu. for that reason, we are surprised that conservative meps voted against this deal, agreed by david cameron last week, and believe this decision to be a reckless one which goes against the interests of uk citizens.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case as while this technical modification makes things slightly more streamlined, it does so via harmonisation – the concept of which i am against.
in writing. − it was important to support this report because it deals with the mutual recognition of national regulations and the legal framework for adopting global technical regulations. this can only be beneficial for my constituents and is another example of how the eu provides wales with economic benefits and measures such as this which could ultimately save lives.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal the objective of which is to simplify and expedite the procedure regarding the voting of unece regulations by the commission on behalf of the union, hence reducing the delay in the adoption of these acts in the framework of the unece. this is important as the eu vehicle type-approval system currently relies more and more on unece regulations, which are replacing eu legislation (see regulation (ec) no 661/2009 on general safety). in addition, quicker adoption of legislation will allow for faster responses to regulatory requests from the operators.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case as while this technical modification makes things slightly more streamlined, it does so via harmonisation – the concept of which i am against.
in writing. − it was important to support this report because it deals with the mutual recognition of national regulations and the legal framework for adopting global technical regulations. this can only be beneficial for my constituents and is another example of how the eu provides wales with economic benefits and measures such as this which could ultimately save lives.
in writing. − i welcome the draft council decision to amend the council decision on the parallel agreement and am pleased that the european parliament has given its consent. the amendment provides that union positions in relation to technical regulations in the context of the parallel agreement shall be established in the procedure laid down in article 218(9) of the tfeu, and that union positions in relation to proposed amendments to the parallel agreement itself shall be approved in accordance with the procedure set out in article 218(6)(a) of the tfeu.
in writing. − i voted against this report as my party is against the very existence of this fund.
in writing. − i agree with the measures proposed by the commission to be financed as technical assistance which will help simplify the application procedure and enable better access to the relevant data.
mr president, a report by the british government has revealed that fraud committed against the eu budget amounts to eur 5 billion every year. yet, according to the european commission, this figure is much lower – eur 400 million. both figures are unsettling, especially at a time of economic austerity. however, the commission’s refusal to recognise the scale of the problem is yet another indication of why we need a truly autonomous anti-fraud body. i am aware that fraud occurs, both at member state level and at the level of the commission, but instead of blaming the member states for fraud committed on eu funds, the commission first needs to ensure that it has a robust system in place within the eu institutions and in the distribution and accountability of funds. this means redesigning funds so that they are less vulnerable to mismanagement and supporting an effective fight against fraud by ensuring that the investigators are both impartial and independent.
mr president, why is it that the european union is synonymous with fraud and malfeasance in so many member states? why is it that we have gone 18 years without a clean bill of health in the court of auditors report? is it because the european union attracts particularly bad people? i do not think so. of course it attracts some bad people, there are bad people everywhere, man is fallen, but i do not think there is a higher proportion of wickedness in the eu institutions than in any national government. the problem rather is the lack of democratic control and scrutiny, the lack of a link between taxation, representation and expenditure. unlike a national parliamentarian, we in this chamber are not raising money directly and that means that we have a very different attitude when it comes to spending money. the more remote government becomes, the further from the eye of our constituents, the easier it is to engage in nepotism, graft and other forms of malpractice. if we want to reduce fraud we should take decisions more closely to the people that they affect.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case as while my party are in favour of some of the amendments outlined, namely legality checks and periodic reporting, we are against many others, including empowering the commission to take delegated acts, creating a procedural code and so on. we do not oppose the report outright as it does at least demonstrate an attempt by olaf to clean up its act.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal. the amended proposal of the commission for amending regulation (ec) 1073/1999 concerning investigations conducted by olaf focuses on strengthening the procedural rights of the persons concerned by olaf investigations and on enhancing the efficiency of the olaf’s investigations, as well as on improving the cooperation with its partners (eu institutions and bodies, member states, international organisations). the proposal also aims at clarifying the role of the olaf supervisory committee and establishing an exchange of views with the institutions at political level to discuss olaf’s policy priorities.
in writing. − by voting against the proposed amendment to the council’s position, i support the trilogue compromise that aims for an early second reading agreement on the olaf regulation. while the draft new regulation is not perfect, it certainly offers a number of improvements on the current regulation. it will increase olaf’s competence with regard to investigations, the enhancement of procedural guarantees and the protection of fundamental rights. after more than six years of negotiations a good compromise has finally been reached and i am pleased that the common position adopted in council has been voted without amendments and that the legislative process has not been delayed.
mr president, the ucits brand is an eu success story, an example of where good regulation of a product has been copied around the world, allowing people to invest their money in a reliable product that can then fund the wider economy. my biggest concern as we negotiate ucits 5, however, is that all the changes being proposed and these additions should not put additional costs and rules around the funds that will negate their attraction to this broad investor community. at the same time, however, i support the moves towards increased transparency in the funds’ performance pay and fees and if anything i would have liked to have seen us go further in this transparency. investors employ a fund manager instead of investing directly because of the expertise the latter brings to the table. however, if they, as investors, cannot see how these fees are broken down and paid, how can they measure whether they are getting value for money? perhaps the fund manager is performing really well and deserves his payment. however investors need to actually have the information to make their determination. we need to empower the investors.
in writing. − as a welsh mep i am acutely aware of the need to rebuild investors’ trust in the markets. the intention of this report is to help end the ‘gambler’ mentality in the investment fund sector. it will complement eu legislation on capping bankers’ bonuses. in these times of economic hardship, which were brought on in part by an irresponsible financial sector, we must legislate to make the system stronger and less susceptible to being abused.
in writing. − i fully supported the rapporteur on this report. the economic crisis was brought about in large part by the casino mentality in the financial sector and that mentality must be brought to an end. i am therefore disappointed that the right successfully weakened this report, although i am confident that progress can be made in properly regulating the investment fund sector.
in writing. − thanks to the adoption of this report, small investors should be better protected against investment funds that take excessive or unnecessary risks with their money.
mr president, i voted in favour of the back-loading proposal to enable a one-off change to the timing of auctions for the eu emissions trading scheme (ets). it must be said that the emissions trading scheme has been an unmitigated failure as part of the eu’s climate policy. the unending new records for low carbon prices needs to be addressed and uncertainty averted. the carbon prices have now reached an all time low of eur 4, whereas at this stage the price should be around eur 30. whilst i completely disagree with the ets, as an inappropriate tool to fight climate change, we unfortunately have to work with what we have. it is a shame that this report does not go further, but the time pressure for climate change is too great and we need to act now by withholding these units of co2.
mr president, i voted for this essential change to the ets scheme and i hope it will attempt to put a floor back in the carbon market. this is essential if we are to support uk companies who are investing in renewable technologies of the future. these changes are strongly backed by the uk government and the uk companies in this sector, yet it is really disappointing that our conservative colleagues have once again voted against their own government policy and the interest of british industry. thankfully a majority in this parliament voted for the measures, which i hope will support our uk companies in this sector in the future.
mr president, a believer in the free market, i am disappointed in this eu scheme and how it has been managed. the whole point of the emissions trading scheme was to create a way for the market to set a price on carbon emissions and thereby use market tools to aid environmental priorities. the market forces have acted: businesses have priced in the extra charges and financial market participants have created a secondary market which supports these activities. the eu may not be happy with the results, but ultimately if you decide to create market mechanisms you have to deal with the resulting prices. changes in the rules of the game half way through are unfair on those who have made long-term business decisions based upon supply and demand and current prices. i am strongly opposed to any market interventions based solely on price, and the level of uncertainty this gives to all eu projects going forward is unacceptable. if the ets is functioning that badly, we need to start again, not tweak at the edges.
in writing. − i voted against this amended proposal as the committee version reduces backloading and is more restrictive in that it does not just hand a free rein to the commission – we are happy that this report was postponed.
in writing. − i did not vote on any of the amendments since there was no voting option to reject the granting of authority for the commission to extract payments for emissions. whether one voted ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to any amendment would have been to endorse the authority to extract payments. either for current emissions or for earlier emissions, ‘backloading’, or for both. i therefore voted ‘no’ to the whole proposal.
in writing. − i am delighted that this house has today voted in favour of backloading and that we are now back on track to implementing meaningful emissions trading. it is shameful that the uk tories have ignored their own government’s position and have sought to torpedo this progress.
in writing. − i voted for this report. the measure aims to restore the incentive effect of the emissions trading system, which is designed to cut greenhouse gas emissions and tackle climate change.
in writing. − the emissions trading scheme (ets) has helped to make europe a world leader in fighting climate change. however, the reduction in industrial output since the economic downturn, combined with an earlier over-allocation of carbon credits, has led to a dramatic drop in the price of carbon and means the scheme is now in danger of collapse. this report allows the commission to temporarily withhold some permits, with the aim of pushing the price of carbon back up and thereby getting the scheme back on track. a higher price of carbon would be an incentive for investment in clean, low-carbon technology, which is vital if we are serious about tackling climate change. i voted in favour of this report last time it was before parliament, when it was narrowly defeated with the help of uk conservatives voting against their own government. the revised report that was adopted today will allow the commission to delay the release of permits but adds certain safeguards, such as setting a limit of 900 million allowances that can be held back and measures to provide extra support for energy-intensive industries and for a transition to a low-carbon economy.
mr president, with some of the world’s leading pharmaceutical companies and the european medicines agency based in my london constituency, and as a retired doctor myself, i fully support this report. i am also in favour of streamlining and strengthening the eu’s capabilities in responding to potentially devastating transnational health threats such as pandemic flu. i commend the structures that are already in place to coordinate and control communicable diseases across the european union and i am pleased that the commission is striving to formalise and regulate these structures now to include biological, chemical and environmental threats. indeed the report does well to act on lessons learnt from the e. coli bacterial infections of 2011, the 2010 volcanic ash cloud and the influenza h1n1 pandemic in 2009. i also welcome the sufficient flexibility that will allow the united kingdom to respond quickly to protect public health within its own borders and protect its own citizens.
mr president, the challenges we face when it comes to preventing and responding to serious health threats have increased as we have continued to become a more and more globalised world, yet the cross-border nature of such serious health threats is an issue that we are well placed to tackle at european union level. therefore i welcome the opportunity that this report has provided for us to reinforce the eu’s ability to respond to such serious health threats. i am pleased to see that the report also provides the ability for member states to have the freedom to put in place effective public-health measures in an appropriate manner should it be necessary in their individual member states.
mr president, i believe that enhanced cooperation is essential in relation to the issue of serious cross-border health threats. as sickness and disease transcend all national borders, it is vital that member states have a coordinated approach to prevention and response planning in the event of future pandemics and environmental disasters. however, it is my belief that cooperation, not integration, is the key aspect to any eu health strategy. in the 21st century, mobility of persons, goods and services has increased dramatically, increasing the potential of sickness and disease to become more widespread in a shorter space of time. therefore, it is essential that member states work together to create a more coherent cross-border programme while respecting the principle of subsidiary. we know that this can be done from previous cooperation and it is essential that it should continue.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it removes the uk’s powers of self-regulation with regard to disease control and hands them directly to the eu/ecdc and who.
in writing. − some recent cross-border threats to health, such as the h1n1 crisis in 2009, the icelandic volcanic ash cloud, and the outbreak of e. coli in 2011, made it clear that the existing instruments at eu level for monitoring threats to health, their notification, risk assessment and crisis management are insufficient. in this report, the scope of the law is widened to cover all serious cross-border threats to health, except for those caused by radiological or nuclear exposure. the proposal refers to the importance of the existing early warning and response system, common temporary measures, joint procurement of vaccinations and coordinated assessment of threats. the measles epidemic in wales has highlighted the importance of eu-wide action, which is why i have called for an awareness-raising campaign on vaccination. i voted in favour of this report, as it will help to protect my constituents and will assist the authorities in jointly tackling any serious future cross-border threats to health.
in writing. − whilst health services quite rightly remain a member state competence, the eu can bring added value to the health of its citizens. the potential situations envisaged in this report fall into that category and accordingly i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this report and hope that as a result the eu’s ability to cope with serious cross-border health threats such as coronavirus, the 2011 e. coli epidemic or the 2009 h1n1 flu will be strengthened.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the pargneaux report on serious cross-border threats to health. this report will help member states prepare for and protect citizens against possible future pandemics and environmental disasters. it is essential that we have mechanisms in place which help us to deal with serious threats to human health such as the massive flooding which has occurred in central european countries in recent weeks. i believe this report goes some way towards rectifying the commission’s overly regulatory proposal which encroached on the principle of subsidiarity and did not allow for the higher standards already available in some member states. i also welcome the introduction of the mechanism which will lead to faster vaccination in an emergency.
in writing. − responding to various cross-border health threats we have encountered in recent years, such as avian flu and e. coli, this legislation will bring in new forms of cooperation on preparedness, response and epidemiological surveillance. we need to enhance the eu3s resilience, anticipate such health threats and put measures in place to respond to them. the 2011 e. coli outbreak showed flaws in the existing system, including a lack of coordination, resulting in countries incorrectly assigning blame for an outbreak before facts were established. i believe that, in some cases, where multiple countries are affected, there is a coordination role for the european commission. one notable factor in recent health threats has been the clear link to animal health, through incidences of zoonotic infection. joining this framework to the veterinary sector has been a key victory for the parliament in negotiations. our anticipation of the possible threat from the h7n9 avian flu strain will hopefully be improved by this legislation. i hope that any croatians paying attention to their first set of votes in the european parliament might look, and think ‘yes, this is what it’s all about, europeans working together to take on common problems, this is why we are here’.
in writing. − it is important that the member states of the eu should be as well equipped as possible to deal with cross-border health threats as they arise, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution that will help strengthen the eu’s ability to cope with serious epidemics. the most positive aspect of this new law is the possibility for member states to buy vaccines jointly. this will not only improve chances of recovery from illness by improving access to vaccines but also make pricing fairer and avoid a repeat of the 2009 h1n1 flu pandemic, which saw member states in competition with each other to buy vaccines that were available only in small quantities, meaning that some smaller member states were priced out of the market. furthermore, the eu will now have the authority to declare a ‘public health emergency’ in order to authorise the release of vaccines needed to combat large-scale health crises, whereas before it was necessary to wait for the who to declare their position. overall, these new regulations will allow for a more cooperative, sensible and, above all, safer approach to international health threats.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislation, which aims to strengthen the eu’s preparedness in the event of a serious cross-border health threat. the rules would apply to an outbreak of an infectious disease, such as the 2009 swine flu pandemic, but have also been extended to cover threats of chemical or environmental origin, for example radiation. this report extends the existing early warning and response system, strengthens the role of the health security committee and calls for greater cooperation with the world health organisation. it includes measures to better manage diseases of animal origin and to coordinate vaccine procurement at eu level, which should help to ensure more equal access to vaccines at fairer prices. the uk cannot fight a flu pandemic or nuclear disaster alone and, in today’s world of easy travel, it is impossible to contain infectious diseases within national borders, so this is an area where it is obvious that we can achieve more with the coordinated action at eu level that this report calls for.
in writing. − i have spoken in this house many times about the wasteful and superfluous nature of eu agencies. however, i decided to vote for this report as i believe that the european centre for disease control has been a rare success for the european union. as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety’s contact point with the ecdc, i know first-hand the valuable work the centre does in preventing communicable diseases across the continent. and as long as the centre’s budget and responsibilities remain limited and proportionate, i am happy to continue to support the ecdc’s role. this report, in its current form, strengthens cooperation between member states on communicable diseases, maintains flexibility and does not impinge on member states’ sovereignty. this is an approach which i can support. member states need to work together on protecting our citizens from diseases, and the sharing of information on everything from middle east respiratory syndrome to measles can help prevent outbreaks of infection across the eu.
mr president, last week the eu summit pledged to promote growth and jobs yet just a few days later here we are voting what amounts to a tax on growth. the eu financial transaction tax (ftt) will kill jobs and have a negative effect on the economy and, worse still, the tax will not bring in anything near the eur 35 billion a year the commission thinks it will. we are throwing a dog a stick and instead of fetching the stick the dog is turning around and biting us in the leg. the business of international finance can be undertaken anywhere in the world. the european union is lucky enough to have financial centres in frankfurt, luxembourg and, of course, my constituency of london. but amongst the world’s top five global financial centres only london is in the eu. if the eu continues with its foolish plan for a ftt, how long will it be before we see more businesses moving to hong kong, singapore or tokyo? the eu needs to be competitive and not surrender its financial services to the rest of the world.
mr president, yet again i find myself voting against the european union financial transaction tax (ftt). we know from experience that when you tax transactions in one part of the world, the financiers move to another part of the world, and the people who are left to pay the tax are the pensioners and the savers and the companies that are trying to get capital to grow – and, indeed, taxpayers generally when they find that the cost of their government’s debt has gone up. that is why so many european countries said they did not want to be part of the ftt. now, however, we have the issue of extra-territorialisation – a long word. what it means is one country being forced to try and collect a tax for another country, even though it disagrees with the tax. that is not legal, and it is for that reason that the uk has said to the eu: ‘we will see you in court.’
mr president, i voted against these plans for a financial transaction tax. i think it is now becoming clear to everyone that this is a deeply flawed project which has not been thought through properly by the commission or those who wish to introduce it. ultimately a tax such as this will not be paid by the bankers and the traders that everyone wants to see pay extra back to society, it will be paid by ordinary individuals through their pensions or their savings or their investments, or indeed as taxpayers who have to pay for the collection of it. taxing both sides of the transaction is also a blatant attempt to try and raise money from companies trading outwith the countries in the scheme, and it is no surprise that the uk government is taking the commission to the court on this matter. if you are outside the transaction scheme you should not be obliged to pay the tax through this externalisation of the financial transaction tax. it is time to dump these flawed plans as they are doomed to fail.
mr president, it should come as no surprise to anyone in this chamber or indeed financial centres across europe, especially london, that i oppose this tax. this ftt is badly thought out and would never achieve the revenues that people claim it will. it will simply cost businesses and small investors across europe more, while banks and sophisticated market actors will create ever more complex products to avoid it. we do not levy vat upon goods and expect the supermarkets to pay it. we all know that the cost is passed on to the consumer and it is naive to think an ftt is any different. i cannot understand why the countries who have agreed to go ahead with this enhanced cooperation have done so and i look forward to hearing the european court of justice’s view on the extraterritorial implications of the tax as proposed. given that there is still no answer to the basic questions of who should collect the tax and how, i suspect this debate is going to continue for a long time. however, i do hope ultimately it will die and it should actually be discarded in its entirety.
mr president, the biggest myth in this debate is that this is a tax on banks. if i have heard that phrase once in the debate i have heard it a hundred times: all taxes ultimately fall on people. it is not your house that pays the council tax, it is not your tv set that pays the licence fee, it is not your car that pays the road tax – and it will not be the bricks and mortar of the banks that pays the financial transaction tax. who will pay? investors in reduced returns, bank customers, companies in higher borrowing costs and therefore of course the customers and employees of those companies. and as a result of driving capital and financiers out of europe, it will whack up the tax bill for everybody else as they are obliged to make up their share, so all of us will be poorer in return for what the commission itself accepts will be a reduction in europe’s gdp. if 11 countries are stupid enough to want to do this to themselves, that is their business, but having spent the last day listening to everyone bleating about extra-territoriality in the context of us data intercepts, i wish you would have the consistency to apply that same principle in this instance.
in writing. − i voted against this move as it creates a tax that will not only impact heavily on financial markets but will be costly for the city to implement, despite the fact that hm treasury will not benefit from the tax.
in writing. − i strongly believe in a financial transaction tax, at a global level and with the proceeds being ring-fenced and appropriately utilised. i do not think that an eu-only tax will work and i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. − i abstained on this proposal. i strongly support an ftt and will continue to campaign for one at the eu and global level but i could not support the position in this resolution that the income from an ftt should be used for eu own resources.
in writing. − the structural and economic problems associated with latvia clearly show that this country would be far better off outside the euro area and its inclusion means that we will soon have another country which we will need to bail out. the euro project has been, and continues to be, a failure and there should be no additional reanimation of this corpse. for these reasons, i voted against the above.
in writing. − when you look at what adopting the euro has inflicted on all those member states which have adopted the currency, you are left to ponder why any country would want to inflict the consequences of membership upon its economy and upon its citizens. i do fear that, for the good people of latvia, the end result will be no different as it puts on the economic straightjacket of the single currency. the medicine for this pain is only the resolute determination of eu leaders and the political class in those member states to stick with the euro against all economic reasoning. being part of the club is deemed to be worth the high price. as one commentator put it only yesterday, membership of the euro gives ‘a place at the high table of political influence and final release from old enemies and oppressors’. maybe so, but maybe it simply brings more oppression but in a different form. and it most certainly brings oppression to the people upon whom austerity is foisted as a result. i hope for the people of latvia this is not the case.
in writing. − i voted for this report which ‘favours the adoption of the euro by latvia on 1 january 2014’.
in writing. − i abstained on this report because the uk is not a member of the euro area. however i urge latvia to take a cautionary approach to joining the euro. we have seen in the past few years how countries have become trapped within the euro area and unable to implement the monetary policies they desperately need to protect their citizens and rebuild their economies. the euro area has become a prison from which it is completely impossible to escape. at a time of instability, membership of the euro is a risk. the euro has tied hands behind backs as governments in greece, cyprus, spain, italy and portugal find it increasingly difficult to stabilise their economies and protect jobs. there is record unemployment in countries like greece and spain – with few signs of the situation improving as these countries desperately cling to a currency ill-equipped to adapt to the plethora of national economic realities within the euro area. in latvia, non-resident deposits account for nearly 50 % of total bank deposits, many of these owned by investors who previously banked in cyprus. sixty-two percent of latvians oppose joining the euro and i urge nation states to retain their economic self-determination.
mr president, relative to other areas of the united kingdom, my constituency of northern ireland has the highest number of road traffic collisions and four people lost their lives on the roads in northern ireland last year alone. however, because of a proactive policy pursued by local government, i am pleased to report that the relevant figures are on the way down. northern ireland’s road safety strategy to 2020 outlines the key road safety challenges to be addressed over the coming years. our vision for road safety is to make journeys on northern ireland’s roads as safe for all road users as anywhere in the world. it is important to recognise that every accident statistic represents a real person: a life lost or a life affected. families are devastated and have to endure the consequences of what could have been prevented. every member state needs to focus on preventing such unnecessary suffering.
in writing. − while no one can deny the societal importance of road safety, i believe that this is an area that the member states should have complete control over with regard to policies and their implementation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on road safety, and many of my group’s tabled amendments were adopted, including a recommendation for promotion and training campaigns and information on safer cycling and walking. the safety of my constituents in wales is paramount and a report such as this which will go towards ensuring that safety, is of vital importance.
in writing. − i welcome this resolution which among other things calls on the member states to encourage collaboration between emergency services and vehicle designers and manufacturers in order to ensure effective intervention and safety for the rescuer and the injured.
mr president, i abstained on this report because i am a fundamental believer in the rights of the nation state. however, i am gravely concerned by the situation which is developing in hungary. over the last six months we have seen several measures introduced by the hungarian government which threaten the freedom of religion of hungarian citizens. a new law in hungary, called the law on the right to freedom of conscience and religion, and on churches, religions and religious communities, has meant that only 32 of over 300 faith groups in hungary have received formal recognition by parliament to operate as churches. official status was removed from more than 300 protestant groups and minor catholic religious orders. missionaries working in hungary now face draconian taxation, losing almost 50% of their income to the state. hungary is a beautiful country that i have visited on a number of occasions recently and they have rid themselves of the oppression of communism. i trust and hope that they will also reflect on measures which are deemed to be against freedom of religion and association as well.
mr president, i voted against this report as it is a gross intervention in national affairs and national sovereignty. there may indeed be rights abuses in hungary, but it is for the hungarian people to address these concerns and not the eu. this is how the eu works: it takes a good cause such as this and it makes it its business, but it is not the eu’s business. this idea of a wise men group, an investigative body of meps looking into the rights of all 28 member states – we are not just talking about hungary in this report – takes away our democratic rights; it does not add to those rights. i think this proposal crosses the rubicon and, just as when julius caesar crossed that rubicon, there is no way back. it marks the start of a european empire interfering in nation states’ matters. and as julius caesar said, the die is indeed cast. i think this report absolutely says that. we must go against this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of today's resolution on the situation in hungary due to the severity of and worrying repercussions of the actions initiated by the current hungarian government who have infringed on the rights of minorities and the independence of the judiciary, to name but a few. however i believe it is the role of the council to monitor this situation, not the commission who are not elected. this is why i abstained on rcvs relating to the role of the european commission.
in writing. − this is a ridiculous situation in which a member state, an independent country, is being criticised by the left wingers that create their constitutional law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of my colleague rui tavares and his recommendations on the situation of fundamental rights in hungary. this country-specific report is the first of its kind in eu history, and serves both as a comprehensive documentation of the current situation in hungary and as a set of recommendations for the hungarian government and this parliament. one recommendation was to set up a mechanism to effectively enforce article 2 of the lisbon treaty (which sets out the fundamental values of the union). i hope that this report marks the start of a long overdue response to the steadily declining situation of fundamental rights in hungary. i received a lot of lobbying on this from hungarian people. wales is proud to be part of a europe which values tolerance, peace and equality, and we must protect those shared values when they come under threat.
in writing. − uk conservatives in the european parliament strongly support the rule of law, democratic values and fundamental rights within the european union. however, we do not believe that it is the role of the european parliament to carry out a political evaluation on the new hungarian constitution and its compliance with european law. this function is clearly stated as the role of the european commission under article 17 of the european treaties. furthermore, the uk conservatives strongly reject any attempts by the european parliament to strengthen the mandate of the fundamental rights agency, and reject proposals to expand the competence of the european parliament in areas which encroach upon national sovereignty, notably the creation of an investigative body and evaluation mechanism for all member states regarding their compliance with fundamental values of the union. for these reasons, the uk conservatives did not support this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘recalls that respect for legality, including a transparent, accountable and democratic process of enacting laws, including when adopting a fundamental law, and for a strong system of representative democracy based on free elections and respecting the rights of the opposition are key elements of the concepts of democracy and the rule of law as enshrined in article 2 teu, which provides that “the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values are common to the member states in a society in which pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail”, and as proclaimed in the preambles to both the treaty on the european union and the charter. the resolution regrets that, from the point of view of protecting european core values, the eu institutions have not always managed in the past to live up to their own standards; it maintains, therefore, that it falls to them in particular to take a stand in order to safeguard european fundamental rights as referred to in article 2 teu, both at union level and in the member states’.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my sympathy for our neighbours and colleagues in central europe who were affected by the recent flooding natural disaster which wreaked devastation on parts of austria, the czech republic, germany, slovakia and hungary – all countries i know well. indeed, according to the greater london authority, my own constituency, flooding is also one of london’s highest risks, threatening more than 680 000 properties across the uk capital. i am therefore particularly supportive of any initiative that seeks to simplify the eu solidarity fund and helps to increase critical drainage infrastructure and enhance flood-control measures. it also must be noted that respect and flexibility should be afforded to individual eu member states who are best placed to judge their own distinct needs and peculiarities and can consequently select the most suitable projects for flood prevention within their own national borders. primarily i believe that prevention is more effective than the cure, and disaster preparedness is absolutely fundamental to this concept.
mr president, as with each of the motions for resolutions presented before parliament on this issue, i would like to express sympathy for those affected by the recent flooding in central europe. i would also like to commend emergency services working in the areas affected for their endeavours in limiting the human and social cost of the disaster. as the economic impact of the flooding continues to become apparent, i welcome the emphasis placed by each of the groups on the need for flexibility with eu funds, including the structural funds, to ensure that programmes can be redirected towards reconstruction and regeneration within communities affected. i would add, however, that in recent years parts of my own constituency, like fermanagh, have been badly damaged by flooding, with no support given. support ought always to be equitable. i also share the view that member states should revaluate the strategies they have in place for both preventing the natural disasters and responding to such crises as they arise.
in writing. − using the tragedy of thousands of people who have lost all their belongings in the recent flooding as an excuse to introduce more eu legislation is a really miserable idea. it is for this reason that i voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which ‘stresses that flood prevention programmes need to be implemented by the member states through comprehensive and preventive strategies; emphasises that emergency policy, including emergency prevention and emergency response, requires the closer involvement of regions, cities and local communities, which should be encouraged to include emergency policy in their strategies’.
mr president, the uk’s banking sector is a national asset and london, the eu’s largest financial centre. the financial services industry contributes approximately 10% of uk gdp, with every job in the sector adding around gbp 117 000 to my london constituency’s regional economy and representing about 50% of it. however recent reckless behaviour has heightened awareness of the sector’s need for prudential reform, but we must preserve, and also enhance, the banks’ ability to finance the wider economy, particularly smes, in order to create jobs and growth in our economy. i am supportive of this report’s aspiration for a principles-based approach to protecting taxpayers and bank customers when part of a bank fails and needs formal resolution. i welcome its desire to complement other banking reform measures with its proposals. in the uk i support the vickers banking reforms and would personally go further by advocating a formal separation of retail and wholesale banking, along the lines of the us glass-stegall act, to prevent another 2008 financial collapse occurring in the west.
in writing. − i voted against the report as it calls on the commission not only to restrict remuneration but also to introduce sanctions for rule-breaking – i believe the power to enact such measures should lie solely with the individual member states.
in writing. − the banking crisis came about at a truly global level and it is therefore appropriate that reforms are brought about by the cooperation of national, eu and international authorities. the crisis affects millions of citizens and threatens vital public services. the banking industry must never be allowed to repeat these mistakes and i gave my backing to this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which says the banking sector should be reformed so that retail banking activities such as taking deposits, operating bank accounts and granting loans are separated from riskier activities such as trading with financial instruments and derivatives.
in writing. − the ecr group is not opposed to member states instigating structural reform of their banking sector, including full separation of different banking activities, should they deem it necessary. however, the ecr does not believe that a single eu framework for structural reform will be able to address the different needs nor mitigate the impact of bank failure within each member state. what may be appropriate for one member state may not be a suitable solution for another and so the principle of subsidiarity should apply. the recent agreement reached on capital requirements implementing basel iii rules via the crd iv goes some way to addressing the issue of european structural reform of the banking sector by setting minimum capital standards for credit institutions whilst allowing member states to go further in the area of prudential requirements should they wish to. an eu framework on capital requirements was appropriate but a prescriptive eu framework on structures is not.
in writing. − i backed today’s report by a labour mep for a fundamental shake-up of the eu banking sector. i support measures set out in the report, which calls for a legislative proposal for structural reform of the eu banking sector, continued reform of the remuneration culture for bankers and the separation of banking services that are essential to the real economy from risky activities of traders and investment bankers. i echo calls for a safer, more stable banking system which does not rely on bailouts by the taxpayer and furthermore i agree that consumers should no longer pay for risks being taken by banks which affect them directly. i am disappointed, but not surprised, that tory meps voted against measures to restructure the banking sector in the eu. this approach is contradictory to what the uk government is saying at home and shows once again that the tories are not interested in supporting a fair, stable banking system but rather are happy to take risks for short-term gains.
in writing. − this report calls for measures to ensure we have a safer and more stable banking system across europe. earlier research has found that excessive complexity and risk taking in the banking system, along with inadequate capital, all contributed significantly to the financial crisis. this own-initiative report calls, among other measures, for the separation of banks’ retail activities from the more risky trading and investment activities, for trading and investment banks to bear the costs of their activities and for longer deferral of bankers’ bonuses, with greater personal liability for board members when things go wrong. i supported this report, as i believe that structural reform of europe’s banks is essential to ensure that retail customers are protected from future crises and bailouts resulting from risky trading activity. i am surprised that the conservatives voted against this report today, as it includes many measures proposed by their own government for banking reform in the uk.
mr president, while i welcome the committee’s ongoing work towards fighting fraud across and within europe’s borders, it is unfortunate that this report continues to promote the harmonisation of national criminal law systems across the eu. member states should have complete sovereignty over how they decide to detect, pursue and prosecute instances of fraud and should not be forced to comply with standard eu requirements for evaluating individual cases and reporting information to the commission. of course, this does not negate the responsibility of national governments actively to fight fraud. in that regard, i strongly welcome this report’s emphasis on tackling crime in agriculture and in relation to the common agricultural policy and cohesion policies – areas that remain so relevant to life in my constituency of northern ireland. i also support the committee’s focus on promoting the role of ict and e-transactions in detecting fraud. finally, i welcome the report’s calls for law enforcement authorities to prioritise fighting fraud. such a direction is vital and i would call upon nationalist politicians in northern ireland to allow the national crime agency to operate in our region of the united kingdom.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls for ‘corruption with an impact on the financial interests of the european union to be considered as fraud as regards the application of article 325(5) tfeu and to be included in the commission’s annual report on the protection of the european union’s financial interests - fight against fraud’.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the integrated internal control framework. it clarifies important points on how the commission distributed the budget. in wales, i hear a great deal of criticism of waste in the budgetary system of the eu, so we have to take every opportunity to ensure it is effective.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, which calls on the commission ‘to be more rigorous when certifying the national management and audit authorities and to put in place the right incentives and an effective system of sanctions’.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we talk about rules, procedures and conformity with eu law, yet i do not recall seeing in the treaties that the european parliament was to be appointed judge, jury and executioner. i also must have missed the part of the lisbon treaty that appointed this parliament as the moral authority for the whole of europe. the european council, the commission and the european external action service have all called for more information and more facts on this situation before they comment. unfortunately this house seems determined to conduct a witch hunt, aimed at securing headlines instead of finding out the facts and behaving responsibly. the ecr will not sign up to this resolution. we will not support bad lawmaking and we will not condemn the united states or member states on the basis of allegations yet to be corroborated. it is our responsibility as parliamentarians to have concerns. it is our duty also to make sure member states comply with the principles of freedom and democracy and checks and balances. security services should protect not only our lives but also our liberty. however, in a democracy, you think first and act later; you gather facts before you threaten and compromise international agreements. to do otherwise is unacceptable. the socialists submitted an amendment calling for the freezing of trade negotiations. my group opposes this amendment. with 26 million people unemployed in europe, it is shameful. the gue/ngl group asked the eu to grant asylum to edward snowden, a man referred to as a defender of fundamental liberties, and the green group suggested he get the sakharov prize. what an insult to fighters for freedom like nelson mandela, aung san suu kyi and guillermo fariñas, honoured here today! presumably the dublin convention will determine the lucky state that gets mr snowden. let us stop posturing, let us stop trying to grab headlines and let us act in a responsible manner, finding out the facts first. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr kirkhope, you are aware that in the universal declaration on human rights, the european convention on human rights and the european union’s own charter of fundamental rights, there is an acceptance that the state may spy on its citizens in a measure that is proportionate to the threat. do you believe that the methods that are allegedly being employed through the prism and tempora programmes are proportionate to any threat from terrorists or international criminal gangs, and do you believe that the parliamentary oversight of these programmes and the countries from which they are operated is sufficient to protect the public interest?
blue-card answer. – well, sir graham, you seem to have a lot of knowledge on this subject. it seems to me that it is a matter for national governments and states to determine the level of scrutiny that takes places there, and i am quite happy that that should be happening in democracies and democratic states throughout europe. so far as i am concerned, proportionality is of course part of this, but i have no reason to believe that there is not proportionality. what is not proportional, however, is the behaviour and reactions of certain political groups, including your own, in this house. that is not proportional. when we get proportionality in that debate, then i will be happier.
mr president, we have two very difficult tasks. we have what ms reding called the endless task of finding out why the us was spying on the european union. that will go on forever. then we have the much deeper issue of the allegations concerning the prism and tempora programmes, and these raise more profound questions for this house. five groups will tomorrow agree on something important, namely that all of us recognise national security is a matter for the member states, but this case shows clearly now – certainly in the eyes of our group – that an eu legal framework for the protection of personal data is no longer a luxury and it is not a constraint: it is a fundamental right. the union and our political groups were working on this fundamental right before any of these allegations came to light. this is a matter of vital interest to us and we must make progress on it. that is precisely the spirit of the eu’s data protection package and of the reforms which have been on the table for 18 months. it is clear that some member states were not moving enthusiastically towards adopting those reforms. so timing is a matter of considerable importance here. it is true, of course, that member states have given considerable priority to certain legislation, notably the data retention directive which was negotiated in the record time of six months and which did allow limits on civil liberties. so the member states did move fast when certain data issues were on the table. i think that shows two things. firstly, we are on the right track here, in that international legislation is now vital in this area to protect these fundamental rights, and secondly that we need to get the balance right between security for our citizens and the protection of their fundamental freedoms in what is a new internet era of bulk data transfers. these allegations will be investigated. we can argue as to how we do it, but for our group the consensus is now quite correct: we need to investigate and we also need reform on data protection.
mr president, glad as i am that parliament is taking this lead in scrutinising spying operations, we cannot do it alone. we need national parliamentarians to probe the activities of their intelligence services, and not be fobbed off by whispers of ‘national security, old chaps, you know’. as on the question of rendition and torture starting a decade ago, i have a strong sense of déjà vu of challenging a secretive intelligent state. i am proud of the role that i and my alde group played in finally getting the temporary committee of meps in 2006, which helped expose the truth, even though the then labour government in britain tried to scare us off – especially me. i hope the intelligence and security committee of uk mps will do a better job on gchq’s project tempora than they did in investigating uk complicity in extraordinary rendition. so far the signs are not good and i am afraid we have even cancelled an open hearing of intelligence chiefs this week. indeed there is a scandalously deafening silence at westminster and i and many others would like to know why. yes, we must get a rigorous new eu data protection regulation, but without stronger national and international controls on snooping by the spooks and agreements on jurisdiction – and there vice-president reding was absolutely right that this is a conflict of laws problem – we are only baking half a loaf with eu data protection law. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – it might indeed be very interesting to have a direct dialogue with edward snowden. i do not know whether the eu authorities are capable of issuing any kind of travel pass – maybe you know the answer there – so i am not entirely sure how we would solve that. let me say, however, that i have focused on the allegations against the uk’s government communications headquarters (gchq). can we be sure that other member states – albeit to a lesser degree – should not be considering the beam in their own eye in terms of cooperation with the national security agency and indeed of the possible use of information gathered by gchq?
mr president, it has long been the reality that the usa could intercept any electronic communication anywhere in the world but the advent of the internet and digital communications has created a whole new treasure trove of information which can be plundered by the security services. the reason that so many terrorist attacks in the uk and elsewhere have been thwarted is precisely because the security services have accessed the terrorist communications. now that is on the plus side, but on the minus side the state now has the technical means to know almost everything about individual citizens. now the challenge for democratic nation states is to ensure that access to personal information is only used according to strict legally established and internationally observed rules which protect the individual from the state. what we do not need is the eu using this issue to further assert its pretentions to be a political state. equally it does not help that the british government is now nothing more than a lapdog of the usa. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i think that it was the ira who said to the security services ‘you have to win every time, we only have to win once’. the security services have a tremendously difficult job in thwarting these attacks, and in the uk we know that there have been many – some we know about and some we do not – which have been stopped because of the security services’ ability to look at people’s communications. i think there are two issues here. there is the issue of what they can do by looking at people’s communications, and then there is this totally indiscriminate collecting of information on everybody, which i think is extremely dangerous. can you imagine if hitler, stalin or mao had had access to this information? i do not think that i am disagreeing with you; we probably agree more than we disagree on this.
mr president, it is extraordinary how a story combining the united states, surveillance and privacy can excite such outpourings of cant and hypocrisy. we went through something similar in 2001 with the creation of the echelon temporary committee. now we have the snowden case. let us be clear: snowden seems to have been engaged in premeditated treachery, not civic-minded whistle-blowing. he was foolishly entrusted with national secrets of the united states and deliberately betrayed those secrets. he apparently claimed that he did not want to live in a society which did those sorts of things and immediately took himself off to those paragons of human rights, democracy and transparency, first to the people’s republic of china and then russia. the most worrying aspect of this tale is not the mock outrage of the european union playing states and talking about its so-called ‘citizens’, but the ease with which the nsa was penetrated by snowden. we must have confidence in our national intelligence agencies and those of our closest allies, operating as they do in time-honoured fashion, accountable and under democratic control, guarding our law-abiding citizens and our national interests at a time of increasingly complex threat. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – quite honestly, the eu has to stop playing states. the responsibility for the protection of national citizens lies with our nation states, not with the eu. we have this mythical idea of some eu citizenship. and by the way: hypocrisy? we could find numerous examples – for example of french industrial espionage against the united states. that has been going on for years and i am sure it still is going on. what are we talking about here? our interest is in strong intelligence services protecting the interests of our citizens and we should welcome measures to make them stronger, not try to find ways of digging in and undermining them.
mr president, there is sometimes a presumption that if we have done nothing wrong, we have nothing to fear from surveillance. however, there is evidence that security services collect political information that is not concerned with the committing of criminal offences. sometimes they collect personal information unconnected with politics – perhaps to create leverage over individuals. furthermore, they do not only collect information but also sometimes engage in disruptive action on the basis of that information. we know all of this from the revelations in 2011 about the activities of a british police officer, mark kennedy, who infiltrated green protest groups. some states – the united kingdom is a particular example – practise formal and systematic discrimination against members of named political parties. a merseyside police officer lost his career in 2009 as the result of alleged membership of a perfectly legal but heretical political party. i will stop there.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it hardly needs to be restated here that the situation in egypt remains very grave. in fact the situation is evolving on a seemingly hourly basis as the army deadline approaches and there are reports that tanks are being seen on the streets. we must take this opportunity to offer our support to the millions of ordinary egyptians who never lost their dreams for freedom, prosperity and security through all the decades of hosni mubarak’s tyranny, of the bloody, hard-fought arab spring revolution and now, for a year, of the chaotic mismanagement by mohamed morsi, whose legitimacy is now in question. i stood here a few months ago and argued that revolutions are transitions rather than transformations and that perhaps a period of instability was to be expected after such upheaval, but president morsi has tested the patience of his international partners and, far more importantly, his own people, to breaking point. let us not forget that the real victims of egypt’s unrest are not egyptian politicians, many of whom are fighting old battles in their own interests, still less those in the international community, but rather the millions in egypt who have taken to the streets virtually every week for two and a half years to seek a better life based on fundamental freedom. morsi’s interests lie with the sectarian islamist muslim brotherhood and not with all of the people of egypt. under his stewardship, conditions for women and minorities, particularly the much oppressed christian copts, have steadily worsened and injustice has increased, while civic freedoms have been eroded by a president who has at times attempted to unilaterally seize all the levers of power, even where mubarak never dared to go. this is not the revolution the egyptians demanded, nor one that we in the eu can support. we must now throw our weight behind the tamarod rebels seeking new elections – but without a return to full-scale military dictatorship – whilst urging the opposition to protest without violence, particularly in the light of last night’s clashes between pro-morsi supporters and the security forces at cairo university, in which at least 16 people were killed and 200 injured. morsi must go, as egypt deserves much better.
rapporteur. − mr president, despite the fact that this parliament has been directly elected for 35 years, we are still something of a novelty. we have extensive legislative and budgetary powers and powers of control and we enjoy using such powers, but we are accused of lacking democratic legitimacy. national political parties and parliaments have found it quite hard to adapt to the installation of a rival parliament at the federal level. the media tend to follow national parliaments not us. european political parties barely function as proper campaigning organisations. candidates for this place are picked and sustained by parties at the national and not european level. it is not a surprise in these circumstances to find that turnout at our elections has declined, leading many to claim that this great experiment here in transnational or even post-national democracy is failing. so can we make the elections in 2014 a better experience for the voter and the media? i think, and the committee agrees with me, that we can, by boosting the role of the european political parties, by picking champions who will stand on party platforms and promote their own manifestos for their campaign by competing at the european level for ideas, policies, votes and seats, by spreading the vital party politics that we have on the inside of this house to the wider public, by posing real choices on the make-up of the next commission, on the pace and style of integration, on the spending programmes of the eu and on europe’s stance on international affairs. that way, the new parliament and the new commission president that we will elect by an absolute majority of this house in july of next year, will have a seriously democratic mandate.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, here we go again, another attempt to distort democracy in britain! if you really want to put the logos of these pan-european groups on the ballot papers next year, by all means do so, but you will simply confuse our voters. virtually nobody in the uk has heard of the aecr, which is apparently the euro name of choice for what used to be called the ‘conservative party’. however, by using these strange names it is possible to use uk taxpayers’ cash to finance their campaigns. say no more! by all means nominate a has-been politician for the post of president of the commission, but the average british voter will never have heard of him unless he is called tony blair. by all means try to get the uk to permit political broadcasts by these euro parties, but no genuinely british political party would want to be associated with this undermining of our political system by the eu. you are just trying to create the concept of a european demos and hoping that british taxpayers’ money will do the job for you. it will not.
mr president, these elections have had progressively lower turnouts, election by election. in fact the electorate is generally voting on national issues, which shows that the plan for a federal europe does not really have public consent, does it? even where there have been referendums, you federalists have been defeated until you have made the voters vote again. you do not care about the voters of europe, do you? mr duff, the british press has today carried criticism of your plan for pan-european political parties to participate in our elections. what you clearly do not understand is that the people do not want this. latvian accession to the single currency was approved today by this parliament, despite an admission in the – appropriately named – balz report that the latvian people do not really want it. you talk in the report about citizens being ‘directly represented at union level in the european parliament’. they already are represented by members they have voted for, but the traditional view of a democratic representative is not good enough for you, is it, mr duff? of course this is not what we really want, is it? what you want, mr duff, is for citizens to be represented by people who agree with your own federalist vision of europe. the people may not want that, mr duff, but what does that really matter to you? what we need is a referendum about our membership of the european union. that is what the people of the united kingdom want.
mr president, i know that mr duff is commendably honest and direct about being an arch-federalist – a true believer in the european superstate. that is something that five million people in the east of england have no desire for at all, and it is noticeable that his party, the lib dems, is not supporting a democratic ‘in/out’ referendum vote this friday in westminster. however, this report is outrageous even in federalist terms. it advocates that european political parties should stand in british elections, complete with their own emblems and their own political broadcasts on tv. i believe that the epp here is already busy raising gbp 5 million to spend on the forthcoming election. the report is in favour of european political parties nominating candidates like mr barroso for the post of president of the european commission. i think this is a false and worthless measure, a sort of gdr-style democracy. the report also advocates extending candidacy to eu citizens … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr duff is at least persistent in pursuing his federalist agenda in this house – as i believe, against the will of the british people. i have, i think, commented at least two or three times on similar types of reports authored by mr duff. one colleague this afternoon has actually said that these recommendations should breathe new life into european democracy. i believe that what will really breathe new life into european democracy and the european debate in the united kingdom is a referendum on our position in europe. it is a referendum that your party, mr duff, continues to deny the people of the united kingdom, but one which will be moved in the british parliament on friday. i trust that you will reflect on the position that the british people are in, that you will allow them … (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. − mr president, there has been a lot of speculation, especially on the right of the house, about what i want. i will tell you what i want: it is a strong pluralist parliament where nationalists and federalists are clearly represented in a democratic way. there has also been some speculation that the financial and economic crisis will further depress the turnout. i must say i do not agree with that. certainly, if i were from a country that was under a troika programme i would be queuing at the ballot box early in the morning to cast my vote. i suspect that what the political parties will have to do is to articulate a way forward from this profound and protracted economic crisis. i understand, as several of you have said, that it is not straightforward for the political parties to find, select and sustain candidates for the commission presidency. i understand that. this is an experiment and all the political parties will approach the challenge in different ways – the greens are having primaries, and good luck to them! however, i am certain that the experiment is going to have a transformational effect on the quality of the campaign – to personalise it and to dramatise it – and that it is going to result in a stronger and more democratic, transparent, legitimate political system at the emerging federal level.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, ms hohlmeier, for her hard work and good cooperation, as well as her patience with what i felt at times were efforts to delay the adoption of this report in order to make political points on the unrelated issue of schengen. cooperation in fighting cybercrime is one of the vital areas where europe genuinely and strongly benefits from our working more closely together. fighting cybercrime on an eu level effectively depends on making sure that criminals are not gifted with the opportunity to set up shop in any member state which may have insufficient protection against cyber-attacks. obviously europe’s defence against cybercrime is only as strong as its weakest link, and frankly there are too many weak links. our work here in parliament, and with europol in particular, shows that we are finally trying to lead on this issue. ms hohlmeier’s report is a clear step in the right direction against an always faceless and usually formidable enemy. the cost of cybercrime is enormous. it damages jobs and businesses and puts government institutions at risk, and it is therefore insidious. this report identifies all these things and, in my view and my group’s view, it offers a sensible and realistic way forward.
madam president, as events unfold around us in cairo as this debate takes place, it makes the point that the export of arms must not simply account for the end user today but who it might be tomorrow. this is the first opportunity to welcome the international arms trade treaty and to take pride in the european role in its achievement, as well as the role of ngos, including amnesty international, oxfam, control arms and saferworld. i am sure bulgaria will sign soon to make it every eu state. spain is the only country to commit to applying the human rights criteria from the date of signature and we should call on all eu countries to follow their example. only north korea, syria and iran were against this treaty which shows, i think, that europe is on the right side of the argument. i take equal pride in the role of the former uk government of my own party in championing the eu export code of conduct. however, i think the president-in-office opening the debate should reflect on his words in relation to the review of the common position. for him to say civil society has been fully informed about the review through only private six-monthly meetings with selected ngos is, i think, far- fetched and i call for full external consultation as the review unfolds. secondly, i welcome guidance on criteria 7 and 8. how can the presidency justify no guidance on the human rights criteria despite the specific commitments in the human rights action plan of baroness ashton to emphasise this in the review? for the presidency to say tonight that there are ‘solid transparency provisions’ is disappointing. i urge him to pursue the development of an online searchable database which has been proposed but i believe much more can be done to enhance oversight. the british labour party has adopted plans to match sweden and indeed the united states for independent prior scrutiny of arms exports, while all countries should match the netherlands in publishing detailed information on licence denials. finally, the president-in-office and members will be aware that the czech government under the code of conduct sold 50 000 pistols to egyptian police within the last months. i hope those pistols will not be used in a way today or in the forthcoming days that will cause them or us to regret it.
member of the commission. − madam president, i thank you for the support given to these negotiations on a plurilateral agreement on services. an open market in the service sector can offer significant opportunities to our exporters, who are in many areas amongst the most competitive. we should therefore not fear competition, either here in the european union or in third countries. this does not mean that the commission will negotiate without taking due account of our sensitivities. these negotiations will not require the privatisation or deregulation of any services and the commission attaches great importance to this. in these times of slow economic recovery, the opportunities that more open services markets can offer cannot be underestimated. again, thank you for your support.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament for its support and concerns regarding the measures taken by norway. parliament’s resolution is very welcome and appreciated. we consider that the measures taken by norway are protectionist in nature and are not the type of action one would expect from our friends and neighbours. i regret to note that norway did not consult us before the norwegian government adopted a tariff increase. after the decision was taken the commission took all available measures to counter the tariff increase. letters were sent by the director-general of dg agri and commissioner cioloş to oppose the new tariffs. consultations with norway took place at political and technical level. the issue was raised at the eaa joint committee. nevertheless norway was not willing to reconsider the measures taken. the commission estimates, however, that in the short to medium term the economic impact of the switch of duties will be limited. according to figures for the first five months of 2013 the export of cheese from the eu to norway has actually increased by 1.5% under the increased duties. yet, in the longer term, the new tariffs could limit the growth of eu exports to norway for the products concerned. it also needs to be underlined, as regards hortensia, eu exports have fallen from eur 3 million in 2012 to eur 1 million in 2013 after the customs reclassification. in our view the measures are contrary to the objectives of article 19 of the eea agreement and the latest bilateral agreement under article 19 of the eea agreement, which both foresee progressive trade liberalisation. however, they are within norway’s wto commitments. we are considering what can be done bilaterally and will also take this into account in other areas of our relations with norway.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i was the rapporteur for the opinion for parliament’s committee on agriculture and rural development on trade in agricultural products between the european union and the kingdom of norway. that opinion was incorporated into the bilateral trade agreement in 2012. in that agreement, both parties committed to continue in the spirit of article 19 of the eea agreement. i remind you that under that agreement both parties committed to continue efforts to achieving progressive liberalisation of agricultural trade. they went on to say that in 2014 they would hold a review of the conditions of trade with a view to exploring further possible concessions. that was an agreement, commissioner – and both parties agreed at the time – which was ‘mutually beneficial’. the facts are today that trade in agricultural products makes up a mere 5.9 % of norway’s exports to the eu and just 10 % of their imports, so i am completely surprised that the norwegians should choose at this time to act in a manner which is totally contrary to that agreement. i would urge and encourage the commission to take action to curb these duties before a formal review takes place in 2014.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you to all of the members of the parliament for raising this issue, for the debate, and for your strong words concerning what has been raised by mr ertug and also others. a review of the conditions of trade is foreseen, as was already mentioned by another colleague, for 2013-2014, which should lead to the opening of a new round of negotiations with a view to seeking further liberalisation of trade. once again, thank you for your political backing by adopting tomorrow a strong resolution on this issue, and i can once again reassure you that we will also take this into account in other areas in our relations and negotiations with norway in the future.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i turn to the very important subject which your parliament is putting on its agenda this morning, i would like to thank the members of parliament in this chamber and in parliament in general for their support in the important negotiations which we have just concluded in marrakesh, in which you drew up a resolution, adopted almost unanimously, on access to books in accessible formats for the visually impaired. it was a very difficult international negotiation which was concluded last week, and you voted almost unanimously on a resolution on this subject, to which i was committed on behalf of the european union, and the outcome of this negotiation was positive. i wanted to tell you that things are progressing for this citizens' europe that we are so keen to see. we are close to the digital single market, which has considerable potential. if the european union increased its broadband use by just 10%, we would gain one point in gdp. if e-commerce accounted for 15% of total trade, instead of the current 5%, we would gain 1.7% growth. we know that the digital economy creates 2.6 jobs for every job that is lost in the rest of the economy. we must go after this surplus growth, as we have said - and chairman malcolm harbour and the members of his committee know this well - in this project on the single market act, which we launched together three years ago. that is why we have been willing to work with you for the past three years on this new, and by no means dynamic, regulatory framework to develop the digital single market. our action is part of the continuity. for example, the consumer rights directive, which is expected to be transposed by the end of the year, is helping to strengthen online consumer confidence and thus the digital single market. over the last three years, we have also put all this into a strategy: the general ambition defined by the digital strategy, led by my colleague, nellie kroes; the collective impetus given by the single market act i and ii - i will come back to that - and then the focus of the action plan for online trade and services, which we are leading in the commission with nellie kroes and now our new croatian colleague who has just joined us, neven mimica. this has brought us closer to our goal of making the digital revolution a reality in the single market, which is our main asset in this crisis and which must work better. where are we today? first, a few words on three important texts on which we have reached agreement with the council of ministers: the regulation on the online settlement of consumer disputes, adopted in april, the directive on orphan works, and the connecting europe facility, a financing instrument on which agreement was reached on 27 june, although i must say that the amount of appropriations for digital networks is clearly below our initial ambitions. that is the result, the balance sheet. i shall not dwell on it. secondly, there is a great deal of discussion on concrete proposals, which are also dynamic, for a regulation on the common law of sale, followed by president lehne and mr berlinguer; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: our directive on the modernisation of collective management and the development of multi-territorial licences, which is being dealt with by marielle gallo; our proposal for a regulation to reduce the cost of deploying broadband followed by mrs herzog; finally, in the last few days, the proposal we made on electronic invoicing. our analysis, ladies and gentlemen, shows that the mere fact of being able to develop electronic invoicing would generate savings of 2 billion a year in the field of public procurement. that is all that is being done and should be concluded together - i hope so - before the end of this year, or possibly before the end of your term of office. in addition, specific strategies have been defined: our action plan on online gambling, which is being followed by ashley fox, and i do not forget jürgen creutzmann's own initiative report on this subject; the strategy for cloud computing, cloud computing, which is being followed by mrs (the earl of) dartmouthdel castillo vera and finally, the big dossier that mr schwab is bringing here on cyber security. i would also like to say, in relation to the news about american espionage, and probably other espionage of which europe is the victim, that beyond protection or defence, there is also, in my view, a response that this crisis encourages us to implement, which is for europe to equip itself with the tools of its strategic autonomy. i have just mentioned two subjects which are part of europe's strategic autonomy, whether it be cloud computing or cyber security, but there are others, with galileo or the ability to preserve european telecommunications companies. that's all that's on your table. it's a lot, i know, and there's a lot of work. there are also important things ahead of us. that is what your resolution says, and what the group on electronic commerce, which your colleague pablo arias echeverría is very energetically leading, with the support of malcolm harbour, regularly notes. we are aware of this reality. i would therefore like to develop three areas of work on which we have made proposals. first, the potential of electronic commerce, with a normal public consultation period. we are now in the time of action, with two key areas that we have identified on this e-commerce issue. first, we will propose in the coming weeks an ambitious modernisation of electronic payment markets and services. we will be guided by the recommendations of mr terho's report. the package will include the revision of the payment services directive, as well as a specific, pragmatic legislative proposal on interchange fees. we must create the conditions for greater innovation in this sector, of course by developing competition, facilitating access for new consumers, but also - since i am talking about consumers - by offering more choice in their payment methods and more security, to dispel legitimate fears that we must address. secondly, we will propose in the autumn a more efficient and attractive system for crossborder parcel delivery and online parcel delivery, again in line with the proposals and report of mr arias echeverría, to improve the situation of consumers, and also for the benefit of businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses, who want to develop their crossborder online sales, and thus take advantage of the so-called 'long tail effect' created by the internet. the europe of the package has yet to be completed. cross-border deliveries are three to five times more expensive, often at comparable distances, and 68% of online orders are abandoned because of delivery problems. in order to meet this challenge, we are in close consultation with all those involved in crossborder deliveries and, in particular, ladies and gentlemen, with postal operators, whose will to make progress in this area i know. the second main objective is to continue the modernisation of the european copyright framework. the new online practices do not simply replicate 'physical' consumption. completely new services are being developed. the dematerialization of content facilitates the dissemination of culture, but it can also threaten or weaken the financial equilibrium of creation. copyright, which is historically based on territoriality, is thus challenged by the digital environment, which ignores borders. the commission believes that copyright should not be an obstacle to economic development. more than ever, it must be a 'facilitator', a driver of growth and innovation. in december 2012, we defined two lines of action. first, the process of licensing for europe. it is a dialogue between stakeholders that is engaged in finding concrete proposals, concrete remedies to the main frustrations of citizens and consumers, especially young people; for example, the inability to access audiovisual content such as catch-up tv on a cross-border basis. we've had several working group sessions in the last six months. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in parallel, the commission is actively pursuing its work on the legal and economic evaluation of the copyright acquis. our possible initiatives should be based on the precise and unquestionable identification of the real problems and the legislative solutions which could possibly be put in place. this is the work that will enable us to take a decision in 2014 on whether to submit proposals on the legislative side - i say the opportunity. third, we want to move with you towards a single telecommunications market. the commission shares your diagnosis of the weaknesses of the european telecommunications market, as mrs trautmann and mr rohde have clearly stated in their report and in their work. the european council, noting the ground lost by europe in telecommunications services in the face of global competition, called for the creation of a genuine single telecommunications market. we are working on measures to put two key principles of the treaty into practice: the freedom to provide services, so that any operator can offer the same services to all its customers, wherever they are in the union. secondly, the freedom for all europeans and businesses to benefit from the digital services of their choice, wherever they are in the union. it is a pragmatic approach to achieve concrete results. we intend to put forward concrete proposals, at the instigation of nellie kroes, at the very beginning of september, in preparation for the european council in october. that is why i think that parliament's critical but constructive support will be essential. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, an obvious priority will be the rapid adoption with you of the many proposals under discussion. we're putting our efforts into the long term. we will take all the initiatives quickly, such as the one i have just mentioned on telecommunications, and i would like to say that this resolution which you are discussing today is extremely important to encourage us, to also ensure that the commission does its job. the public debates we are going to be holding with many of you from the end of october to the end of november, as part of the single market month, are extremely important in trying to popularise, to animate the public debate on these issues of the public market in general and the digital single market in particular. our contribution to the october european council will be an important opportunity for the commission to identify the latest avenues of action to move forward with you on these digital single market issues before the end of your mandate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we should celebrate the progress towards the digital single market because this is an area where the eu has delivered tangible results for its citizens. earlier this week there was a further round of cuts to roaming charges. it has become the annual good news story at the start of the holiday season but we need to take the final steps and put in place a fully competitive single market in which roaming charges are obsolete. the commission has the support of the alde group in driving this forward. i would like to be able to tell my constituents that there will be an end to roaming charges not in five years time but next year. i also hope that by next summer we will have other good news on the digital agenda. i hope businesses, especially rural businesses, will have better access to the latest technologies, including superfast broadband. i hope that more initiatives will be underway to ensure that older people and people with disabilities are not excluded from the benefits that the digital age can offer and indeed that they are able to seize the opportunities which are there. i hope that i will be able to reassure businesses that european action is tackling cyber crime, and removing the barriers to cross-border trading such as the cross-border delivery problems mentioned by the commissioner. i also hope that our small businesses will be able to benefit from this initiative, not just the high-tech companies but the high-street traders as well. i would love to take the commissioner to see a very small business in the town of berwick-upon-tweed where a café has gone into online trade and is now delivering food hampers across the world. this is an area which is delivering growth and jobs across europe and there could not be anything more important at the present time, given the need that we have for those jobs, so i hope that we can move as quickly as possible to the completion of the digital single market.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think it is perhaps worth reminding the house that the core of the debate this morning is in fact a resolution from the parliament’s committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which has been proposed by me as chairman and pablo arias, who will be speaking after me, which puts the digital single market squarely at the centre of job creation and growth. i was delighted that fiona hall particularly, and antonio correia de campos, both picked up this point. but could i perhaps ask you, mr president, why – given that we have a parliamentary resolution on this topic – the authors of the resolution were not invited to open the debate? because that is centred around this proposal. although we are delighted to have the commissioner here to open the debate, i think it would have been good to frame it in the context of our resolution. i say that because the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has been working consistently on issues around the policies needed to energise and complete the digital single market for the whole time i have been chairman, but for the last six months pablo arias echeverría has been chairing an all-committee group with other committees involved – antonio correia de campos was involved in that as well – which have produced this resolution. i particularly want to thank the other committees who submitted points for the resolution. we have had the committee on legal affairs, the committee on transport and tourism, the committee on international trade, the committee on culture and education and the committee on employment and social affairs also submitting points. but our overall message, commissioner, as you have indicated, is that this is a highly complex and diverse issue. however, we think it does need a political framework to move it forward in the same way that we have encouraged, and you have picked up, the whole idea of a single market act. when it comes to the october summit, i am pleased that you indicated that ‘you were going to put the final lines of action down’ for the october summit. i think the whole idea of our resolution was to encourage you to do that before the summit and to actually put all that together, but maybe that will happen. that is the thrust of the message from us this morning and i invite colleagues to look at the detail of the resolution, which i am pleased has got complete support across this house. there are no amendments to this resolution, which indicates the engagement that everyone has had. i would just like to conclude by again picking up ms hall’s theme about jobs. i was at the digital agenda assembly last week, where i chaired a session on completing the digital single market. again there were many examples of the kind that she mentioned with her coffee shop in berwick-upon-tweed of people transforming their businesses by going online into the digital single market. this house has been absolutely behind a youth employment initiative and investing in it. we know there is a huge gap in digital skills. if we use that money to take young people with digital skills and place them in those sort of small businesses, and to energise and develop websites to transform their businesses, that would get them into employment and would make the european economy create even more jobs. i commend that to you as part of our work on the digital single market.
mr president, the completion of the digital single market will unlock the potential of the single market and this must be a key strategic priority for the eu. the digital single market could add eur 800 billion to the eu economy, which is the equivalent of eur 4 200 per household. the resolution therefore underlines the importance of political leadership in member states and by the eu institutions. a number of specific actions are proposed in order to complete the digital single market, such as investment in fixed and mobile networks, a review of the intellectual property rules and improved e-payment and delivery services. however, i am sceptical about a paragraph in the text which has come from the committee on legal affairs, calling for a european sales law. the ecr will vote to reject this paragraph as there is a severe lack of evidence on the need for or benefits of a common european sales law for businesses and consumers. nonetheless, i strongly support this resolution drafted by pablo arias echeverría and my colleague, malcolm harbour, which is a welcome step towards the completion of the digital single market.
mr president, thank you to mr arias echeverría, mr correia de campos and our chair for the debate today. i agreed with ms gebhardt’s point on digital inclusion, ms schaake’s point about open knowledge and ms del castillo vera’s point about public space. this is why i want to say something about libraries and access to books in an e-format, which is so very important. currently many libraries in the european union are being denied access to books in a digital format, because publishers are refusing to provide that format. knowledge should not come at a price and, after all, we want a knowledge-based economy. so, if we want to prevent the development of a ‘book apartheid’ between those who can afford books and those who cannot, we need coordinated action at european level. we currently have an opportunity to take such action if we want to ensure that libraries have books in an e-format, and this is absolutely critical for europe’s future.
rapporteur. − mr president, i want to start by warmly thanking colleagues from the different political groups who have worked on this report with me in an extremely constructive atmosphere. i also want to thank the many individuals and organisations – whether professional associations, non-governmental organisations or voluntary bodies – that have provided their direct experience and evidence about what is happening on the ground at the moment in our member states to those who are particularly vulnerable. we have tried to reflect their voices in this report and provide some ways forward. we take as our starting point the declaration that all human beings are born free, with equal dignity and equal rights, and we believe that it is the responsibility of member states to promote and guarantee those rights. we are also saying that the fundamental values of the european union should be respected even in a crisis situation, and access to care, healthcare and social assistance should be seen as a basic right for all within the european union. we know that times are hard in many countries, but we have also heard how political choices are making things harder. we have heard much in this parliament about the dire situation of young people without employment. yet some member states stop health insurance after a certain period of time out of work. it is the european year of citizens, yet some member states are making it more difficult for eu nationals to access healthcare to which they are entitled. the eu has a roma strategy, yet we still have many examples of prejudice affecting access to healthcare despite the existing eu legislation. the parliament welcomed the commission recommendation on children and the recognition of the need to invest in early years to enhance life chances, yet we are seeing an increasing number of children taken into care linked to family poverty, and others going without basic vaccinations. rising costs, falling income and cuts in services make it difficult to maintain the preventative services to which our governments have signed up, and we are storing up longer-term problems. we heard about those providing and receiving care: many of them informal carers, many becoming a vulnerable group in themselves. people with disabilities told us that not only are some places going back to old models of institutional care rather than supporting independent living, but the levels of hate crime against people with disabilities are rising as they are increasingly viewed as burdens. they are not the only groups now experiencing harassment or even violence. so the list of problems is long, but we also try to look at some solutions. some are straightforward, such as the provision of accurate and understandable information. tackling discrimination and extending the legal framework at eu level would also be seen as useful. but we have also called for member states to carry out social impact assessments on austerity measures and to address the shortfalls. the commission and member states, in cooperation with all relevant stakeholders, and that means vulnerable people themselves, should monitor and address – that is the active part in national reform plans – which policies run counter to the eu’s 2020 poverty reduction targets. we want the commission to include social safeguards protecting care and social services and social protection systems in agreements with countries in receipt of financial assistance. many of us find it incredible that that has not already been done. we want to see support for carers and are asking the commission to bring forward proposals for a carers’ leave directive. a social dialogue for the care sector could also help raise standards for the workforce. there are many other proposals in our report and i am sure we will hear those in the debate this morning. once again, i thank colleagues for their very active input and support in this important issue.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i do not want to exceed my speaking time, so i would just like to thank you once again for the lively debate today, for the report in its entirety, which will provide a very important impetus for our work. i would like to recall that the fight against poverty is one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. this is why considerable resources are also allocated to this specifically in the cohesion area, which is one of the thematic concentrations. i am convinced that in the next few years we will make significant progress in this area in the interests of our citizens.
rapporteur. − madam president, my thanks to colleagues who have taken part in today’s discussion. i think we have a great deal of consensus here. i just want to reiterate certain of the points, such as the issue of the social impact assessment of cuts that have been made. i think this is coming through as something which people feel is extremely important. i know that it was said that it was almost as if we were demanding of member states that they do additional homework that we should not be asking them to do. well, in my earlier life i was a teacher, so maybe i am used to asking people to do homework, but it is also the fact that our member states have signed up and made a number of commitments. it was pointed out that they signed up to the un convention on the rights of people with disabilities. that carries certain responsibilities and implications with it but, even in terms of the national reform plans, there are certain things there which our member states have agreed to do and agreed to share, and therefore the issue – whether it is about benchmarking, impact assessment or whatever – is about taking account of what they are doing and looking at how they are going to deal with the effects of that in terms of the anti-poverty targets, in terms also, as many have stressed, of the issues of human dignity and indeed what we consider to be solidarity within the european union and acceptable standards, which i think is extremely important. the issue about the growing inequalities is also something that i think we should really be concerned about. we are well aware of what the adverse impacts of health inequalities are for people’s life chances. there is a lot i think that can be done, even if you are not looking at particularly radical reform: at least close the gaps in systems that allow people to fall through them and lose their right to access care – people who were maybe working on temporary contracts or whatever and who therefore do not actually gain the health benefits that they might otherwise have done in full-term contracts. there are things that can be done to reduce the gaps, to reduce the barriers in terms of access to care. a lot of points have been made, as well, about the role of carers themselves. it is true – we have heard the figures from all of our member states about what it actually saves public services when people are caring on an informal basis – but that does need to be recognised. people should not be asked to give up their opportunities to work – their own work-life balance, as it were – to provide that ongoing service without some form of recognition. recognition within the pension system was mentioned, but it is also extremely important in terms of the support and the care of carers. there is more that can be done as well, we believe, in terms of actually improving the quality, the decent work side, of those who are providing care on a paid basis. given the future demands that we have seen, we need to address that very rapidly. yes, there is money there from the cohesion fund, not as much as many of us would have liked, but again that was a political choice made by our national governments, and indeed some in parliament, but we ought to make sure that this money is spent effectively and to the maximum. thank you again for the debate and we look forward to the follow-up action on this.
author. − madam president, i have used the 112 number. my assistant has used it too. i wonder how many other people here have done so. when i had to use the number i was very glad i knew that it was 112. but half of the british people who travelled to another eu country last year did not know that number. so we need to do more work on promoting 112 in an effective way, and i would like to hear from the commission on how they intend to galvanise member states to do this. however, the main aspect of the oral question that i want to focus on concerns access for people with disabilities. millions of eu citizens do not have access to 112 at present because they are deaf or hard of hearing or have speech difficulties. they are currently denied the right to an efficient rescue service because 112 is currently only a voice service in most countries. in its written declaration no 35/2011, parliament urged the commission to ensure equal access to 112 for disabled users. the commission funded the reach 112 project some years ago, which concluded that deaf and hard-of-hearing people would not enjoy an accessible 112 until the next generation 112 service based on internet protocol technology was deployed. such a service could also provide more data to emergency call centres’ personnel in cases of emergency. in its 5 july 2011 resolution, parliament also asked for funds to be allocated specifically to support the testing and implementation of innovative services based on voiceover internet and internet protocol access to 112, which could be initiated through network-independent applications in anticipation of the establishment of the next generation 112 system in the eu. such a testing programme would also provide guidance on the regulations that could apply to voiceover internet providers and network operators. i would be grateful if the commission could tell us about the specific steps that have been taken to support the deployment of the next generation 112 service in europe and also the time frame for funding this important programme.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, how many european citizens, including uk citizens for that matter, know that wherever they are in the european union they should be able to reach emergency services using the 112 number? and i do say ‘should’. it is one of the really concrete tools that we offer citizens and it can protect, it can help their security when travelling around europe and even save lives in certain circumstances. but there is a big issue of awareness of 112. the citizen is simply not aware of this service. there is also a big problem with the member states and their implementation. the commission has so far launched 17 infringement procedures against 15 countries, due to either lack of availability, lack of caller location, or inappropriate handling of 112 calls. the implementation of 112 is crucial if we also want to development ecall, as mrs sehnalová has just pointed out. this system is installed in cars and it is triggered if an accident takes place. we need to make sure that member states improve the functioning of 112 so that it is able to handle these automatic calls from cars before – and i have said this in previous debates – before it becomes mandatory for all new cars to have this system installed. a further point is mobile coverage. given that you still need to be able to make a mobile phone call to reach 112. i would like to ask the commission two questions: have the member states really made their systems ready to deal with 112 calls and ecalls and, also, given the massive cuts in the connecting europe facility, what are the future plans of the commission with regard to mobile coverage across europe, particularly in rural areas where we know that currently mobile coverage is very patchy? this system is simply not going to have the confidence of the people if it does not work simply because in many areas there is no mobile coverage.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in a way it is disappointing that yet again this parliament has to keep pressure on the commission on this crucial issue. i pay tribute to colleagues who have worked on this but – given that the universal service directive, on which i was the rapporteur, was passed in 2002 and called for the full implementation of 112 including caller location information, and that this call was supplemented by my report on reforming universal service provision in 2009, and also by mr schwaab’s contribution to the consumer rights directive – is it not about time that member states stepped up to accept their responsibility? i want to talk about something that my colleagues have not talked about, which is this question of caller location data, offering the fantastic possibility of additional information to help people in an emergency. it will be vital indeed for the ecall services which mr bennion talked about earlier. provision for this was clearly in the 2002 text, and member states were asked to get together to come up with common technical standards for reliable, speedy and accurate information. they have yet to do so, although we know the necessary technology is available. i insist that the commission should get its act together on the technical standards for caller location, in conjunction with ecall, as soon as possible, and that we should not accept any further unnecessary delays.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, we need to be able to give the 112 number the attention and promotion it deserves, and to that end i would like to ask the commissioner what else could be done. although in 2011 the european parliament adopted a resolution on this 112 emergency number which called for greater implementation and promotion of the number, the results have unfortunately been uneven and insufficient as far as you have heard in this chamber today. it is to be regretted that in a recent eurobarometer survey just over a quarter of respondents could correctly identify 112 as a number to call anywhere in europe in case of an emergency. indeed in my own country, ireland, just 14% of the population when asked could say that they received any information on the number, despite the expectation that member states and governments would inform their citizens of its existence. this is one of the worst levels in europe but many other countries are doing little better. as we approach the holiday season, with millions of europeans travelling abroad with family members young and old, it is pertinent to remember the importance of 112, which evidently needs more promotion. now i recently became a 112 champion as i want to play my part in raising awareness but i also share the concerns that were expressed by ms hall in her contribution about the importance of equal access to 112 for those who are deaf or hard of hearing.
madam president, connected tv is an exciting innovation. the hardware and the hyper-platforms are already common in many homes, but we are standing at the beginning of this revolution when it comes to the development of the software. this report highlights the challenges in areas such as media pluralism, advertising and protection for minors. it also stresses the need to ensure fair competition between european content suppliers which are governed by eu legislation and major international platforms which are not. we also need to look at the rules governing advertising in the audiovisual media and the protection of minors. they do not currently apply to the internet. we are therefore calling on the commission to consider an appropriate european framework ensuring that content quality and integrity are the same, whether it is broadcast or supplied by an alternative media platform. finally i would like to highlight the fact that there are still vast areas of the uk and across europe with poor internet infrastructures. unless we can address these challenges, connected tv will be a luxury which can only be enjoyed by citizens living in urban areas with high internet speeds. but i recommend the report and i will be voting in favour of it.
mr president, i have long considered myself a strong friend of georgia, which has made great strides in its democratic transition since the rose revolution overthrew the dictatorship about ten years ago. while many of us continue to look with unease at the difficult relations between president saakashvili at the end of his mandate and prime minister ivanishvili, there does appear to be some cause for concern with regard to the overall situation for human rights in that country. nevertheless, we must be vigilant. my group still supports a system of macro-financial assistance, which will assist the georgian authorities in developing their infrastructure and we do hope they are moving closer also towards eu integration with the enp. it is in all our interests to see a strong, prosperous and democratic georgia ahead of the fresh presidential election scheduled for october. we must hope that this new tranche of money will help it achieve these goals.
in writing. − my party opposes this move as it does little more than waste taxpayers’ money in an attempt to get better access to caucasian natural resources and to create a stronger eu presence in the region. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − this economic assistance to georgia is intended to assist it in its recovery from regional conflicts and build up its economy. the funding is accompanied by a memorandum of understanding between the commission and the georgian government detailing the structural reforms expected to take place.
mr president, i think all of us, left and right in this chamber, have been alarmed to discover the extent to which data is harvested and processed in secret and with minimal scrutiny. i would just caution against displacement. all intelligence agencies gather data and all of them can then use it for purposes other than the immediate foiling of terrorist threats. one of the interesting wikileaks revelations was that a german satellite company was protesting about the extent to which the french government habitually practised industrial espionage through its intelligence services in germany. it was described as the most predatory such operation since the soviet union – something confirmed by the former french head of intelligence services in an interview in 1991. i would not be at all surprised if every member state government represented in this chamber was doing the same thing. our job is to keep an eye on what happens primarily in the european union. let us not lose sight of that as we lob rocks across the atlantic.
in writing. − while i appreciate that attacks on the internet are a very serious matter, deserving of a criminal sanction, i believe that legislation in this area, and indeed criminal law as a whole, should remain the prerogative of the individual member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it penalises the production, sale, procurement for use, import, distribution or otherwise making available of devices/tools used for committing the offences and includes aggravating circumstances.
mr president, all governments have secret intelligence services so it is hardly surprising that the us gathers intelligence through the national security agency, although perhaps a little surprising that it does so from allies, and in particular from eu delegations. however, the calls for suspension of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) are exaggerated, as all governments allegedly spy on one another. chinese and russian spies regularly spy on our embassies and no one is suggesting ending trade relations with them. the correct response is a vigorous démarche by the eu and to beef up security in eu delegations worldwide. similarly, i have little sympathy for so-called whistle-blowers like edward snowden, who has betrayed the trust of his employers and, more importantly, his own country, the usa, which is perfectly entitled to prosecute him under criminal law. this is not to say that i do not support reasonable data protection measures and the right to privacy for private citizens. for instance, i do not think it is reasonable that a us citizen should have a right of redress against eu governments abusing his privacy on eu member state territory, and not the other way round in the usa. clearly there must be a symmetrical arrangement for all countries.
mr president, there is a measure of hypocrisy from everybody on this issue. in the aftermath of some terrorist event the cry goes up from all the newspapers and all the politicians that something must be done: we need to intercept the data and we must not allow these people to get away on account of our namby-pamby concerns over civil liberties. then, of course, the same newspapers and the same politicians complain furiously a few weeks later about privacy. let us try to be consistent. there should only be a proportionate reaction on the basis of an identified threat to security. much of what has been done in the name of national security, particularly in the 12 years since the 9/11 attacks, would not have had any impact either on that occasion or on subsequent ones. it is legislation passed for the sake of showing that we are doing something; it is legislation passed in proportion to public outrage rather than the need to solve a specific identified threat. we are told it is necessary. necessity, said pitt the younger, ‘is the plea for every infringement of human freedom. it is the argument of tyrants; it is the creed of slaves.’
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe the recent actions by the us government and some member states constitute a serious violation to the rights of eu citizens. however i think the resolution could and should have gone further and called for the immediate granting of asylum by eu member states. i find it ridiculous that no member state is willing to help the man who uncovered this gross abuse of their citizens' right to privacy. it is a pity that this was not included, a wasted opportunity. there needs to be immediate repercussions and guarantees as a result of these findings, especially with regards to the transatlantic trade and partnership agreement with the us. i hope this resolution is the first of many stands the eu will take on this issue to condemn these actions.
in writing. − we as a party condemn spying in eu representations and call on the us authorities to provide full information on these allegations without further delay.
in writing. − whilst uk conservatives strongly believe that the rule of law, transparency, and checks and balances are key to any democracy and fight against terrorism, we acknowledge that member states must comply with data protection rules and fundamental rights. however, the uk conservatives also acknowledge that national security is a member state competence. furthermore, we do not support an enquiry or report by parliament until there are facts available and, more importantly, we strongly reject any calls to implicate the us-eu free trade agreement, or for the freezing of essential anti-terror measures.
mr president, this report shows the push towards state building at eu level, while eu actions are hollowing out democracy at member state level by restricting the political choices available to parliaments and governments, particularly in the social and economic field. the irish government’s refusal to fight to retain ireland’s current number of seats was a disgrace and showed contempt for the irish people’s right to fair representation in the eu. now there are serious practical difficulties in ireland with regard to the european elections, due to the fact that constituency boundaries need to be redrawn. the lack of clarity gives incumbents an unfair advantage, which suits the parties of government in ireland who want to do everything to minimise what many people believe will be their inevitable losses in the next election.
mr president, as the public in the united kingdom continue to inch towards exit from the european union, it is wonderful, brave indeed, to see our liberal democrats continuing their quixotic battles for european federalism. this report contains all of the attributes and trappings of a pan-european federal democracy. they want an elected president of europe, they want pan-european political parties funded by the taxpayers contesting elections on common and binding cross-border manifestos, and even – and this is my particular favourite – party election broadcasts on behalf of gue, the s&d, and so on. it is just so wonderful there is almost nothing i can say to improve it, except this. when you try to herd the voters into your pre-arranged destination, when you decide that they must be european and that the problem is with them for not seeing it, you put yourself not just on the wrong side of public opinion but on the wrong side of history.
in writing. − this report is a classic example of eu propaganda. the moves outlined will actually produce more known pan-european parties and make them more likely to be chosen. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i do not support some of its recommendations, such as political broadcasts by candidates for the commission presidency.
mr president, if you look around the world at the areas where the european union is striking out a distinctive foreign policy position, separate from the rest of the western world, the most outstanding is the decision to lift the arms embargo on beijing. it trumps the decision to fund hamas, the decision not to deal with the anti-castro dissidents in cuba and the decision to engage with the ayatollahs in iran. those weapons are wanted by red china for a purpose; they would be used. the idea that we have taken the decision in principle, even if we have not yet shipped any arms, to arm that regime against our allies, against those countries which have done the right thing and reformed their democratic and economic system, i think is a shame upon this chamber.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as i do not believe that the eu should be allowed to exert this level of control over arms exports.
in writing. − i voted against this report as the rise in duties it outlines is likely to negatively impact on the uk’s lamb and cheese suppliers.
in writing. − since 1 january 2013, eu exporters of certain cheeses, lamb and beef to norway have faced duties of 277 %, 429 % and 344 % respectively. these duties arguably breach both the european economic area agreement and the latest eu-norway agreement on farm trade preferences, in force since january 2012. therefore i voted against the increase in norwegian duties on agricultural products in the interests of welsh agriculture.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i believe that the dual legislation will be confusing for the uk’s consumers and would therefore be against consumer interests.
in writing. − this resolution is parliament’s contribution to commissioner barnier’s forthcoming initiative on the digital single market. a digital single market can help overcome discrepancies amongst member states and regions in terms of employment, social inclusion, and combating poverty. it is important that we in europe work together to solve problems and improve the lives of citizens, both in wales and in other nations.
in writing. − this resolution on completing the digital single market is an ambitious initiative that has my full support. it is vitally important that the eu, with its 500 million consumers, has a competitive digital single market that can transform the eu into a knowledge-driven economy. as the resolution states, smes make up 99% of european businesses and as such are vital to the european economy. their connection to the digital economy is vital in the creation of employment and growth, and also to their increased contribution to innovation and r&d. broadband access is key and has been an important issue of late in wales so i am pleased to see it addressed in the resolution. high-speed internet access for all will ensure that businesses as well as consumers are well connected and can contribute fully to the economy.
mr president, as the revelations continue this week in the south of ireland regarding the frankly disgusting actions and words of certain bankers, facilitated by a compliant fianna fáil government, it has become even more pertinent that we are aware of the terrible impact the crisis they created has had on society, and on the most vulnerable in particular. children and young people, the elderly, carers, the unemployed and people with disabilities are all at serious risk of social exclusion as a result of the so-called austerity policies. the continuation of cuts for persons with disabilities is shameful. all people should have the right to enjoy their full human rights and live in dignity. cuts to vital services and in basic standards of living have an increased impact on those with disabilities, who need to be protected and not persecuted by governments. in the north of ireland, where the british government is implementing and pushing forward so-called welfare reform cuts, people on disability living allowance feel that they are being persecuted, not protected.
mr president, access to health care, social services and welfare benefits are all areas which have been affected by the economic crisis in europe. with pathways to care threatened by this necessary fiscal contraction, it is hardly surprising that vulnerable groups, sadly, have also been affected. i am deeply supportive of initiatives designed to protect the long-term unemployed, elderly and disabled. however, i am hesitant to support some of the measures suggested by this report, which is far too intrusive. the proposal, for instance, calling for member states to carry out social impact assessments of austerity measures is inappropriate for a problem which requires a national solution and national policies. in my own london constituency the main statutory agencies, local councils, the police and nhs organisations work hard together in helping vulnerable groups within our society. so local enforcement needs to be ensured and efforts need to be directed at a national rather than a european level. in linking national issues to the poverty targets contained within the eu 2020, this report focuses far too much on a one-size-fits-all solution which is inappropriate. i therefore voted against it.
in writing. − abstain. i abstained from voting in this case as, while i agree with some of the measures outlined, i believe that the uk should be allowed complete control over provisions made in this area.
in writing. − due to the situation in relation to lack of access to care, healthcare, preventive medicines and basic services in crisis countries; i voted in favour to give a voice to those speaking for the most vulnerable. i receive many emails from constituents in wales deeply concerned about the hardships caused by public spending cuts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the report’s conclusions that the economic crisis is having a negative impact on access to care and that this should be addressed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on the impact of the financial crisis on citizens’ access to care. care services are vital to public health and to society as a whole, yet the effects of austerity, alongside high rates of unemployment, mean that care services are being subjected to increased pressure. carers – who are already underpaid, overworked and very often underappreciated for the hard work they do – are finding that their problems have been exacerbated by the economic crisis. this report makes some very positive recommendations on how to improve access to care services and reduce some of the strain felt by care workers at a time of economic uncertainty, and it has my full support.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as i am against this project as a whole.
in writing. − a connected tv is a hybrid television which receives both traditional linear content and internet content. this type of tv is increasingly becoming the norm, and as such, needs to be regulated in order to ensure consumer protection and privacy, and to safeguard the quality and freedom of information. i voted in favour of this report which will increase consumer protection and face the challenges for the industry as a whole. this is important for my constituents in wales as consumers of connected tv content.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it tackles the implications of the convergence of media services, the way these services are delivered and consumed, and their future impact on legal instruments.
in writing. − against. my party was against croatia’s accession as, in this time of deep austerity, taxpayers simply cannot afford to pay even higher bills to fund the federalist dream. the accession of romania and bulgaria clearly shows that the ex-communist countries have such poor economic conditions that they need more time to recover themselves, without having tough eu rules imposed on them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the la via report which concerns the financing of croatia’s accession to the eu. croatia’s membership of the eu comes at a time when the eu’s overall budget has been cut, and so it is vital that we manage the budget closely and wisely. i opposed the cuts to the budget as it results in cuts to wales’ funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is necessary for the budget to be amended to take into account the accession of croatia.
in writing. − i welcome the accession of croatia to the eu this week. this is the first eu country to join the union since 2007, and i am pleased that after long negotiations, the appropriate additional funding to cover the costs relating to its accession has been agreed. the additional funding (eur 374 million in payment appropriations, eur 655.1 million in commitment appropriations) will not be used for administrative funding, as this was already taken account of in the 2013 budget. i agree with the rapporteur’s regret that this amending budget was agreed so late on in the budgetary process, but am pleased that parliament’s position to push for fresh resources, as set out in the current mff, was achieved.
in writing. − against. my party was against croatia’s accession as, in this time of deep austerity, taxpayers simply cannot afford to pay even higher bills to fund the federalist dream. the accession of romania and bulgaria clearly shows that the ex-communist countries have such poor economic conditions that they need more time to recover themselves, without having tough eu rules imposed on them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the budget must be amended to take into account croatia’s accession.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i believe that the measures it outlines will prove destructive to the city and will essentially lead to the uk having to contribute more.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it lacks ambition and is too weak in its scope. the commission work programme sets out the commission’s priorities and what it sets out to achieve over the year. however we need stronger action and a stronger set of priorities in order to help bring the eu out of the global financial crisis and improve life for its citizens. we need a real debate on the future of the eu and wales’ place within it.
in writing. − while i still hold huge concerns about human rights in the region, the current situation shows that eu involvement in egypt is a complete waste of both eu effort and taxpayers’ money.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the situation in egypt following the military intervention. the report stresses that power should be transferred to democratically-elected civilian authorities as soon as possible. my constituents in wales want to show solidarity with those who cherish democratic aspirations for their country.
author. − mr president, as perhaps one of the few members of this house who has actually visited djibouti, i can advise colleagues that, having been to this country, it does have a lot to recommend it, by way of a marvellous combination of french and somali cuisine and culture on the red sea. nevertheless, it remains beyond doubt that there are serious deficiencies in its governance and that djibouti’s authoritarian leadership regularly suppresses fundamental freedoms and restricts the actions of civil society and political opponents. in my role as rapporteur for the horn of africa, i have always been clear that this region’s stability, security and prosperity must be accompanied by the construction and consolidation of truly democratic institutions and by the authorities’ full respect for human rights and the rule of law. to this extent, we have numerous concerns about the allegations of widespread fraud in the recent elections, by violence against demonstrators and by the alleged ongoing detention of around 60 political prisoners. nevertheless, we must also take into account the reports of election observers in djibouti who regarded the vote in february as transparent and further noted that it was the first vote to feature multiple opposition candidates, which of course is something we should celebrate. this surely bodes well for the future, provided that the djibouti authorities commit to further reforms and meaningful change. djibouti is a small state which could flourish and which deserves our full support in the european union. it has contributed significantly in the fight against terrorism and maritime piracy. there are bases from japan, from european countries, also the eu navfor atalanta csdp anti-piracy mission regularly docks there, and we must continue to offer its forces support in this regard. but this must be accompanied by diplomatic pressures to release the political dissidents and free up the instruments of political opposition and democratic engagement. as the former french somalia, djibouti has certainly proved more successful and stable than its former italian counterpart. my personal dream is also to see djibouti, somaliland and somalia stand side by side in the horn of africa as safe, prosperous, independent nation states. i believe we should do everything in our power to help the countries of this region to get there.
mr president, nigeria is the largest country in sub-saharan africa and a massive holder of oil and other minerals. it plays a strategic and regional role in the african union and ecowas. sadly, since nigeria’s independence, it has been characterised by successive military governments and widespread corruption, so it is a welcome relief now to see a democratic government in power. sadly, human rights are still a problem, particularly lgbt rights. but recently the rise in boko haram, an islamist terrorist group linked to al-qa’ida, is posing a serious threat to the security of the federal state and risks escalating into a widespread southern christian and northern muslim confrontation and serious ‘splittism’ in the country. there are already 4 000 dead as a result of this. the eu must do everything now in its power to help stabilise this fragile country and help bring the perpetrators of these terrorist atrocities to justice.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. − mr president, the united kingdom has decided not to opt in to the eu’s property rights regime for married couples and those in registered partnerships. this is because the concept of a matrimonial property regime in the sense understood in most member states does not exist in the uk. in those countries which have a similar understanding of what matrimonial property represents, i hope this legislation will help simplify issues for people in cross-state marriages and partnerships whose union ends in divorce or death. i highlighted two issues in my opinion for the committee on women’s rights and i would like to bring them up again. the first is that of vulnerable spouses. women are often more vulnerable than men, and i put forward recommendations which, in the situation of financial dependency or in circumstances related to domestic violence, would provide additional protection for those at risk. the second issue is equality. whilst i worked on the legislation for matrimonial property regimes, i welcome the parallel rules for those in registered partnerships and, as i wrote in my opinion, all citizens should be afforded the same level of equality and rights, regardless of the nature of their union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am very happy about the road map on procedural rights for defendants, not least as i was privileged to be the rapporteur on the first one, the right to interpretation and translation; then of course there was the letter of rights. but this directive is probably even more important than the previous two. the whole road map needs to be completed to significantly raise the standards of criminal justice eu-wide to go alongside the european arrest warrant and other policing and mutual recognition measures. we are already more than a decade after the eaw, so clearly it is urgent to bolster defence rights. there are some key achievements in this directive, and i pay strong tribute to ms antonescu in her work. i would just highlight a few of them. there is the fact that it applies to all suspects and accused, irrespective of whether they are deprived of liberty, and that it guarantees the effective participation of the lawyer, not just tolerating the lawyer sitting in a corner of the room. it obliges member states to take positive steps – at least for detained defendants – to ensure they are able to exercise their right to contact a lawyer. this makes sure that the rights in the directive are practical and effective. also, as vice-president reding mentioned, it gives the right of dual representation to people subject to european arrest warrant proceedings at both ends of the process. being a british mep i make no secret of my desire for the uk to opt in to this directive. we have a strong domestic regime in britain ensuring legal advice. i thank ms antonescu and the other shadows for their willingness to be flexible and to accommodate a common law system like the uk’s. i believe a uk opt-in would strengthen the operation of the directive, and i sincerely hope the government reaches the conclusion that it wants to opt in. under future topics needing attention under the road map, i would just also emphasise the need to tackle the scandal of long pre-trial detention.
mr president, whilst this might not yet apply to the uk, there are issues of wider concern. the substantive content of the proposal is completely sound. suspects should indeed enjoy access to a lawyer as well as the other rights listed. however, in my view, there is no need for eu legislation, and indeed such legislation would not satisfy the need completely. the eu is not – not yet at least – the whole world and people travelling internationally do not restrict their visits to other member states. what is needed is not eu legislation but an international treaty encompassing as many countries as possible throughout the world, to the effect that the rights listed should apply with reciprocity to all countries that are signatories. i cannot help feeling that this proposal is not so much about the rights of the suspect, with eu legislation being the means. it is much more about extending eu legislation competence and the rights of the suspect are simply a means to an end.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, like everyone else here, i have certainly spent a lot of time looking at the details of this proposal. i took myself back to first principles and the first thing i thought about was stability. the current policy has objectives in place to 2020. the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive set in train actions and investments across industry and agriculture in europe. in order to justify changing these, i would need to be convinced that any adverse effects were of a magnitude and scale necessitating immediate action. maybe the introduction of indirect land-use change (iluc) factors could begin to provide this evidence: maybe, but not in the format currently proposed. i do not believe that the international food policy research institute (ifpri) model is fit for purpose. the inputs and the outputs are simply not credible. the science behind it is still in its infancy and cannot be used to justify a major policy shift such as this. as an example of the limitations of the approach, i do not believe that we should look at iluc only as far as biofuels are concerned. what about clothing, where europeans consume vast amounts of cotton, only to throw garments away as fashions change? i do support measures to increase the proportion of biofuels from advanced technologies but, rather than indulge in the smoke-and-mirrors methodology of multiple counting, i would prefer to see a clear target by 2020. this is the open, transparent and honest way to proceed. in fact, i believe that this one element alone could go a long way towards improving our biofuel mix in europe. i find the package from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety hopelessly complicated and there is a real danger of producing a piece of regulatory nonsense if we are not careful.
mr president, we do need a stable, coherent and scientifically-based policy for the biofuels sector in the european union. there is an entire biofuel supply chain, from the farmer to the consumer, at stake in this debate. existing policy has led to the pendulum swinging too far in the direction of first generation biofuel usage. the initial concept behind biofuels was not – and continues not to be – a bad policy decision. it is absolutely essential that we reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. what is more, the biofuels industry provided an important source of on-farm diversification for the agriculture sector and helped to reduce the eu-wide reliance on the import of protein and animal feed. however, in the light of the serious iluc and food security concerns, it has become essential that we re-establish the equilibrium and the pendulum. it is extremely important that we facilitate production by arable farmers across the european union in order to meet the challenges of a growing global population and ensure that the demand is met for food, feed and fuel markets while concurrently ensuring legitimate protection for the environment. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, can i take this opportunity to thank mr tarabella for this very good question. he is quite right to think that many of us question whether it was wise to spend the six billion, but we have an old saying where i came from: ‘on the one hand and on the other hand’. this, i think, is where we are in this debate. we are in the middle somewhere and we have not found the right place to be. yes, it is right that we should be developing more alternatives within our own european union. yes, it is right that we should be less dependent and, yes – and i throw it back at you, marc, because i know you will not agree – should we not be using more gmo grain in europe to actually encourage this and even defeat disease? there are many opportunities out there. let us look at them but i think that we in the european union are in danger of not getting it right at any stage. let us try and get something right at this moment in time. i do not think we have.
mr president, the eu is finally coming to its senses about biofuels and reversing its policies. hopefully, it will not be too little, too late. my party, ukip, has opposed since day one subsidies for crops that grow oil rapeseed for biofuel instead of wheat for bread. it is practically taking food off the plate and putting it into the petrol tank. the eu is seeking to cut subsidies for biofuel. we in ukip would like to see them abolished altogether. what we want is to end this ugly spectacle of farmers reaping subsidies instead of food crops. the price of food in manchester in my constituency goes up and the price of food in morocco and mozambique also goes up, all because of the eu’s wrong-minded policies. a report by the eu joint research centre shows that the price of vegetable oil and other foods would be halved in europe if we ended biofuels and had no subsidies. these subsidies are the hard-earned taxes of the uk taxpayer. we would all rather keep that cash in our pockets rather than throw it away on biofuel subsidies. now here is the real point. many say that this is all in aid of fighting so-called global warming due to man-made carbon emissions. this is increasingly discredited as a climate theory. figures only released this week show that the world has not warmed for 20 years. indeed, only in this year the arctic ice cap has increased by 60%, which proves that it is as likely to grow as it is to shrink. so let us just admit it. eu biofuels and the subsidies are all about buying farmers’ votes and wielding power. they are not about putting power in fuel tanks at all. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr nuttall, you and ukip will no doubt be aware that for most farmers throughout europe it is impossible to grow continuous wheat crops. oilseed crops are actually a very valuable break crop; they break the cycle in terms of weeds; they break the cycle in terms of disease. you have a suggestion that you are going to outlaw oilseed crops and you are telling us that it will take bread off people’s plates. therefore, what advice would you have for farmers for what they should do for a break crop?
blue-card answer. – mr ashworth, you have not listened to me or else you are partially hard of hearing. i did not say we are going to outlaw anything: i said we should do away with subsidies. quite frankly, this is british taxpayers’ money. this is pushing up the price of food and it is wrong. we are in the middle of a recession and i put it to you that i would rather the price of food be reduced than line the pockets of rich farmers in the uk – and actually not just the uk but right across europe. biofuels are a failed experiment.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteur for all the hard work that has gone into this very difficult file. the eu’s biofuel policy has been mostly influenced by the 10% targets set for the renewable transport fields. this target has seen a significant scale-up for such fuels in europe, and also in the developing world. it has become clear that it is now necessary to take indirect land-use change factors into account when calculating the greenhouse gas emissions savings attributable to biofuels. i have been contacted by hundreds of constituents – as i am sure many other members have too – concerned about the devastating effects certain biofuels could have on fuel prices, carbon emissions and land-use rights for indigenous peoples, and i have to say i share those concerns, as do ngos and many others. forests and large areas of agricultural land are being cleared for growing biofuels to keep up with europe’s demand. it is essential that, if used to meet a renewable target, they must fulfil the carbon emissions reduction and social responsibility requirements expected of them. i would have preferred – and will continue to work for – an even lower cap, but will support a compromise as i believe action needs to be taken now. in the meantime we should be encouraging the use of truly renewable energy and energy efficiency in the area of transport.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, investing in a property is the single largest financial decision that most people will ever make in their lives, but property markets in europe vary very widely. in hungary, estonia, and bulgaria i believe nine out of 10 people own their own houses; in germany it is less than half. we cannot have a one-size-fits-all set of rules across europe for home ownership. and european legislation can have unnecessary unintended consequences. earlier drafts of this legislation would have completely shut down the uk private rental market – that is five million households in the uk. now, 150 amendments and three years later, with help from people from other countries, i have stopped that battle. i would say that colleagues from other uk parties have been completely invisible in trying to protect these residents’ interests in this discussion. i know that many people in europe were badly treated by banks in the run-up to the crisis. there was irresponsible information, incorrect information, sometimes misleading information, and i am not opposed to efforts to try and give people better information, but we do not need a very rigid key information package for people, because fundamentally most people want to buy homes in the place that they want to live and they are not trying to compare offers across borders. i think we could have done more of this by looking at best practice through equivalence regimes and not having this rigid package. it will, i am afraid, add more costs for the lenders and these will again be passed on to consumers. many households are still struggling with their household bills, with their mortgage payments, and first-time buyers are struggling to get a foot in the market. i am afraid i am not as positive as some others about needing this directive in the first place. i think we have to protect consumers but we do not need a one-size-fits-all approach to home ownership in europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, not for the first time i rise to give the house the benefit of my 35 years’ experience in financial services – rather more, i suspect, than the rest of you put together. let me put you right on how this all started. it started with something called the community reinvestment act in the usa, and the reason the whole thing has gone wrong is political interference. we have been talking today, have we not, about due diligence in banking? well, the community reinvestment act actually stopped banks carrying out due diligence checks. it became illegal to inquire of a borrower whether he could or could not repay the loan, and that is when you saw the invention of subprime mortgages, which had never existed before. it was political interference in the market which caused the subprime crisis. add to that the bubble in the property market created by criminal, fraudulent central bankers printing money and artificially restraining interest rates, as central banks are still doing now. the us federal reserve is still doing it, the european central bank, the bank of japan, the bank of england: they are all at it, counterfeiting money. so we are lending money now at far too cheap a rate. we just print more money, and we are going to have another bubble and we are going to do the whole thing all over again! allow me to close with one point which you clearly do not understand: if it is impossible to foreclose on a mortgage, nobody will give you a mortgage. that is how the market works. leave it to the market, caveat emptor, and let people get on with it without interference from politicians who, frankly, do not know what they are talking about.
rapporteur. − mr president, as ever i want to place on record my thanks to everyone: to my shadows; to you, commissioner barnier; to the irish presidency in particular; and to all our staff and experts who worked extremely hard to help me as rapporteur to deliver these new rules on market abuse, enabling us to vote today on a tougher and more comprehensive set of rules, which i believe will be fit for a fast-moving, high-tech financial world. this week sees the fifth anniversary – on 15 september – of the collapse of lehman brothers, which triggered turmoil in the global financial markets. some argue that the culture which caused the crisis persists in the financial world, particularly as instances of abuse continue to hit the headlines. these new rules on market abuse are therefore a cornerstone of the programme of financial reform and rehabilitation necessary to restore trust and confidence in the markets. they are essential to ensure that we tackle the problem of what one financial commentator has described as greed and finance getting the whip hand over judgment, prudence and probity. in july 2012, the libor (london interbank offered rate) scandal was an illustration of greed and market manipulation of the worst kind: manipulation of the most crucial interest rate in global finance, which underpins around usd 350 trillion in derivatives and usd 10 trillion in loans. regulators in the eu and london were caught unawares because the existing market abuse rules did not cover abuse of non-financial instruments and benchmarks. as a result, the imposition of large fines and the initial prosecution of the libor scandal were carried out by the us regulator, the commodity futures trading commission (cftc), with individual traders being called to prosecution in the us by the department of justice. i believe the litmus test of our new market abuse rules will be whether we are able to use them to capture potential or emerging abuses and whether they are tough enough to be a deterrent and to sanction abusive practices. surely none of us believes that the best way to serve justice in the eu is to extradite those who commit abuses to the us, where they face tougher sanctions and longer jail sentences? so the rules we are voting on today not only close the libor loophole, but also extend the scope of market abuse rules beyond financial instruments to benchmarks and indices. this is particularly relevant and important amid press rumours and speculation that we are now seeing manipulation in energy markets – in the oil and gas sector – as well as potential manipulation in foreign exchange markets. these rules provide regulators with a range of tough tools, including more severe sanctions and penalties, a lifetime ban for those committing abuse, and essential protection for whistleblowers. they give regulators the tools they need to monitor, detect and prosecute market abuse, because we know that it is difficult to gather evidence of such abuse. so, colleagues, i ask you to vote to support these rules. they tackle serious gaps in the regulation of new markets, platforms and over-the-counter trading in financial instruments; close the loopholes for libor, benchmarks, commodities and commodity derivatives; remove obstacles to effective enforcement for regulators; and introduce legal certainty to ensure their effectiveness and ensure that all market abuse can be subject to criminal sanctions. i am also pleased to report that, with these rules, we have taken the first step towards a system of cross-border surveillance. given that regulators have informed us that in one case more than seven eu member states were involved in information-gathering, i think this is a very important step forward. finally, today’s vote sends a clear signal to those intent on committing market abuse that the eu is not a soft option or a safe haven. in fact, we have broad public support for the new rules that we will introduce with today’s vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am very wary of those who think a vote on this regulation is the end of the story. the original market abuse directive has been in place for the entire financial crisis and the many scandals of libor (the london interbank offered rate) and product mis-selling that we have seen across the eu in recent years have occurred despite the existence of legislation in individual member states and in countries around the world. having rules is not good enough. this has to be about effective supervision and enforcement. the competent national authorities on the ground need to make it clear that abusive practices will not be tolerated, and fines need to be set at such a high level as to be a genuine deterrent. personally i am disappointed at the low level set in this legislation as a maximum fine that can be levied for market abuse: 15% of turnover is simply the price of doing business in some markets, and i fear it will not be an effective deterrent for some players. recently, european banks found guilty of market manipulation by us authorities have been fined amounts ranging from usd 100 to usd 1 billion, on the basis not of their turnover but of the impact their actions have had on others. it is time that the eu as a whole enforced our market legislation on abuse firmly and successfully and prosecuted individuals and institutions across all our markets. in the interests of market confidence, i hope that my own member state and as many others as possible will use the discretion given to them in this legislation to go further and make certain that financial crime does not pay. deterrents, including punitive fines and, where necessary, criminal sanctions, need to be applied.
rapporteur. − mr president, again i want to thank, in particular, my shadows for their commitment to what was a very detailed piece of work and a very complex dossier. perhaps that is why ms swinburne misunderstood: what we have here are indeed minimum sanctions, they are not maximum. there is discretion to go further and indeed, as she has requested, we have also asked member states to put in more resources so that we have more effective supervision and enforcement. this is the beginning of a long-term process. while we have the potential to review the regulation, however, i want to ask colleagues to support this text with no amendments. i am baffled by the efd group amendment for a split vote which ultimately attempts to stop competent authorities from cooperating to tackle market abuse. it would mean they would not be able to gather evidence; it would mean they would not be able to conduct cross-border investigations on scandals such as that of libor (the london interbank offered rate). it would let perpetrators of market abuse off scot free: they would have a free ride. so i would ask colleagues not to vote for the efd amendment. we need global cooperation and eu-wide cooperation to be able to conduct these investigations. the lithuanian presidency representatives are not here but i wish to give them a very strong message – as, indeed, the commissioner has done – that we would like to begin the trialogue, and to prioritise wrapping this up, with the question of criminal sanctions. we know some member states have opted out here but that is not a reason not to proceed, and i hope the lithuanian presidency will accord the matter priority. i have been somewhat concerned to hear that this is not seen as one of the presidency priorities. let us hope we can change that with today’s vote, so we can put the final piece in this jigsaw. thanks again to my colleagues, to the commission and to the irish presidency, and i hope today that we get a strong vote for strong rules on market abuse.
mr president, we have just debated the issue of third-country nationals crossing eu borders. i have 30 000 constituents whose right to free movement in the union is being systematically and unjustifiably denied. and, since today is gibraltar’s national day, i hope that you and the house will join with me in sending a message of solidarity to the people of gibraltar – a message of dismay at the border controls being imposed and of outrage at the intemperate comments of mr garcía-margallo.
in writing. − i abstained from voting as i am in disagreement with the objective of this measure as a whole.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty it was vital to propose amendments to regulations that were using old comitology procedures. this regulation is about conserving fishery resources, something that has been a subject of long debate in wales.
in writing. − against. this report proposes what amounts to the first stage of harmonising the law relating to the property – real and personal – of a registered partnership with the regime applicable to matrimonial property. my party opposes such legislation, not least because this form of harmonisation is leading to the europeanization of our laws relating to matrimonial causes and those applicable to registered partnership. these measures also represent a step along the road towards the secularisation and ultimate destruction of the concept of marriage. it is for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because the law on registered partners and property varies from member state to member state and this can cause problems for couples who own properties in member states other than their own. it is important that after the break-up of a partnership, individuals are clear about their rights and can choose the applicable law for their property regimes. it is important to me that my constituents in wales are aware of their rights.
in writing. − against. this report can be seen as another step towards a pan-european regime of law relating to matrimonial finance and property. as such, it must be seen as a major step towards removing power over such matters from westminster and placing determination of the law relating to matrimonial property firmly in the hands of the eu. my party opposes all such legislation: in particular, we makes the point that the british people have never ever been consulted as to whether they wish so important and culturally-sensitive an aspect of modern life to be determined by unaccountable officials of the european bureaucracy and foreign meps who are not subject to the accountability of the ballot box in the uk.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report to ensure that eu citizens are aware of their rights. in this instance, concerning the law on registered partners and property, it is an important element of my work in representing my constituents in wales.
in writing. − i was happy to support a report that included the recommendations of the euʼs fundamental rights agency (fra) to ensure it was consistent with couplesʼ fundamental rights and that a choice of law was included in the text.
in writing. − there are currently around 16 million international couples in the eu, with 13% of marriages in 2007 having an "international element." it is for this reason that i support the clarification of property rights for such couples in cases involving immovable property following death, legal separation or divorce. also, i am aware that new rules in this area could save around 400m eur per year in additional legal costs for international couples, which is a worthwhile saving, and should be pursued. these savings have encouraged me to support the creation of rules to govern which court should have jurisdiction to deal with such disputes, and which law should apply, with a mechanism put in place for the recognition and enforcement of court judgements throughout the eu
mr president, in all sectors across the eu, maximising our research and innovation potential means we can deliver competitive, high-quality and sustainable services, and the transport sector is no exception. however, the principle of subsidiarity must remain foremost in our consideration of the commission’s communication on european transport technology strategy. i am concerned that this report points to the initiatives which would be best formulated and executed by the member states themselves. having regularly witnessed the quality and breadth of research and development taking place in my own constituency of wales alone, i am confident in member states’ ability to deliver leading high-tech mobility options for our constituents. therefore i could not support this report as formulated.
in writing. − against. i voted against this proposal as it puts far too much technological control into the hands of the central commissariat. i believe that the use of ‘spy in the sky’ technology would be a major infringement of people’s rights to privacy in their vehicles.
in writing. – i voted for this report because it will help develop a sustainable and effective transport network in wales. it addresses many central issues such as encouraging innovative research in the area of fair and efficient pricing for all modes of transport, co2 reduction, safety and accessibility for people with reduced mobility.
in writing. − fair prices and integrated ticketing are identified in this report as key factors relating to the transport sector’s competitiveness, which is a key issue for my london constituents.
in writing. − i support calls for the need to better align research and innovation with eu transport policy. technology has a huge role to play in helping transport improve its economic, environmental and social objectives. i believe there is no end to the possibilities technology can give us to improve and transform the transport world. i am of the opinion that there should be a more efficient and coherent use of r&i resources, and i encourage the exploitation of transport research by member states, which should encourage market uptake and deployment. i hope to see a significant reduction in accidents, noise, energy consumption, gas emissions and climate impact because of eu initiatives such as those in the ini report.
mr president, i am hugely sceptical about the practical implementation of the european arrest warrant by member states, having heard personal stories from my constituents in wales where the arrest warrant has been used to make them face spurious charges under different legal systems of questionable legitimacy in other parts of europe, particularly in less-regulated sectors such as the construction industry. i have serious concerns and see this directive as a step forward towards ensuring that, when the european arrest warrant is indeed used, the basic rights of citizens across europe, such as access to lawyers, the confidentiality of all communications with them and access to diplomatic authorities, are properly upheld. we cannot create european systems without the necessary protections and safeguards that have been built into national law for centuries. to make the european arrest warrant work in practice, we need to learn from the experiences gained across member states to date and ensure that individual countries do not, and cannot, abuse their privileges.
in writing. – it is important that individuals who are under criminal investigation have appropriate access to a lawyer. my own government is currently steering a bill through the scottish parliament which addresses the issue. this legislation will however offer scots legal protection when they travel elsewhere in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe there should be clear common rules on access to a lawyer. this represents another step on the path towards making protection of fundamental rights a reality across the european union. it will benefit scottish citizens if they move or travel to other eu member states.
in writing. − i welcome this own initiative report, which seeks to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings. it raises important issues regarding the clarity of the rules on the use of derogations. i agree that all derogations should be proportionate, strictly limited in time, and not be based solely on the seriousness of the alleged offence and will not prejudice the overall fairness of the proceedings. i believe in allowing eu citizens' access to justice via the establishment of a common minimum standard across the eu. i also support the rights of suspects and accused persons to access a lawyer in criminal proceedings and to be able to communicate upon their arrest.
mr president, i abstained on this report, because i am not fully convinced that the eu mortgage market needs to be harmonised. however, these proposals are not as bad as they could have been, thanks to the intervention of conservative meps. at least we prevented a range of unintended consequences for the uk mortgage market. in the uk, buy-to-let mortgages make up 13% of the total lending. if the original proposals had gone through, the eu would have destroyed this market and, ultimately, pushed up rentals. guarantor and shared equity mortgages have also given a reprieve. at a time when it is difficult enough to get your feet on the property market, it should not be up to the eu to decide whether or not parents help their children with their mortgages. i am still convinced, however, that this directive will increase red tape for lenders, which will drive up the cost of owning or renting a home.
mr president, my colleagues and i in the uk conservative delegation have been receiving letters from constituents for literally a decade about the way they have been treated when trying to get mortgages or trying to navigate local rules for property markets in spain, france and bulgaria, to name a few of the eu member states which british residents have been trying to access. these cross-border purchases with mortgage payments, however, are the exception. most mortgages are local to the country from which the applicant derives. every country in the eu has its own culture as regards home ownership, and that should be respected, but consumer protection should be the defining principle when considering cross-border rules and the compatibility of national systems. i congratulate mr sánchez presedo on his report on this issue, although i still have concerns about how the directive is likely to be implemented across the eu. moreover, i cannot understand why the council had such a problem with including correlation tables, which would have provided a record of how the directive had been implemented.
in writing. − report on credit agreements relating to residential property: antolín sánchez presedo. against. i fail to see this report as anything other than yet another attempt by the eu to interfere in an area where it has no business interfering – this time, the mortgage market.
in writing. - i voted to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution in the hope that the council will accept the european parliament's strong transposition paragraph in a first reading agreement. this report is important because it aims to create an internal market for mortgage credit in order to avoid in future the kind of crisis we saw in countries such as spain, ireland, latvia and hungary. the welsh economy needs to be regenerated and to do that we have to adopt development which is secure and sustainable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because until recently there has been no legislative framework for regulating mortgage lending at eu level. my group believes it is important to establish regulation on this issue, in light of the recent global financial crisis which was caused in part by irresponsible mortgage lending. these proposals will ensure that all consumers taking out a loan will be properly informed.
in writing. − this report gives cheaper access to justice for my london constituents, and as the uk labour delegation we have opted out of the disadvantages.
mr president, the financial services industry is one of the uk’s economic strengths and particularly for the city of london, which i represent. such importance, however, should not exclude the industry from supervision and effective policing and regulation where necessary. the revelations of the libor benchmark manipulation are just one high-profile example of the current scope for unscrupulous operators to abuse or manipulate the financial markets. it is noteworthy that in the uk there have been very few prosecutions under the existing laws to deal with insider dealing. to regain the public’s confidence in the industry now, it is absolutely essential that a zero-tolerance approach is taken and that those found to be abusing the system are criminally prosecuted. this proposal under ms mccarthy’s report will introduce fines of up to 50% of turnover for companies that commit unlawful behaviour, as well as providing the option of imposing bans on operating, but i believe that custodial sentences also need to be considered. this will act as a real disincentive to those who are tempted to break the rules and will give the public, which are generally hostile to the banking sector and to financiers, confidence that regulatory control has improved and has been re-established.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as its primary aim is to exert yet more control over the city. of particular concern is the enforcement requirement which would impose a particularly heavy burden upon the uk.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which is aimed at harmonising the criminal sanctions regimes for market abuse across the eu. this is essential to ensure effective implementation of eu financial services legislation. i know that my constituents in wales want a fair and transparent system.
in writing. – given the international nature of market abuse crimes, it is appropriate that the eu takes a stand. i therefore voted in favour of the negotiated text.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the market abuse framework is an essential part of the eu financial reform agenda. eu rules need to change to ensure we tackle properly market abuse across the eu and provide regulators with effective tools to monitor, detect and prosecute market abuse.
in writing. − under the new rules aimed at tackling insider dealing and market manipulation the same requirements will be imposed on all the member states, which should ensure uniform market conditions and protection for investors in the eu.
in writing. – this review of the legislation on market abuse aims to curb the kind of market manipulation, such as insider dealing and rate fixing, that reduces investor confidence and contributed to the financial crisis. in order to get the european economy growing again, companies need to be able to use eu financial markets to raise capital, and this requires them to have confidence in those markets. the new regulation is needed to bring the law up-to-date with new markets and ways of trading, to close loopholes and to make sure regulators have the ability to monitor, detect and prosecute market abuse. i supported the report of my labour colleague, arlene mccarthy, who called for the scope of the law to be widened, to ensure that abuse such as the libor scandal would be a criminal offence and that there are tough penalties for offenders. the report also requires protection for whistleblowers and introduces a trading window to prevent managers, who have access to more information, trading on their own accounts during certain times.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this technical report on technical measures. i look forward however to voting for the reformed cfp in the coming weeks. when it is in place the countries with fishing interests in the baltic sea will regain more meaningful powers in how they manage their fisheries.
mr president, as a british member talking about making the internal energy market for the eu work, i must say that my own member state has fully embraced its eu partners when it comes to the supply of energy. in my own constituency of wales, rwe, a german company, recently spent gbp 450 million on non-renewable energy generation and a further billion pounds on a state-of-the-art gas power station in pembrokeshire. edf, a french company, is one of the largest suppliers of electricity to domestic households in the uk and operates many of our british nuclear power stations. a new welsh nuclear power plant in anglesey will be developed by a japanese company as a result of a competitive tendering process encouraged by eu rules. most of the uk’s energy network is now operated by non-british firms. however, the full benefits of open competition are not yet being felt by our consumers in the uk as a result of protectionist policies in other eu member states that continue to engage in heavy state ownership or state subsidies. i hope that this new initiative from the commission can provide a real road map for reducing prices to consumers and bringing down those elements of fuel prices that are within our control.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as the eu should, quite simply, not be allowed to determine the energy market’s infrastructure – according to the free market principle, business and industry can do that perfectly well. the eu should not intervene in internal market measures, such as pipelines, and should promote the diversification of energy resources.
in writing. – i voted against the calls in this report for an eu energy level. the internal market in energy is important for all our nations and the eu must do its best to make it work. the eu’s efforts should not however extend to their gaining powers over taxation on energy; that must remain a member state competence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe our energy markets are perhaps overpriced and also poorly interconnected and not sufficiently transparent, so consumers have too little understanding of the options they have. this is the case for consumers in scotland and should not be the case. to make europe more competitive, we need secure, stable and affordable energy. consumers must be able to pay less for energy and must know where their energy bills come from.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report for my london constituents as it will result in security of supply, lower energy costs for consumers and industry, and a more sustainable economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which highlights that consumers' interests should be at the heart of energy policy. it is vitally important that energy poverty is tackled at european and national level and ensuring sustainability and affordability is also crucial. the report calls for small scale energy production and the involvement of cooperatives to be promoted. with energy prices increasing and proving to be an added burden for many households throughout the eu, including in wales, it is important that consumers are made more aware of their energy options so that they can make informed choices that will save them money in the future.
mr president, in what remains a difficult economic time across the eu, it is absolutely essential that we ensure that every penny of eu funding is spent in the most cost-effective manner possible. however, as outlined in today’s report, strategic use of european structural and investment funds could drive private investment in energy efficiency across europe and support member states in their efforts to increase their energy efficiency. the most successful and effective initiatives will, i believe, be those that complement member states’ individual efforts to increase energy efficiency with targeted investments of eu funds that contribute to overall growth and job creation within our individual regions. however, for me, this report does not adequately reflect this need for local leadership and so i had to abstain on the final text.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as the whole of the energy efficiency measures under the cohesion policy are nothing more than drain on taxpayers’ money – and here we are again, asking them to contribute more to a fund that has, to date, not been proved effective.
in writing. − i support all the necessary and efficient measures to be taken in order to make sure that the europe 2020 targets can be achieved and consider that energy efficiency measures via cohesion policy represent the greatest potential for this target.
in writing. − i fully support the content of this report. it looks at the important issue of energy efficiency measures in cohesion policy and assesses the results of measures in place in the current programming period. the report also proposes important recommendations to strengthen the impact of energy efficiency measures in the next round of funding. i also welcome the recommendation in the report that calls for european objectives to complement those at national level. ensuring that energy efficiency measures are fully implemented within cohesion policy is vital to helping achieve eu2020 targets.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it is yet another prime example of the eu wasting taxpayers’ money in a spectacular fashion. in this instance we see yet another attempt to subsidise the failing economies of the mediterranean and yet another effort to promote ‘eu presenceʼ in the arab countries – all at the cost of the taxpayer.
in writing. – this report urges the coastal states of the adriatic-ionian basin to cooperate in order to achieve sustainability in their respective fishing industries. a key to their success will be the reform of the cfp which will return greater powers to fishing nations.
in writing. − this report supports the goal of achieving above maximum sustainable yield, something that is crucial for the future of london fish markets.
mr president, first allow me to pay tribute to the hardworking interpreters. for their benefit, i will try to speak slowly, avoid jokes and refrain from littering my speeches with quotations from shakespeare! nevertheless, we are spending too much on interpretation. the parliament pays out over eur 15 million per year on translations for 24 languages and, worse still, in 2012 the parliament wasted eur 5.5 million by requesting and not using interpretation. i welcome this report, which proposed a system of interpretation on demand. however, we ended up voting for the socialist amendment which i believe will not work well. it is a shame that this house has missed an opportunity to save more money. after all, savings are good in any language or, i would think, for any political party.
mr president, i am hugely supportive of maintaining the diversity of languages within the eu. my own first language, welsh, has a long history, over centuries, of not being allowed to be used in public discourse, yet has always managed to survive and indeed is now used with equivalent status to english in the welsh assembly. i am very proud of my language, yet i do not need all my documents in the committee on economic and monetary affairs – many thousands if not hundreds of thousands of pages – to be translated into my mother tongue. during committee meetings discussing derivatives, market infrastructure or central securities depositories, i am the only person in the room who could discuss issues in welsh but i am also comfortable debating in english. any of my constituents who are interested in these issues can read all of this information bilingually on my website – something i actually provide for through the running costs of my office which the ep provides. this report suggests similar efficiencies where translation is used for members when it is necessary for them to perform their duties, but not to make political points about the use of language. i genuinely believe that eu money should be reserved for translation costs when they are required by specific members to do their legislative work, not as a matter of course, and that there are much better ways of supporting multilingualism within the eu, such as the endangered language report we are voting on tomorrow.
mr president, i too welcome today’s report and strongly endorse the eur 10 million in savings on parliament’s interpretation budget that has already been achieved as the result of reforms to the system introduced last year. this is a substantial step in the right direction but i believe that more can be done. i also welcome the move to streamline the interpretation and translation given in committee meetings while guaranteeing – and i think this is really important – that the principle of multilingualism is not compromised by any changes made. surely, however, it is unacceptable – as other speakers have mentioned – that 7% of last year’s interpretation budget was lost as a result of meetings being cancelled at the last minute. my lib dem colleagues and i want to see an improvement on these figures this year and further savings made. at a time of crisis, with citizens in the uk and across the eu tightening their belts, the european parliament must get its house in order, give a lead and find savings and efficiencies where it can. i have tabled amendments to cut parliament’s budget next year and i would urge colleagues from all parties to work with us in trying to find further savings.
mr president, the eu has 28 member states and 24 official languages. the un, with 193 member states, operates with just six, and the 47-member-state council of europe has just two official languages. working towards a more efficient and cost effective interpretation process is of course welcome, but the recommendations do not offer the radical solution which would be the logical step for an expanding supranational institution such as the eu. limiting the number of working languages to three – namely french, german and english, and embracing this solution would not be as radical as many in this house would portray it as being. in the majority of cases this is already de facto for many of my colleagues, who make speeches happily in one of those languages in the plenary. adopting this officially would only serve to bring more transparency and dynamism to the workings of parliament and send a signal to eu citizens that the eu is serious in its aim to make efficient and budgetary savings. this is certainly something which would be welcome in the uk and by my own london constituents.
in writing. − abstain. i abstained from voting in this case as while achieving efficiency is, of course, key, this report completely ignores the obvious – the role of english as a lingua franca.
in writing. - i have campaigned since my election in 1999 for official status for the welsh language. it was a huge step forward when welsh was awarded co-official status. however, as an official language in wales it should also be official in the eu. if it were, of course, there would be interpreters from wales in the welsh booth in the parliament. whilst i supported this report because of the situation of the eu budget, i will continue to work for equality for the welsh language with the other languages of europe.
in writing. – at a time when all public institutions are having to find savings it is only right that the parliament's interpretation facilities are used in as efficient a way as possible. late cancellations should be minimised and methods should be used to make economic use of the facilities. nevertheless, linguistic diversity is not negotiable and we must ignore calls from certain sections of the english language press to reduce the number of languages used in this house.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because there is a need to improve efficiency in parliament and try and save money. although i also support the report in its acknowledgement of the importance of multilingualism as the means by which parliament enables people to exercise their right of democratic control. the report refers to the players within parliament who directly use interpretation and not the real end-users outside (i.e. citizens) who need interpretation to access and be well informed about what parliament does.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as i do not believe that it is the eu’s place to interfere in the actions of those that enjoy an online flutter from time to time.
in writing. - i voted against this report for one reason: i do not agree with the call for payment systems to act as a means of stopping people from gambling on illegal websites. we should not use credit card companies and companies like paypal to "police" the internet. payment providers may have to block such transactions but the decision to do so should come from a court or competent body (according to the member state legislation). however, i do of course agree that illegal gambling websites should be blacklisted and stopped from functioning and that action needs to be taken to try and address the problems. that is in the interests of my constituents in wales like those across the eu.
in writing. – whilst this report deals with important subject matter it is confused and at times incoherent. member states have a duty to adequately regulate this industry and the eu has a role to play too. i however joined my group in voting against the report.
in writing. − i did not vote in favour of the report on online gambling today. while i welcome positive steps in respect of the single market, i am disappointed to see that attempts to ban online betting on ‘live sports’ have been adopted despite objections from my liberal colleagues. i believe that rather than banning the option to bet online, which in my opinion is an overreaction and not justified by evidence, we should concentrate instead on the protection of consumers in the online environment, which is a fast-developing industry. although this report does have some helpful suggestions to improve the protection and information given to consumers when gambling online, i will continue to urge my colleagues to re-think this blanket measure which will not achieve its intended goal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because by the time this report had reached plenary, it proposed a balanced approach to the future of the online gambling sector in the internal market and i was satisfied that it reached a balanced conclusion. we must have protection against gambling online, many are addicted to gambling in scotland but many also enjoy it responsibly.
in writing. − firstly, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr fox for his great work on this report. i have understood that negotiations with the other groups were tricky, and while mr fox would have liked to have achieved more for the single market it is clear that many other groups unfortunately tabled protectionist amendments and were hesitant to make much-needed improvements to the status quo. having followed the cult opinion, i am pleased to see that the integrity of sport has been seriously considered and that there will be more effective cooperation between stakeholders to combat match-fixing and to safeguard the integrity of sport. match-fixing is transnational by its nature and cross-border cooperation is absolutely necessary. this report carries a strong message to all involved that we want clean sport and fair gambling services! finally, it is important to point out the need for member states to observe the basic eu treaty single market principles when it comes to gambling, to make sure consumers are not forced to turn to illegal websites, while ensuring a high level of protection for users, and specifically for minors and other vulnerable persons.
in writing. − online gambling has serious effects on the communities of my constituency of london. it is vital that an appropriate response to this issue is formulated.
in writing. − online gambling has been growing in popularity over the past decade and is an industry now worth over eur 80 billion in the eu. in the uk it was recently reported that its online gambling industry had broken the gbp 2 billion mark. whilst a legitimate past-time for many millions and a valuable source of job creation, i welcome the measures proposed in this report to curtail some its more negative aspects. chief among these is the need to protect minors, and to introduce measures that prevent the industry from being used as a vehicle for money-laundering and other criminal activity. the report’s recommendation that member states should encourage operators to carry a logo or trustmark is also of particular value. allowing users to be able to quickly and easily identify whether or not a site is reliable and legitimate would not only offer greater protection but would also encourage a bottom-up rather than a top-down regulatory regime.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which, after hundreds of amendments, was much stronger than the original proposal put forward by the conservative rapporteur. the risks of online gambling, such as facilitating addiction, fraud and organised crime, mean that the online gambling sector is different from other sectors. online gambling is not currently regulated at eu level; however, the fact that it is online, and therefore crosses borders, inevitably means that co-ordinated european action will be more effective than each member state acting alone. this report recognises that online gambling may carry a greater risk of addiction than traditional gambling and has serious social consequences, including economic hardship and an increase in organised crime. it therefore calls for protection of consumer health to be at the heart of any future legislative proposals.
mr president, during my time as an mep, this house has come every year, without exception, with a request to increase the eu budget and this, regardless of the current crisis and the austerity measures. every year too, without fail, the auditors have refused to approve the management of those eu funds. the problem is one of failure: failure to control that the taxpayers’ money is properly spent. as recently as july, the court of auditors reported eur 3 billion of waste in road construction projects. this audit only covered four countries so i fear that the overall figure across the eu would be much higher. if we did a proper job we would not need to engage in a multi-million information campaign ahead of the 2014 elections. eu taxpayers do not trust us because we do not look after their interests; we should stop putting more money into this black hole.
mr president, the european council is at least seeking to exercise some budgetary restraint. meantime, we in this house call upon our voters for austerity, while we ourselves practice extravagance. two hundred million euros a year to commute to strasbourg; eur 150 million for mr hans-gert pöttering’s house of european history, or is it perhaps the house of european horrors? and now we read that we are spending eur 6 million on a pre-election propaganda campaign! mr president, i have seen the commercial. we say that we are ready to listen to the people, so let me tell you what my four million constituents are telling me in the british east midlands. they are saying they have had enough of the european union; they are sick to death of paying for it; they are sick to death of its petty rules and interference; they think it does them more harm than good. they believe they would be better off out. colleagues, as oliver cromwell famously remarked, ‘you have sat here too long for any good you may have been doing. for god’s sake, go!’
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the parliament and the two rapporteurs, ms skrzydlewska and mr papanikolaou, for having organised this joint debate. this allows us to underscore that the eu is addressing the short-term challenges facing our young people without losing sight of the broader picture and the strategic approach it requires. mr papanikoalou’s report covers the full breadth of the eu youth strategy and the way it has been implemented since 2010 during its first three-year cycle, and makes useful suggestions for the new cycle. ms skrzydlewska’s report addresses shorter term aspects and echoes and supports a number of initiatives the commission has taken in response to the crisis and particularly youth unemployment. the council and commission’s joint report on the youth strategy illustrates that already during the first three years many measures have been taken. it highlights the value of the different components of the strategy, and in particular notes the structured dialogue with young people. this is a unique feature, whereby young people themselves and their representatives take part in the dialogue on policy developments which affect them directly. at the same time, the commission shares the view that urgent action and solid partnerships among all relevant actors are required to effectively address the youth employment crisis. and while the strategy encompasses eight different fields of action, ranging from education to the involvement of youth in the world, during its first three-year cycle a special focus has necessarily been placed on the most pressing needs of young people. we should also continue to deliver on the other fields of action covered by the youth strategy, for example promoting the creativity of young people and their commitment towards society. encouraging them to be active citizens is very much at the core of the objectives, not only of the youth strategy but also of the future erasmus+ programme. the commission welcomes the emphasis ms skrzydlewska’s report puts on the range of measures targeting youth unemployment, including investing in skills, high-quality traineeships and vocational education and training, the gender dimension, individual career counselling, the promotion of self-employment, job mobility, and the recognition and validation of non-formal and informal education. the commission shares the view that a specific and targeted approach to youth who are not in education, employment or training is needed. as identified in the reports, the commission has advanced a number of practical and achievable measures that have the potential to make an immediate impact. in december 2012, it adopted a youth employment package with a council recommendation on a youth guarantee, as well as the launch of a european alliance for apprenticeships, a quality framework for traineeships, and actions to enhance youth mobility. the commission welcomes, as does parliament, the council recommendation on establishing a youth guarantee adopted in april 2013 and european council’s recent decision to earmark eur 6 billion (and up to eur 8 billion) for the youth employment initiative. the youth employment initiative should target support to regions with a level of youth unemployment above 25%, and should in particular aim at making the youth guarantee a reality for young people under the age of 25. these are key provisions, since the future of europe lies also with its capacity to unleash young people’s potential. regarding the youth guarantee, the priority now is implementation. we need to act quickly. the european council has called on all 20 member states eligible for funding under the eur 6 billion youth employment initiative to develop youth guarantee implementation plans by the end of 2013, and others by spring 2014. youth guarantee implementation plans should in particular set out how the youth guarantee will be implemented and financed. the commission has also proposed to frontload the youth employment initiative in 2014 and 2015. it is vital that member states use the youth employment initiative above all to implement the youth guarantee and target the 7.5 million young people who are not in employment, education or training. the european social fund, however, remains the main source of support in youth employment in the member states, and this should not be forgotten at the time of programming for the period 2014 to 2020. for long-term employment and competitiveness, investing in skills remains a crucial policy. we need to highlight the importance of transfers of skills, as well as ict and the creation of green jobs as underscored also by your report. we identified in our employment package the green economy, health and the ict sectors as critical sectors for job creation today and in the years to come. i particularly welcome that your reports stressed that those sectors are particularly relevant for young people.
dréachtóir do thuairim an choiste um fhorbairt réigiúnach. − a uachtaráin, go raibh míle maith agat. as author of an opinion on the eu youth strategy, i identified the fight against youth unemployment as a priority, given its devastating effects on communities through mass emigration and hopelessness leading to the risk of suicide, particularly among young people. the international labour organisation states that for the eu youth guarantee to be effective, it needs eur 21 billion. therefore the current allocation of eur 8 billion is obviously not enough. the concept of providing access to employment for young people through a youth guarantee investment is contrary to the austerity agenda being implemented by many governments across europe. if we sustain jobs for young people – and we want to do that – then the eu youth guarantee needs to be adequately funded, it needs to tackle youth unemployment and it needs to be part of the broader economic strategy of investment and growth and jobs.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, youth unemployment is one of the biggest challenges facing member states. only by growing our economies and encouraging new business will we see youth unemployment really coming down. today jaguar land rover, a major employer in my region of the west midlands, announced the creation of 1 700 new jobs at its solihull factory. this is fantastic news and gives young people in my region great hope. it is so important to develop an entrepreneurial culture and an environment that is conducive to starting a business. many young people have great ideas and great ambition and we must encourage them. we must recognise also that some will fail: there is a saying, you know, that someone who has never made a mistake has never made anything. now, member states, including my own, have put in place comprehensive initiatives, including expanding apprenticeships and investing in training, to help get young people into the labour market. the british government has committed about gbp 1 billion as part of a new youth contract. and recent figures in the uk show that in three months the number of young people unemployed reduced by 43 000. training which responds to real market need, coupled with an open and dynamic business environment, must be the key to reducing youth unemployment.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, in southern europe we hear horror stories of 60% youth unemployment in greece and spain. in my own country we have a million young people out of work. why is this happening? it is happening because eu rules and regulations on employers are making it difficult and expensive for them to hire young people. that is one point, but let us talk about the real elephant in the room here. the other problem is the fact that we have been forced to open our borders to 500 million people across the european union. they have every right to come and work in the uk, to undercut young people and drive down wages. in a few months’ time, on 1 january 2014, we will be opening our borders to 29 million more people from romania and bulgaria, two countries which are far poorer than the uk. already statistics are showing that the number of romanians and bulgarians working in britain has risen by 26% this year. so here we are, debating the eu strategy. well, i can tell you it is a failure and will continue to be a failure until the european union allows us to implement sensible border controls.
madam president, from britain, from the house of lords, our upper chamber, i have received a note today of an inquiry they have launched into europe’s young jobless. they note that the eu is going to spend eur 8 billion over the next six years and they want to know if that will add any value to all these proposals. they note also that there is a brain drain in europe and what are we going to do about it, with young people, without a job, leaving in such great numbers for work elsewhere? we all know that spain has got something like 50% unemployed: 280 000 young people left spain alone last year to seek their fortunes either in the rest of europe or in south america. it is no coincidence that spain, together with several other southern european countries, is struggling. ireland, portugal, greece and others: what have they in common? the euro: a strait-jacket which is robbing them of their economy. no wonder they are in trouble; no wonder they have high youth unemployment. let them sort out their own salvation with their own former currencies restored. it may lead to low-wage economies but then you have to answer the question: do you want a low-paid job or no job at all?
mr president, unemployment is caused by a single currency that is overvalued for the countries of the south where youth unemployment is at its highest. it is caused by high energy costs because of the eu’s mad dash for renewables. the eu’s energy costs are between twice and four times those of the united states. it is also caused by the eu’s embrace of globalisation and unlimited trade with low-wage economies. last but not least, it is caused by unrestricted immigration. mr nuttall’s hypocrisy on this was astounding. ukip’s leader, mr farage, has advocated 250 000 work permits to be issued by the uk every year. ukip is a pro-immigration party like all of the others that have expressed pretended and very recent concerns about it. youth unemployment is particularly significant because it is even more difficult to find a new job than it is to hold on to an existing one. however, its causes and solutions are not qualitatively different.
mr president, it is a special pleasure on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, as its chairman, to make some comments on both these resolutions, because we have been involved in both of them, and because the clear context for this is our resolution on the digital single market passed by a very large majority in this house in july, where we put the whole emphasis on the need to give citizens and consumers trust and confidence in the whole of their interactions with the internet. a number of people made those points today, not just in the context of network security, which is crucial not just for citizens in terms of developing the market but in delivery of those crucial infrastructure services as well, and we had to get all member states to raise their game, as my colleague tunne kelam – who was a joint signatory to this resolution with me – pointed out so eloquently. but we need to address the question of trust and confidence in buying those digital services, and the issues of net neutrality that so many of you mentioned. we know, commissioner, that you are working on that and so the point i would make from my committee is that we will do our very best to reinforce our previous work on users’ rights in this area. if i may say, it is really good to have the lithuanian presidency here because we need it to move this forward in council as soon as possible. i would also like to make an important point of order, mr president, which is that i am disappointed that my committee – which was responsible for this resolution on cybersecurity, signed by members of my committee – was not allowed the five minutes’ speaking time that my colleague mr rohde used so elegantly in presenting the resolution by the committee on industry, research and energy. i think it is a breach of protocol in this house that my committee has been denied this opportunity, and i hope that you will take this up with the presidency.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i think the council statement revealed the question of why we are here and why we are listening to a statement on what was essentially a uk act, under the terrorism act 2000, where an individual was detained. the reason we are here is that there was doubt as to whether that uk act was being proportionately and correctly implemented. in the words of a former attorney general, the use of that power was both not proportionate and incorrectly used. when an examining officer knows that someone is not a terrorist, they cannot detain that person under that act. this is why, across the political spectrum, there was severe doubt as to whether david miranda should have in fact been detained for the maximum nine hours when it was clear that he was not prima facie a terrorist. that is where the doubt entered and, as mr weber correctly said, that pressure was applied. this is an allegation which has been tested in our high court and is the subject of proceedings, but it clearly sent messages across the world that political pressure was being applied in this case. ms kroes, as one of your colleagues said in the college of commissioners, if we are going to cast doubt in other countries about the question of media freedom and pressure, we should apply that across the board. this is the problem that we have. this particular act did not come as a result of 9/11, but it came in relation to northern ireland in the year 2000. we should not be applying such legislation in relation to somebody who had close proximity to glenn greenwald. i asked the editor-in-chief of the guardian in the european parliament enquiry last week what effect this situation is having on journalism, both in the guardian and amongst journalists more widely. his answer to me was that it was having a chilling effect on media freedom and on journalism. that is the problem we are now encountering, that across the media world the detention of david miranda is having ‘a chilling effect’. this is the problem. this is a national situation and – as you rightly said, commissioner – there is security and the right of security in our national member states and the right for intelligence services personnel to be protected: of course there is. i believe that the guardian is redacting and editing its stories so as not to put people in danger. this is not just about having information out there in an irresponsible way, as we heard in the committee inquiry last week; it is our responsibility to ensure that this balance is correct but that we do not have a misuse of legislation, either in one member state or across the european union. we should have article 10 of the echr applying to journalism, media freedom and a good environment in the european union for media freedom. that is what this statement should be about and that is why we are here today. i want to hear from you a defence of media freedom.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i will not just defend the uk government or a specific anti-terror law but i am here tonight in the hope of adding a little commonsense and to provide facts rather than accusations in relation to the miranda case. what is becoming increasingly clear in the work of this parliament is that we are becoming the judge, jury and executioner on all issues, with a dislike of acquiring evidence before doing so. the fight against terrorism and serious crime is a thankless task, complex and a target for criticism. proportionality is something this house talks about a lot in the context of the actions of security services, its legislation and the collection of data, yet so often parliament’s response, its approach and its methodology of working are far from proportionate and this comes at the cost of credibility. the facts: the uk has independent reviews of its terrorist legislation, introduced by mr moraes’ party but improved by the coalition government. it is subject to strong safeguards and there are clear rules and provisions for any complaints that may occur; complaints which are overseen by an independent police complaints commission. david miranda’s legal team and the uk’s courts have both agreed that there is a strong case for the highly sensitive stolen material – i emphasise ‘stolen’ – to be retained by the police and that the documents retrieved may be examined on both national security and specified criminal grounds. the proportionality of mr miranda’s detention was further confirmed by the consent order which was granted. this is an ongoing investigation. it is not an opinion of a journalist. it is a theft. finally, i would like to remind the house that we are here to serve the interests of the citizens in the eu, not just a few vocal bloggers, hackers and twitterers who seem to have a powerful lobby here in parliament.
mr president, we have witnessed a collapse in european eel stocks of about 90%. this is not surprising as they are killed at virtually every stage of their life cycle. first of all, the glass eels are fetching about the same per kilo as a kilo of gold. they are a much sought-after delicacy. the elvers find it almost impossible now to get into fresh water because of the building of offshore renewables in river mouths and estuaries as well as the traditional hydroelectric schemes and water pumping stations. the adult eels find it impossible to get back into the sea to make their return journey to the sargasso sea. for that reason i am delighted to welcome what the commissioner has said this evening, that she will take very tough action to produce measures that will protect the eel. i also welcome isabella lövin’s excellent report. both of these are aiming to achieve similar objectives.
mr president, the lough neagh eel fishery in my constituency is both the largest commercial wild eel fishery in europe and the most sustainable. it is run by a fishermen’s cooperative and provides a livelihood for over 300 families. the local people who depend on it have banded together to protect and preserve this vital resource. for this reason, over a 40-year period the fishing and stocking methods applied have won international acclaim, and since 1984 the cooperative has invested almost gbp 5 million on the purchasing and restocking of glass eels. the eels are also important as an export, and bring in earnings of around gbp 5 million a year. it is a source of pride that lough neagh eels now enjoy pgi status. i completely support the ways of improving european eel stock recovery, but northern ireland is part of the solution and not part of the problem. i hope the commissioner will take that on board. i would urge that no proposals be introduced until an impact assessment based on independent scientific advice has been completed and is understood by everyone. i have always supported the commission’s move towards the improvement of reporting obligations on eel management and the move towards updating eel regulations. countries must fulfil their responsibilities and draw up the relevant reports so that the commission can make an independent and proper judgment on what is happening.
mr president, in my constituency, lough neagh enjoys protected geographical indication (pgi) status. it is the largest commercial wild eel fishery in europe and there is no other eel fishery which is similarly structured and managed. more than 300 families around lough neagh are dependent on the eel fishery. lough neagh fishermen’s cooperative has developed the most sustainable eel fishery in europe: all involved recognise the importance of conserving eel stocks and apply additional regulations ensuring sustainable fishing practices. over 40 years they have invested nearly gbp 5 million to purchase and restock glass eels. recognising the importance of improving the eu eel stock recovery, leading eel experts in the agriculture, food and bioscience institute are currently researching the biological assessment of stocking. however, no proposal which impacts directly on individual businesses and communities should be introduced until an impact assessment, based on independent scientific advice, has been completed.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i very much welcome this report. as commissioner barnier has pointed out, it is the latest in a series of reports that the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has been assiduously presenting to the house, and also to the wider public, to say how important this movement towards making the services market work better is to the fundamentals of jobs and growth in the whole european economy. at a time when we are desperate to create more jobs, it is quite clear that growing service businesses take on more people more quickly than any other segment of the economy: that has been clearly demonstrated by economic analysis for many years. it is also clear that the purveyors of services themselves have an energising effect on economies. there are many areas where we need more expertise – in computer systems, in marketing, in the internet, in designing and putting together buildings and in developing and building them. these are all services where we need more active competition. it was very interesting when i led the committee’s mission to greece the other week – you will be interested in this, madam president – that we heard from the trade unions about the lack of competition in the greek economy and how that was holding back the economy. we heard from the minister for competitiveness how he was setting about dealing with that, and services were absolutely at the heart of his approach. this is something that applies everywhere, colleagues, and something we need to get to grips with. we want fair competition, as ms rapti eloquently pointed out, but in the end this is all about generating those jobs and economic activity that we so desperately need.
madam president, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to thank constance le grip and all the shadow team who worked with us, and in particular the staff of the committee – who will perhaps not all be listening this evening – because an enormous amount of work was needed to reach an agreement on this proposal. we should also thank the irish presidency in their absence: if it were not for their great work, particularly with the mountain of issues we had to deal with on delegated and implementing acts, we would not have made progress. as ms gebhardt pointed out in one instance – and there were several others – these are not just technical issues, they are important political issues as well. i want to thank you, commissioner, and your team led by miroslaw zielinski, for working with us. i think you paid us a tribute by saying that you agreed we have ended up with a better directive than we had when we started. however, this is only the beginning. we have just had a debate on the services directive, which is an issue we have been following since 2006 when ms gebhardt and i worked on it. on customs, from now on, we have to keep the implementation of the new customs code, and of what we put in this new directive, firmly in the political domain and in the eye of this parliament. we have to keep up the pressure on member states to invest and to implement these instruments. as many of you have said, this is crucially important for the operation of the single market, and it is also really important for consumers and citizens. as ms muscardini eloquently pointed out, the issues around counterfeiting and product safety are now increasingly in the domain of customs, and the more we take away the administrative burden, the better citizens can be looked after. this is part of the overall mission of our committee. so thanks very much to everybody. i look forward to this proposal from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection receiving comprehensive approval tomorrow.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, europe needs a new direction and that direction cannot be based on old ideas. europe needs new thinking. now these are not my words, mr barroso: they are yours from the equivalent speech last year. the problem, of course, is that yet again you have not delivered on any of the big promises you have made or on any of your grand rhetoric year after year. your chance to deliver that new direction has passed. the question we have to address now is whether your successor will be able to deliver any of the change that the eu so desperately needs. next year the commission will have a fresh leader, although personally i am not optimistic that he or she will come up with any fresh ideas. indeed, many of the applicants for your job are here today. it is like a giant hustings meeting. commissioner reding, who i think has moved to the front bench now, is clearly running as the federalist candidate, producing more eye-catching babble every day that goes past. commissioner rehn could be delivering the speech next year, although i suspect that if he did we would all have a bit of a late lunch. and if commissioner rehn gets the liberal nomination, what about poor mr verhofstadt? what is he going to do? perhaps he could challenge mr schulz for the socialist nomination. i am sure he would feel more at home in that group. in fact i think i am one of the few people here who do not actually want to do your job. i am perfectly happy with the one that i have got. the problem of course is that none of these potential candidates on show today represents any new ideas. they represent the vested interests of the past: the people of the european district in brussels, rather than the people of europe. and next may the choice will not be about anonymous candidates from political groupings that nobody has ever heard of. it will be about whether you want merely to shuffle the deck of cards or to throw the deck out completely and start afresh. the essential flaw of the eu is that it simply does not trust the capacity of people and markets to overcome problems. problems, we are told repeatedly here, can be solved only by ‘more europe’. if somebody falls off a ladder somewhere in europe, we need a new directive to solve it. people are not allowed to be trusted to decide their own working hours. they are not even to be allowed to take up e-cigarettes, to cite another topical example. and when eu lawyers say, as they did yesterday, that the financial transaction tax, so beloved of so many of you, is actually illegal, that does not matter because nothing – not even the law – should stand in the way of further european integration. we need a new euro-realist direction with different ideas: one that says that patriotism is healthy; to be proudly german or french or polish is not necessarily anti-european. the concepts are not mutually antagonistic, and to want a new direction for europe is not anti-european. the real anti-europeans are those whose idea of change in the eu only means moving further in the old, failed direction. the real nationalists are those who force us to accept a european nation, which, as reality shows, nobody in europe actually wants. and you know what? we have tried the old interventionist, centralising, socialist-type approach. it may have been appropriate for the 1950s; today it is well past its sell-by date. so, let us try something different. let us try a new approach. perhaps we could rediscover the principle of freedom that many in europe fashioned for the world, of opening our markets, of embracing enterprise, of eliminating the many vested interests in the union. next year’s elections will offer us an opportunity, not to advance european political parties and their candidates, beloved of many of us although nobody in the real world has heard of them, but to give people a true choice – not a choice about who you want steering the tanker, but actually about whether you want the tanker to go in a different direction. many of us want change. all the polls indicate that the people of europe want change. next may, they will have a chance to make a stand. they can say that they do not simply want a new president for the eu; they want a new direction for it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – in his group mr callanan has three members who represent gibraltar and yet he has said nothing about the frustration over the summer of the right to free movement of the people of gibraltar or the harassment they have been suffering. does this suggest that he does not think this is important? and would mr callanan welcome the fact that prime minister cameron picked up the telephone to president barroso and asked president barroso to help him on this issue?
blue-card answer. – i commend mr watson’s opportunism in raising the subject of gibraltar – he raised it again yesterday, so perhaps there is an election coming up – but the conservative members in my group do an excellent job of representing the people of gibraltar. he knows that i agree with them that the actions of the spanish government have been disgraceful. actually the people who they are hurting are the people of spain – in the poorer parts of spain – who actually want to cross the border into a free and prosperous gibraltar and actually make a living and earn some money for their families. so i am sure this is designed to distract attention from the many domestic problems that mr garcía magallo is suffering with his prime minister in spain. i hope that the problems are resolved soon.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, the problem is not just mr barroso but the entire unelected government of europe – and perhaps there is a chance for our citizens to reflect on where the real power lies in this union. i have listened to mr barroso for nearly 10 years and i give him full marks for consistency. he is a man who likes fixed ideology. he probably picked it up when he was a communist or a maoist, or whatever he was, and for the last 10 years he has pursued euro-federalism combined with an increasing green obsession. and yes, it has been good! for bureaucrats, big businessmen and landowners it has not been a bad decade, but it has been a disaster for poor people, unemployed people and those on low wages. the euro, which you, mr barroso, believed would give us monetary stability, has done the very opposite. it was a misconstruction from the start and it is pretty clear that youth unemployment, at nearly 50% across the mediterranean, is probably nearly double what it would have been, as a direct result of the misconstruction that is the euro. the countries in question are in the wrong currency, but i know that you will never admit to that. i think the euro will die a slow and painful death, but you are all in denial about that. however, it is the green agenda that i really find more interesting. you keep telling us, mr barroso, that climate change is an absolute top priority and you have been greeted with near-hysteria in this place over the last 10 years. those of us who have been sceptical have been mocked, derided and called deniers. we argued from the start that the science was not settled, and we have argued very strongly that the measures we are taking to combat what may or not be a problem are damaging our citizens. we have been proved to be right. tens of millions have been forced into fuel poverty; manufacturing industry is being driven away because our competitors in china and america are going for cheap fossil alternatives; and wind turbines are blighting the landscapes and seascapes of europe. yet still today you go on about green growth. well, the consensus is breaking down behind you. commissioner tajani said the other day that we face a systematic industrial massacre. it is time to stop this stupidity. to help you, there is the nasa photograph taken last august of the northern ice caps and there is the nasa photograph of the ice caps taken this year. the ice has increased by 60% in one year. leading american scientists are now saying that we are going into a period of between 15 and 30 years of global cooling. we may have made one of the biggest and most stupid collective mistakes in history by getting so worried about global warming. you can reverse this in the next seven or eight months. you can bring down people’s taxes. if you do not do so, they will vote on it in the european elections of next year. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – oh no, i’m sorry, old son, i haven’t accused you of not working – far from that. i have accused you of doing far too much and actually, collectively in this house, forming a consensus, and i am going to come back to this green agenda. you all formed the view that carbon dioxide emissions were leading to rapid global warming and that it was the greatest crisis that has ever faced mankind, and therefore we had to start taxing carbon. there has been no global warming, sir, for twenty years. the ice caps have grown significantly over the last twelve months, and i am making a positive proposal that would put back into work tens of thousands of people, and i am saying: let us scrap these climate levies and let us see where the science goes over the course of the next few years. i cannot think of a more positive thing that has been said in this house this morning.
mr president, i am amazed that we have had this state of the union address today. i am surprised that mrs merkel has not asked us to postpone it until after the german general election. well, mr barroso, this was your fourth and last state of the union address and you have brought along the rest of your appointed commission – for support. never before has a tier of this parliament been filled with such incompetence and failure. a question, why is it that it is the president of the unelected arm of the eu that gives this address? why is it not president schulz? one member of your commission is here today, despite only having an attendance record of 52%, almost as low as a ukip mep. your flagship policy, when you became president, was the much-vaunted lisbon strategy which seeks to make the eu the most dynamic economy in the world. that sank without trace. in fact the eu has gone into reverse. unemployment, especially among youth, is rocketing and little miss red tape sitting next to you is not helping. mr barroso, your own commission’s poll shows there is no trust in the eu. the people of the biggest five countries feel the eu is not working. two-thirds of people across the eu think their views are not being heard. no wonder – but when they do express an opinion, for example in a rare referendum, they are treated with contempt and told that somehow they do not understand. the arrogance is palpable. the people must be listened to. let the people decide.
mr president, president barroso asked us what would make europe stronger. well, today is catalonia’s national day and thousands of people will form a human chain across the country to demand independence in the form of the catalan way, which is based on the baltic way of 1989 which led to the independence of the baltic countries and transformed the european union. next year there will be a legally-agreed referendum on scottish independence. i represent wales, which is a nation with its own government. however, in the council of ministers our vote is passed by the uk and not in the welsh national interest, even when funding and jobs are at stake. we want the ability to play a full part in rebuilding the economy, reclaiming europe for all its nations and regions. that is what will make europe stronger. also, you mentioned the centenary of the first world war, so can i ask that you today pledge your support for the peace process in the basque country?
mr president, mr barroso has tantalised us with the promise of principles and orientations for political union. in plain language that means of course treaty change. and the commission contribution to this is vital because the central purpose of the next round of treaty reform is to transform the commission to be a democratic, federal government of a fiscal union. we have to put the council of ministers in order and adjust the role of the european council. and, if we are to start the convention, as we expect to be able to do in the spring of 2015, it is this commission and this parliament which have got to prepare the ground thoroughly.
mr president, though i usually welcome an optimistic outlook and while it is always good to hear from you, president barroso, that the bad times are almost over, i am afraid that for many, this message really just does not fit the reality and, while you may be thinking about popping open the champagne, i would air some caution as the real work is yet to begin. the financial markets may be recovering and the experts may be more optimistic about the eu economy, but if you step outside the bubble, you will see the true consequences of austerity: living, social and working standards dropping; ordinary people feeling the pain; exploitation by predatory employers using zero-hour contracts; a massive rise in food banks and the need for aid across the eu, while energy prices rise and unemployment remains cripplingly high. now is not the time to congratulate ourselves. now is the time to get to work and stop the erosion of living and working conditions caused by austerity across the eu.
mr president, i was extremely disappointed that mr barroso did not answer my main question: why it should be he, the unelected representative of an eu institution, giving the state of the union address rather than the elected representative, mr schulz. maybe you could help me on this point, mr barroso? we do not agree on much, and i do not agree with your vision of a united europe, but i do agree with you, mr barroso, that if the club is going to prosper, if it is going to work, you need all the members inside working towards that. i need to ask you then: why do you not challenge the uk to put up or shut up? why do you go along with the uk prime minister, david cameron, pretending that he can renegotiate to recover powers from the european union? are you saying that he can renegotiate certain items from the treaty of rome? can you just make it clear, once and for all, that renegotiation of significant powers such as the social chapter is not possible? is it not damaging to the european union to have the uk in its current predicament until 2017? is it not time for the uk and its people to decide, sooner rather than later, whether they want the country to remain a member of the european union?
mr president, next year’s european election will not be contested on the old division lines of left and right and several group leaders have agreed with that today. frankly, that is all irrelevant. it will be contested between those of us that believe in national democracy within the nation state and those that believe that the 28 countries that are part of the eu are better governed by these institutions. that in a sense is what this comes down to. but, mr barroso, those of us that believe in national democracy do not want to take us back to the western front or 1914. those of us that believe in national democracy will say to you it is a healthy assertion of identity, but it also shows a deeper understanding of why the problems of europe were caused in the past. it is democratic nation states in europe, that are stable, that will not go to war with each other, which are a force for good and i would remind people that, without the vote in the house of commons two weeks ago, we would now be at war in syria. what better proof can there be that nation state democracy can be a force for good?
mr president, can i first of all thank mr barroso for the unsolicited electoral advice for my party. it is a bit rich coming from the unelected head of the european commission to give us electoral advice on how to prepare for elections, but i suppose that is typical of him. he has spoken for what i totted up to be a total of 55 minutes this morning and of course he played his usual trick of having something for everyone. there was a little bit on a commitment to subsidiarity, which i welcome; i would like to see it in action but nevertheless i welcome it; and of course all the usual guff about more integration being required, more europe being the solution to our problems, accompanied also by the usual scaremongering that somehow the alternative to ever-closer integration is the trenches of the first world war. come on, mr barroso, nobody seriously believes that any more. as usual, your speeches this morning were long on rhetoric but your time in office has been very short on action. i really believe that those of us who believe in less europe and less integration are actually starting to win the arguments in europe now. even mr schulz, in his interview with reuters yesterday – i was amazed – said, if they quoted you correctly, mr president, that the eu cannot do everything and what you can do locally you should do locally. well, of course we welcome the sinner that half-repenteth but, never mind, we should appreciate from where this comes. mr barroso, concerning your grand rhetoric, the journalists in the press room have a terrible habit of playing buzzword bingo with your phrases to see whether you come out with your favourite phrases. i have to say my favourite from this morning which i wrote down is that you said ‘we have to shape a new “normal”’. i hope that makes sense in portuguese because i really do not know what it means in english.
madam president, on 1 september, 52 innocent, unarmed civilians were massacred in camp ashraf in iraq and seven hostages were taken. i understand this morning that these seven hostages, including six women, were secretly flown by helicopter last night to the iranian border where they are about to be handed back to the iranians and will face certain torture and execution. why has baroness ashton not intervened? why are we not insisting that they be released immediately? i ask for your absolute immediate intervention on this issue, madam president.
in writing. – i must laud the commission presidentʼs attempt to put a positive spin on the current state of the union, however, i quite simply fail to buy into his over optimistic and ideological view. and i am sure i am not the only one. europe is, in reality, nowhere near an economic recovery – fragile or otherwise. and this incessant pursuit of forming a europe-wide banking union is unlikely to aid recovery. it is, if anything, more likely to lead europe into an even deeper financial mess. similarly, his suggestion that we continue to work in the same way to alleviate unemployment levels in the eu is simply absurd. one look at the figures tells us that the schemes and systems implemented to date have been ineffective – and yet he insists on forcing the member states to continue down this road to ruin. to end on a positive note, although it is unusual for the commission president to express opinions about the internal political situation in a member state, i welcome his acknowledgement that ukip is fast becoming a real fighting force in uk politics. the real brand of euro-scepticism that our party offers is finally receiving the recognition it deserves.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and hope that the commission and member states heed the advice of mr alfonsi and do much more to preserve, protect and promote regional and minority languages. however, i would like to point out something startling: while we vote to protect and promote minority languages, the eu has still not fulfilled its obligations and has still not afforded the irish language, supposedly an official language of this union, equal status to its counterparts. according to the parliament’s own report voted earlier this week, irish is used more than three other languages which have full interpretation and translation services at their disposal. i sincerely hope to see a strategic approach to rectifying this, so that all languages are treated equally.
in writing. − against. as a welsh mep i am hugely supportive of welsh and other minority languages across europe, however, i do not feel that at this time taxpayers should be carrying any additional burdens. having examined the motion, i voted against the report on the basis of the potential costs involved.
in writing. − i was delighted to support my colleague mr alfonsiʼs report. after donald stewart was elected as an snp westminster mp in the 1970s he introduced the first ever gaelic language bill at that place. when winnie ewing was a member of this house in the 1980s she helped establish the minority languages intergroup. in the 1990s michael russell promoted a gaelic language bill in the scottish parliament and finally, in the 21st century, we have an snp minister responsible for gaelic and scots. my party has campaigned for linguistic diversity for decades so i welcome this excellent report.
in writing. - president, today i voted in favour of the report on endangered european languages and linguistic diversity. considering, for example, the falling number of scottish gaelic speakers, i believe it is important to send a signal to member states and the commission that they should take measures to protect minority languages. i call on the scottish government to work closely with local government and private firms to maximise the drawdown of eu funds such as regional development funding, the european social fund and rural development fund to support technological investment during the next multiannual period. i believe that more can be done to increase the numbers of gaelic speakers by focusing investment in areas where it will be most effective and by making the most of eu funds to support secondary and tertiary education systems. on the eu budget committee, despite deep cuts, i secured an increase in funding opportunities in the 2014-2020 budget for technology development and online learning, to reach out further to preserve the language and the culture of the communities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that minority languages should be protected and promoted. gaelic in scotland for example, is an important part of our heritage and traditions. this report focuses on how best to use linguistic diversity as a way to stimulate creativity and innovation and i believe this is relevant to scotland.
in writing. − coming from wales, i know first hand how challenging it can be to preserve our traditional languages. i am heartened by the increase in the number of welsh speakers in wales, and support initiatives which could further safeguard the future of europe’s languages. i strongly support the promotion of local and regional heritage in the eu context, and believe that the preservation of our diverse range of languages is integral to this. i am in favour of examining these various languages and raising awareness at european level of the implications of their disappearance.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i am against parliament and the eu environment agency having a right to do anything, even exist.
in writing. − against. this report is little more than another ploy to take more taxpayers’ money – i therefore voted against it.
in writing. − today i did not vote in favour of the dab 2/2013. while i accept that the payment of outstanding costs of the 2013 budget was a precondition for agreement of the mff with the council, i am not in favour of paying more money out of the eu budget when member states are tightening their belts and reining in spending.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case.
in writing. − i voted in favour with this report because we need additional financing to cover programmes under the cohesion policy for 2007-2013, the closure of programmes from 2000-2006 and payments for various other headings.
in writing. − against. this report is little more than another ploy to take more of the taxpayers’ money and another attempt to reinforce eu judicial power – i therefore voted against it.
in writing. − against. while i sympathise with those who suffered the awful consequences of the flooding in slovenia, croatia and austria, i simply do not believe that taxpayers in other member states should have to fund these countries’ recovery.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will provide vital funding to areas very badly affected by recent flooding. this fund is very important and scotland may need to take advantage of it in the future.
in writing. − against. while i sympathise with those who suffered the awful consequence of the flooding in slovenia, croatia and austria, i simply do not believe that taxpayers in other member states should have to fund these countries’ recovery.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the solidarity fund following flooding in slovenia, croatia and austria in 2012. i feel it is important to support vital funds to rebuild the affected areas.
in writing. − against. my party is against the vast majority of measures central to this directive – greenhouse gas emissions, carbon capture, the 2020 targets, the use of biofuels, the pseudo-calculation of co2 life cycles and the introduction of more targets and restrictions, to name but a few. in particular, we are against the use of subsidies and this report aims to facilitate the use of eu taxpayers’ money to subsidise industries which, quite simply, would not exist under free market conditions.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the final report, although i have many reservations. however, we need to improve the current situation. this report provides the bare minimum: we voted to include indirect land use change (iluc) factors reflecting the climate impact due to displacement of food production of different feedstocks on greenhouse gas accounting from 2020, and adopted a cap of 6 % on land-based biofuels including energy crops as a safeguard for 2020. my group opposed the 10 % biofuels target when it was first proposed, but found no majority in the ep. we have now seen the damage that the current target is doing in terms of removing land for food production and transferring its use to fuel production. i deeply regret the attitude of some members, who have sought to weaken the commission’s proposal and who now seek to delay agreement with a view to weakening parliament’s position and doing in negotiations what they could not do in the vote.
in writing. – in today’s vote on the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive i supported double counting on cooking oil and animal fats. i firmly believe that these substances should come under the 2.5 % sub-target, as completely excluding them from the target would be a missed opportunity to further help with tackling environmental issues in scotland. i voted in favour of the 6 % cap on biofuels as i feel that this strikes a balance between a smooth transition for those who have already made investments and development opportunities in the sector. i understand the need to slowly move towards new forms of biofuels, which is why i supported a 2.5 % target for advanced biofuels.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because legislation regarding biofuels needs to be updated. there are some challenges associated with the increased use and growing of biofuels, but this report addresses these and will make the spread of biofuels more sustainable.
in writing. − labour meps voted in favour of measures to limit the use of biofuels from food crops and for iluc factors to be introduced to ensure that only sustainable biofuels count towards eu targets. whilst the outcome of the vote did not go as far as labour meps would have wanted, we nevertheless supported the final vote because parliament did agree to iluc factors (though later than we wanted) and to a 6 % cap. however, we are extremely disappointed that parliament did not give a mandate to the rapporteur to enter into negotiations with the council so that meps and ministers could finalise this important law quickly. delays make it extremely difficult to conclude this legislation before the 2014 elections. conservative meps joined other right-wing groups in parliament in blocking a negotiating mandate, despite the position of their own government which was in favour of a cap and iluc factors. once again they have let the country down on environmental issues. labour meps would like to thank the thousands of constituents who contacted them about this important vote and are only sorry it did not have a better outcome.
in writing. − labour meps voted in favour of measures to limit the use of biofuels from food crops and for iluc factors to be introduced to ensure that only sustainable biofuels count towards eu targets. switching to biofuels whose greenhouse gas emissions are no better or even worse than conventional fuels makes no sense and is having a negative impact on world food prices and fuelling land-grab problems in developing countries.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this directive because i believe in working towards a sustainable future. i am pleased to see that target shares for renewable energy of 20% of overall eu energy consumption have been put in place. in line with the concerns of my constituents, i am pleased to see the proposal of a limit on biofuels produced from food crops. i agree that incentives should be provided to stimulate the use of electricity from renewable sources in the transport sector, and also believe that energy efficiency and energy saving measures in the transport sector should be encouraged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which amends the current law on renewable energy and fuel quality. the current legislationʼs targets on the proportion of energy that should come from biofuels has led to indirect land use change (iluc), which sees more land turned over to agricultural production in order to meet the demand for crops that can be used as biofuels. this leads to a loss of habitats and biodiversity and rising food prices, which in turn means that increasing numbers of people cannot afford to eat. the report will impose a cap on the proportion of our energy that can come from crop-based biofuels and will ensure that increased emissions as a result of iluc are taken into account when calculating the potential greenhouse gas savings of biofuels. however, labour meps were disappointed that parliament approved an amendment to set the cap at 6%, rather than the 5.5% we were calling for. we are also concerned that iluc factors will not be binding until 2020 and that this much-needed legislation will be delayed after parliament voted against beginning negotiations with the european council.
in writing. − abstain. i abstained from voting in this case as to support this move to encourage the commission into action, but to oppose it, is to facilitate obstructive franco-spanish epp corporatism.
in writing. − the current eel recovery plan is not working and change is needed to protect eel stocks and the jobs they provide. the commission must listen to what parliament has said today and bring forward new proposals, within the framework of a decentralised cfp, at the earliest possible opportunity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because eels are in need of more protection from the eu. the report called for better data collection measures, better implementation of the eel management plans with the necessary guidelines. i believe that further measures should be taken where necessary to reduce mortality caused by other factors besides fishery, so as to meet the targets of the plan. i support the reportʼs calls on member states to collect data needed for research in order to quantify the impacts of measures taken on the eel stock, find mitigation measures and recommend management targets.
in writing. − against. i voted against this modernisation of the unionʼs customs legislation as i am against any eu legislation on customs per se.
in writing. − the union customs code relates to a fundamental area of eu competence and the compromise reached is entirely satisfactory.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it facilitates data collection and removes the ceiling on the number of holdings to be covered.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as my party is against the commission having any powers over the foodstuff mentioned, namely coffee extracts, chicory extracts, cocoa and chocolate products, certain sugars intended for human consumption, fruit jams, jellies and marmalades, sweetened chestnut puree, and dehydrated preserved milk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the issues which would have affected scotland have been overcome. definitions of certain foods will remain unchanged and there is an ‘escape clause’ which means that member states can derogate from certain rules if they so wish to.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it is clear to me that it is an attempt by the eu to create yet another back-door means of entry into the union so as to ensure an increase in the supply of cheap labour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu has adopted a political agreement with cape verde in which their relations will be strengthened. the aim is to achieve good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and poverty alleviation. the visa liberalisation will not affect non-schengen countries; therefore the uk will not be affected.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it is clear to me that it is an attempt by the eu to create yet another back-door means of entry into the union so as to ensure an increase in the supply of cheap labour.
in writing. − against. this report calls for yet more eu spending on youth initiatives such as the youth guarantee scheme which have, to date, proved ineffective.
in writing. − as the overwhelming majority of this house votes to support this report on the youth strategy, it is telling that the uk tories are part of the right-wing fringe voting against. the tories have been utterly and repeatedly rejected by scots of all ages because they offer nothing for the future. this house believes in europeʼs youth; the tories offer nothing but stagnation.
in writing. − this report on the implementation of the eu youth strategy has a well-intended goal to provide young people with more and better opportunities. i agree with many of the goals in this report as it is setting a framework for international cooperation on youth issues. it makes a positive contribution to the fight against high rates of youth unemployment across europe. but unfortunately this report also includes a section called ‘european citizenship’. as a group we absolutely cannot support paragraph 63 which calls on the commission to ‘develop more initiatives to strengthen eu integration and urges the member states to incorporate european studies courses into education curricula’. education is a competence of the member states and should always be so. it is disappointing that the report criticises member states for spending cuts in education. member states should not be criticised for taking these unfortunate, but needed, measures following the crisis. the eu needs to become more flexible to allow for the growth we need to give our young people opportunities. unfortunately, i had to vote against this report.
in writing. − i believe it is vital for young people in my constituency of london that during this period of crisis the eu will continue to inspire youth by providing more opportunities in education and training, by supporting an innovative and entrepreneurial spirit, by funding youth and education programmes and employment initiatives, and by believing that this has a multiplying effect on growth in europe.
in writing. − i supported this report as i believe that we need to invest in the futures of the young people of europe. by evaluating the implementation of the first cycle of the youth strategy we can assess the effectiveness of the strategy and address any potential challenges for the next cycle. i believe that the areas covered by the report, including education, employment, entrepreneurship, health, social inclusion and participation are essential to overcoming the issue of youth unemployment.
in writing. − against. this report calls for yet more eu spending on youth initiatives such as the youth guarantee scheme which have, to date, proved ineffective.
in writing. − unemployment in the eu recently reached the 26 million mark, with youth unemployment standing at 5 560 million in the eu-28. despite the gravity of the downward spiralling situation, assurances that jobs will be provided for all, regardless of the productivity necessary to deliver them, borders on negligence. it is not governments which create jobs or drive growth, although this report certainly seems to suggest that, but businesses and entrepreneurs. in a concept quite so divorced from reality it is unsurprising then that the very numbers themselves do not adhere to realism. the ‘youth guarantee’ scheme supported by this report, assuring every young european of a job, has pledged eur 8 billion to the worst hit countries over the next two years. yet with one in five not working, training or in education in spain and italy and one in four in greece, it is the equivalent of only eur 850 a year for every young european outside of work or education in those countries. it is a bill that we will leave future generations to pay. instead of opening markets or cutting taxation, completing the single market or fostering foreign direct investment through free trade agreements, we call for more stifling red tape and regulations. when will it end?
in writing. − i abstained on this report which is a weakening of parliamentʼs previous position. our young people need action on jobs, not just warm words. the scottish government is showing the way forward in this area. scottish students get a free education in line with the tradition of the democratic intellect and in contrast to other parts of the uk. the commission for developing scotland’s young workforce was established by the scottish government in january 2013 to bring forward recommendations in this area. however, only with independence will the potential of scotlandʼs youth be fully released.
in writing. − i supported this own-initiative report which assesses issues surrounding the current problem of youth unemployment in europe. i support youth guarantee schemes, but we also need to have extra measures in place to deal with the huge problem of youth unemployment. quality offers of employment, training or education for young people, for example, are vital and making sure that they get the appropriate pay and rights for the work they carry out is a key issue. the report highlights the link between austerity and unemployment. without more investment to fight youth unemployment, young people will face continued uncertainty and will be unable to progress with their careers. we need to make sure, outside of formal education, that peopleʼs skills are being recognised and developed to their full extent; for example through traineeships, social work and volunteering. there should be no barriers for young people who want to learn, train or work and i believe this report outlines some good ideas which could complement youth guarantee schemes across the eu.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as operating an internal market for services has not proved effective to date, so why should we expect this to change moving forward?
in writing. − i voted against the services directive in 2006 because it was driven by an agenda of market liberalisation and privatisation. at the time those in the right, including the uk tory and labour parties said we were wrong and that the directive would stimulate the economy. seven years on it is apparent that these claims were wrong. this report seems not to have learned any lessons and i accordingly voted against. vital public services should remain publicly owned.
in writing. – i voted against this report. not a single proposal from the committee on employment and social affairs was taken on board: there is nothing that seems to imply that the services directive has done anything that might be negative. ‘only open up our markets and jobs and prosperity will follow’ seems to be its message. this house would not even confirm its previous position, enshrined in the directive, to preserve the exclusion of welfare services from its scope. overriding reasons of general interest must be available to local authorities if they are to be able to develop their local economy. i also deeply resent being told that if i vote against this directive, i am voting against jobs – especially when the report contains no analysis of the effect of the directive on job loss or job quality. there is much we can do to create employment but a blind faith in opening up markets and further competition does not amount to a job creation strategy.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i am against the concept of an eu to decide about british foreign affairs and to conclude any international or bilateral treaties.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, madam high representative, syria remains the most pressing challenge to international peace and security, with more than 100 000 dead, 2 million refugees and now the alleged horrific use by the assad regime of sarin gas on 21 august 2013. this violates customary international law under the 1925 geneva gas protocol and rightly demands a robust response by the international community. i too suggested a no-fly zone as the only way to deter further use of chemical weapons and force assad back to the negotiating table, given that a limited surgical strike now is likely to hit mainly empty buildings. the ecr group welcomes the newest proposals on the table from president obama to drop the us plan for a very effective military strike in exchange for the handover and destruction of syrian weapons of mass destruction. the fact that russia and iran have readily accepted this suggestion and proposal is to me suggestive of an admission that their ba’athist regime ally actually possesses chemical weapons, despite the fact that assad’s regime attempted, right up to the last minute, to deny that they owned the things in the first place, and to deny the atrocious use of them against their own people. this new diplomatic solution raises many challenges, not least those of verification and of trust in a totalitarian regime not known for acting in good faith, as well as the fact that they may try to conceal some of the chemical weapons stockpile. it does not, of course, solve the problem of war crimes which, clearly, have already been committed with impunity by both sides. nor does it ensure a return to geneva ii or a political settlement in which assad and his family depart and a new democratically elected government emerges. president obama has made it clear that if this latest proposal fails he reserves the right to use the us military to act surgically and appropriately to deter future use of gas against civilians and also, of course, against troops in conflict everywhere, which would bring back the horrors and memories of the first world war. lastly, i deplore the cynical use to date by russia and china of the un security council in preventing a politically imposed solution to this terrible crisis.
mr president, i represent a group which is against military action in syria. we are against it not because we are pacifists; we are against it not because we do not care about the awful things going on there. we are against it because we think there is some pretty poor thinking going on. the idea that somehow the rebels are the good guys and assad’s regime are the bad guys really is an over-simplification of a situation in which we know that al-qa’ida has significant representation amongst the rebel groups. of course, we have seen it all before: an endless series of military adventures over the course of the last 10 to 15 years. one such, in afghanistan, is still going on and is not achieving any of the original aims. i was worried when i heard the americans telling us, to begin with, that it was about punishing assad and then, within a week, that it was about regime change – a position which i know the noble baroness herself supports. we think that firing a thousand cruise missiles is likely to make an unstable situation even worse than it is now. in a sense, baroness ashton, you are sitting pretty because, as the highest-paid female politician in the world, luckily you have a non-job because the eu, thank goodness, has not yet got a foreign policy and, as a result of that, what we saw two weeks ago in the uk house of commons was a nation-state democracy standing up and saying something. as a direct result of that vote in the house of commons, we have not gone to war in syria: we have entered a period of negotiations and assad has a chance to prove to all of us whether he is a good man or a bad man. i do not know how this will play out but at least, mr verhofstadt, there is a chance of peace, and i know that you represent the kind of political class who believe that global influence can be achieved only through bombing. well, luckily – unlike extreme eu nationalists like yourself – british democracy has proved that nation-state parliaments can actually made people rethink. and, mr president, i have to say, as somebody who has been here now for 14 years, it is ironic that the view which i used to represent was called extreme, but you can see who are the extreme militarists now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr farage, you talked about the good guys and the bad guys. it is not about the good guys and the bad guys. you are well informed about the battlefields of the first world war: you take a great interest in that war and you remember the horrors of the use of gas. would you not accept that a red line has been crossed by the assad regime in using gas against its own people? and, if so, what should be done to stop other dictators and despots using it elsewhere; not just against civilians but in military conflicts? what would your response be to the use of weapons of mass destruction – to simply sit back and do nothing?
blue-card answer. – the ‘good guys versus bad guys’ story is really something i take from your own foreign secretary and party member william hague, who was urging the international community to arm the rebels – which struck me, given that we know of al-qa’ida’s involvement, as total and utter madness. i will remain cynical and sceptical, like much of the european public, about who has used those weapons until we get the full report and we get the intelligence right. we went to war in iraq being told that saddam had weapons of … (interjection to mr verhofstadt, who had been shouting objections: ‘why don’t you shut up and listen for a change? you really must be the vilest, rudest man in european politics and you rant on and the chair lets you get away with it because you are the former prime minister of belgium. well, there we are.’) so, mr tannock, i understand what you are saying. i understand that something ghastly has happened here, but before you take military action you need to be certain you are going to make things better and not worse. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – sir, i would say this to you. i have never described the romanians as living like pigs. what i said was that the romanians treat their roma minority like pigs. all right? so let us get that absolutely clear. you and your country discriminate against a large group of people in a way we have not seen in europe since the 1930s. all right? now, look. i am not taking sides in this civil war. but i am saying this: that whether it is through the use of gas, or whether it is through the use of other forms of high explosives or bullets, there are terrible things happening in syria – i understand that and i agree – but rushing to war as we did in afghanistan, as we did in iraq, was a mistake and mr cameron tried to bounce us into war and, thank goodness, the house of commons has given us pause for thought. surely that must be a good thing.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the high representative on such a strong statement from vilnius on the basis of such a weak consensus among member states. if any development shows how weak our member states are on their own and how much we now need a common policy to regain influence in the world, it is our impotence in the face of assad’s almost certain use of chemical weapons. almost one hundred years after the use of poison gas on our continent we have – rightly – un conventions to prohibit their use. those conventions establish the basis for action. so yes, use the un apparatus. yes, encourage russia to engage. yes, keep up your efforts for geneva ii. but no, do not leave it at that. if those avenues fail, then act. because otherwise it will happen again and again and again, and not only in syria.
mr president, unusually – i must say – i find myself actually agreeing with much that baroness ashton had to say in her statement. it was modest, with no eu hubris, and no desperate search for some sort of eu role. the harsh fact is that dictators such as bashir al-assad only understand force and, as many colleagues have pointed out, it is only the threat of the use of force that has forced action and broken the political deadlock. the russian proposal clearly has some merit and some attraction, but we should be under no illusions: it was cooked up in moscow between the russian and syrian foreign ministers. it has been effective in delaying military action by the us and her allies, and the danger is that assad will merely continue to use a full range of weapons, short of wmd, to press home his military advantage. yesterday, for example, syrian government aircraft staged three raids over rebel-held areas of damascus. the war goes on. it seems to me that we need to press for an immediate ceasefire and for chemical weapons to be brought under international control. may i just say that the key issue is that agreements and international conventions have to be enforced, and therefore we need to give full support to the united states in her endeavours. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
blue-card answer. – i do not resile at all from my statement. quite clearly these people only understand the threat of force, and that threat of force has to be credible. the problem we seem to have at the moment is that there has been a threat and now we seem rather unsure about whether or not we can use it. that is the great problem. we should be under no illusions that this is the only thing that people like assad and other dictators will understand, and they have got to know that we mean it. that is why i say we have got to give all possible support to the united states because, after all, the united nations has shown itself incapable of making sure that conventions and international agreements are properly implemented.
mr president, having spoken in damascus with many relatives of victims of the islamist war on syria, i hope that we all welcome the russian proposal to put chemical weapons beyond use, without an escalation of the conflict. we should do everything possible to help this diplomacy to succeed, because if it falters obama, hollande, cameron and the other neo-con puppets will drag us into a conflict that is certain to spiral out of control. obama claims there will be no boots on the ground. that is a lie, because if the us bombs syria into the clutches of al-qa’ida, then syria’s chemical weapon stockpile will end up in the hands not of the united nations decommissioning teams, but of the heirs of osama bin laden. american, british and european troops will then have to be sent in to try and secure those weapons, and our soldiers will die in syria in order to stop children dying in islamist poison gas attacks, not just in damascus but in paris, london and new york. that is why we should turn the russian peace proposal into reality.
mr president, either we have a responsibility to protect, as defined in the united nations in 2006 and subsequently, or we do not have a responsibility to protect and therefore we can allow people happily to kill one another while we watch. for two years we have watched and there have been 2 million refugees, 6 million people displaced and 100 000 dead while we have been watching. why did we watch? because we knew that the syrian opposition had al-qa’ida embedded within it and we did not want al-qa’ida to win. we let arab kill arab, moderate kill jihadi, sunni kill shia: it was none of our business. but a red line was crossed with chemical weapons. we realised that the situation had gone beyond what we could control. here i can congratulate baroness ashton on her very timely intervention to try to pull the rearing horses of the apocalypse back. however, we have to decide. do we have a responsibility to protect, as the international community has said before, or do we not?
mr president, the events of the last 24 hours mean that we are not debating the provenness of chemical weapons but the provenness of their disposal. from northern ireland, in my own country, to what the european union itself did in indonesia, to what germany and others are doing today in libya, there is a wealth of international experience to verify decommissioning. the credibility of the russian offer will now depend on the validity of the decommissioning process. for me, that means it being undertaken within a united nations framework and in the context of a un resolution enabling the international community to coalesce towards ending all crimes against humanity and war crimes in syria. my party, britain’s labour party, concluded that the british prime minister had failed to make the case for military action. yes, of course, lessons had to be learned about iraq, but this week’s events in syria show the foolishness of prematurely ending the work of weapons inspectors when that work has just become very much more substantial. the prospect of military action did not simply cause desperately-needed humanitarian workers to be removed from the country, but also alienated some in the mena region and amongst the bric countries who are most needed to meet their pledges for humanitarian assistance. europe must lead the argument for the un appeal to be met in full, using this month’s annual meeting of the unhcr as a real opportunity to do so. food will run out next month. the size of food parcels has already been made smaller. our ambition should be to prevent chemical attacks but, at one and the same time, to secure peace.
the debate is closed. i have received seven motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place on thursday, 12 september 2013. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – as the bloodshed continues in syria, i am distressed by the escalation of killings by both the army and the opposition forces. the use of chemical weapons is a war crime and it appears increasingly likely that the syrian regime is to blame, with even the arab league accusing president assad of genocide. i want the unrest to end in syria. i want to see the demise of the assad regime. but, like the majority of the british people, i do not want to see members of her majesty’s armed forces dragged into the conflict. 179 british servicemen and women died in iraq, more than all the other eu countries combined. in afghanistan this figure rises to 444, again more than all the other eu countries combined. i am not an isolationist who does not wish to intervene in syria merely to protect british lives, but i do not believe that a military response will succeed in bringing an end to the conflict. i also fear the unintended consequences of such an intervention. i am pleased that the british parliament has spoken against intervention and i hope that this parliament too will reject the military option.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in egypt (2013/2820(rsp)).
before we go on with the debate can i briefly pause to welcome a very special group of visitors. today the european parliament welcomes 200 members of the european network for independent living. these are 200 disabled people who every two years make a freedom drive to strasbourg, and this is the 10th anniversary of their attempt to raise awareness of disability, and in particular to seek a commissioner for the disabled. can i ask all my colleagues to rise and salute our visitors who are disabled. (the house accorded the visitors a standing ovation)let us hope that the european union will adopt in full the un convention on the rights of peoples with disabilities.
we now continue with the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in egypt.
all i can say is: yallah, lady ashton, on syria and egypt. the debate is closed. i have received six motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place on thursday, 12 september 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by ana gomes, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on maritime dimension of the common security and defence policy (2012/2318(ini)) (a7-0220/2013), and – the report by marietta giannakou, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu’s military structures: state of play and future prospects (2012/2319(ini)) (a7-0205/2013).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, well today we have heard quite modest speeches from both commission president barroso on his state of the union and from baroness ashton. a change from the ambitious rhetoric of a year ago and i would like to think that the penny is beginning to drop; a realisation that there is neither the political appetite nor the resources for some sort of european federation strutting the world’s stage stressed in khaki and navy blue. yet the two reports on csdp that we are now considering repeat the old grandiose mantras of eu military headquarters, eu battle groups, 60 000 man deployments, indeed eu armed forces with admiral gomes’ dream of great eu-flagged armadas roaming the oceans from the pacific to the arctic. now the only problem is that no one wants to pay for any of this and few want to take on the tough military challenges, and in any case, and most importantly, it is all being done already: at nato. everything which is suggested – operational headquarters, pooling and sharing, coordinated defence planning, support for defence r&d, improved isr assets, development of uavs, strategic lift, air-to-air refuelling, tackling piracy – is all being done already, and the most brilliant idea, the one that would create yet another category of ins and outs among european allies, is for the more ambitious federalists to create their own little army through permanent structured cooperation. i have a simple question for the council and the commission. why does the eu not try to get its act together and concentrate its crisis management efforts on civil and humanitarian contributions, instead of trying to play soldiers. this would complement nato and might actually be useful. how refreshing it would be for the eu at its so-called defence council in december to announce that it will forthwith put its energies into civil action and encourage eu member states to play a full military role in nato. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule149(8))
blue-card answer. – i can assure you that i have. i have read them in great detail. not only that, but i put down dozens of amendments in the committee, so i think you can take it for granted that i have read them and i actually understand some of the terminology that is in the report. i wonder if everyone else does. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well i think you have raised some very interesting points. i am not suggesting for a moment that the eu be subordinated to nato, but i also do not agree that the eu should have autonomy in terms of defence matters. i think the nato alliance is our primary defence alliance, it should have first bite at the cherry. one of the great strengths of nato is that a crisis can be discussed around the table, not only with european allies but with the united states and canada as well. that is one of its great strengths. nato should decide whether or not it is going to address a crisis. i see no reason whatsoever why in nato structures we should not have a decision that ‘ok, this is something where our european allies within nato should take the lead’; they have the full support of other members of the alliance, but they should take the lead. what i object to is this duplication of structures and capacity and capability, and this whole fiction that is invented as if somehow or other the eu is just doing stuff on its own and the rest of the world does not exist. that is cloud-cuckoo land.
mr president, we are used to the eu using the crisis as a pretext for greater integration of member states’ economies: it is now being used as a pretext for pooling defence industries and capabilities. apparently, surrender of the ability to take independent action is a panacea for all ills. sovereign states that lose their own capabilities and defence industries cease to be sovereign. supranational bodies that gain a capacity to wage war without the express consent of member countries become, by stealth, sovereign states. but of course that is the idea. the report seems to look back at previous involvement in conflicts with a degree of nostalgia and bemoans the fact that the eu does not have a clear common security and defence policy. it refers with approval to the 2008 european council meeting at which the objective was set to be capable of deploying a force of 60 000 in 60 days. i am afraid i cannot be sanguine about the possibility of a trigger-happy eu deploying an army of that size. alliances such as the eu mutual defence clause have the potential for transforming a localised conflict into a world war. if we doubt it, think of 1914.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, along with my group, the ecr, i have long taken an interest in the eastern partnership countries. ukraine, georgia and armenia, in particular, are countries i have come to know well during the last few years as they work hard to build strong, accountable democracies from the wreckage of their soviet past. it is therefore particularly distressing to witness what has happened this month in armenia, which spent so long negotiating an association agreement and a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) with the european union – agreements that would have offered real benefits to the armenian people and economy – and to see president sargsyan and his government coming under intolerable pressure from moscow to reject that avenue and opt instead to join the eurasian customs union. president putin, whose crackdown on civil rights is plain for all to see, seems determined to bribe and bully his immediate neighbours in a calculated bid to spite europe and resurrect russia’s so-called ‘near abroad’, both politically and economically, as a zone of influence. for armenia this is tragic, but the russian threats to supply arms to azerbaijan and destabilise the fragile peace in nagorno-karabakh, and to raise energy prices, left this small country with little choice. we can only hope that yesterday’s announcement of a ban on moldovan wine, which i believe is against world trade organization rules, will not compel chisinau to follow yerevan; and, even more importantly, that tbilisi and kiev – and of course ukraine is the big prize for the russians – will not also succumb to russian pressure. i am confident, however, that ukraine, being a much bigger country, will be able to resist. of course, the russians have this ridiculous outdated zero-sum game as their world view. in the meantime, let us do all we can in the european union to extend the hand of friendship to the eastern partnership countries in the true spirit of partnership, and work with them to build political and cultural links, whatever they decide for the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i fully support the need to map out a strategy with a response to and evaluation of the very serious challenges the european union faces every day to the security of its borders and the safety of its citizens, and consequently to the implementation of its measures in this area. there is much in this resolution i support: i have long been a great supporter of the work of europol, advocating strong cooperation and information exchange in the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism within the union. however, too often our priorities in this area lack the clear, precise and focused suggestions which make for effective solutions. often there is an implication in our work that the ability to provide security and protection is at odds with the ability to protect individual rights. i had hoped we would seek to review and to suggest changes in a more constructive way. i am afraid that, whilst i especially support and commend the efforts of mr lópez aguilar as rapporteur, and he is, after all, a good guy, the final results of this resolution fall short of providing real coherent strategy, and consequently usefulness, given the mixed messages on what exactly parliament’s priorities are in this field.
mr president, i have written a speech for mr diamandouros, but what can i say? mr diamandouros, listening to the compliments here today, you must think you are listening to your own obituary, but indeed you are not. it is a reality. you have done tremendous work but there has been heavy opposition. you have sided with parliament on our approach to access to documents; it is sad that a great number of the complaints are still about access to documents, openness and transparency. but in your work and with your staff, you have ensured that all of the institutions are much more accountable to our citizens than they were before. the work that you have done on the convention for people with disabilities is incredible. the tireless way that you have held us accountable will not be forgotten. can i also say that the fact that emily o’reilly is to be our next ombudswoman – can we please start saying ‘ombudswoman’ – is a brilliant reminder that the position must not only be politically neutral, but must be perceived to be. so yes, you will leave us. yes, you have done 10 years of brilliant work. i am pleased to say that in the committee on petitions, we are keeping along your line, holding to those petitions, like the ones in southern spain on illegal builds and on urbanisation, that still have not been resolved. but, mr diamandouros, i know your activism and your passion will remain. and i think one of the best things we can say is that, having taken over from jacob söderman, your legacy will ensure that the work of the ombudsman under ms o’reilly will continue.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, today’s vote on a single supervisory mechanism was first announced in july 2012 as part of the new banking union for the eurozone. however, there are three important aspects still incomplete: achieving a deposit guarantee scheme; a framework for the recovery and resolution of banks; and, of course, establishing a common resolution fund for those euurozone banks in trouble. none of these matters, however, should be rushed: getting the architecture of the eurozone right, this time round, is critical. it is therefore of paramount concern to anyone, inside or outside the single supervisory mechanism, that we build this new structure with care and pre-awareness of the potential consequences for all the players. the many safeguards and democratic accountability mechanisms that we are all used to in our national context have been assured in this new pan-european supervisory structure, although the ecb, as an independent supervisor, should be aware that independent does not mean unaccountable. parliament’s negotiating team has insisted on an interinstitutional agreement which allows parliament greater scrutiny over the ecb’s decisions on banking supervision. we have put in place a system whereby parliament should be in a position to understand, and hopefully to explain to our citizens, the difficult decisions that the ecb will have to take in future about the state of banks and the economy at large. my group was keen to ensure that the supervisory arm of the ecb and the monetary policy arm of the ecb remain separate. monetary policy should always be free from political influence, and i am happy to say that this has been achieved with separate staffing arrangements and separate reporting lines, as well as specific supervisory board decisions to be agreed within a structure that will then be proposed to the governing council for endorsement. uniquely in the european parliament, the ecr group has more members from countries outside the eurozone than from countries within it. some of those countries are signed up to join the eurozone, while my own member state, of course, is not. i would therefore like to say a personal thank you to the members of the negotiating team, in particular ms thyssen and mr giegold, for recognising that for banking union to work it must take into account the needs of those outside the eurozone as well as those within it. this package, which we will vote on today, establishes the single banking supervisor for the eurozone area whilst respecting the integrity of the single market. while so many eurozone banks are operating across eu borders, and own many banks in non-eurozone countries, the success of this single supervisory mechanism is of importance to all european countries. i fully recognise that it was hard for some parliamentarians to support a dual voting structure within the european banking authority, but safeguarding the single market for those who have chosen to stay outside the eurozone is yet another key to economic recovery and future stability. big political projects which fail to take into account the realities on the ground are part of the reason why we have had a wider sovereign debt crisis in the eurozone. i can only ask that my colleagues working on the other legs of the banking union are also open-minded in considering the views of those who remain outside the ecb single supervisory regime. ensuring fairness for all member states, and allowing those who choose to do so to stay outside single systems, can and does make a difference both practically and emotionally to my constituents. a more integrated financial system for the euro area is becoming a reality within a broader single market.
mr president, the customs union is a key tenet of the eu. the changes to be adopted in this report will modernise and simplify procedures, therefore reducing bureaucracy and allowing united kingdom businesses to operate with greater ease. in providing a means for all transactions to be carried out electronically by 2020, these proposals will make the customs procedures fit for purpose in the digital age. furthermore, this update has allowed for the rules governing origin markings of products to be strengthened, including providing measures aimed at ensuring the traceability of products from third-party countries. this will give british consumers greater protection against counterfeit products and bring increased confidence to the system of origins and their markings. these changes will also bring benefits to businesses and consumers throughout the rest of europe, helping to make the eu more competitive globally. the widespread support that these proposals have received at committee stage is testament to their quality. i am pleased, along with the ecr group, to be able to add my support.
mr president, i wonder how many of the people watching this clip are aware that there is such a thing as a european obudsman? it is not for want of trying to tell them. the budget of that office has grown this year to eur 9.5 million, but the basic function of an ombudsman, which is to inform a citizen of his rights and deal with grievances against the governmental system, depends on some relationship between government and government, on some sense of citizenship, on some sense of belonging, and the reality is that almost no one has such a sense vis-à-vis the european union in the way that they have vis-à-vis their national authorities. we have created a government where there is no nation and in consequence not all the euros in our treasury will serve to convince people that this is a process in which they ought to be involved.
mr president, it is usual for the committee on petitions to report on the activities of the european ombudsman and we have heard that there is some good work carried out on behalf of the citizens of many eu member states who have a complaint to bring or an example of some aspect of maladministration. however, as my colleague, dan hannan, asked earlier on, where is the awareness? i think that one of the things we have to ask is that, even though there are staff doing some very good work, one of the questions that we repeatedly refuse to answer or get an answer to is whether that eur 9.5 million budget actually represents good value for money. of course they do good work, but are they doing it in a cost-effective way? until we are able to answer that question, as with so many other institutions here at the eu level and until we have proper accountability in that way, we have to reserve judgement.
in writing. − abstain. i abstained from voting in this case as i see the ombudsman is a modest chink of light upon the activities of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report that welcomes the hard work done by mr nikiforos diamandouros in his role of european ombudsman. the role of the european ombudsman is vital in helping the eu institutions become more open, effective and citizen-friendly, building bridges between the institutions and citizens. that makes it important for my constituents in wales.
mr president, mass migration is a central geo-political factor of our age; huge movements of peoples in a way that is unprecedented, and we can measure it in lots of different ways. we can describe it with different language, we can talk about it as a move from south to north, or from poorer countries to developed ones. but one way of looking at it is that there is a mass movement of peoples from countries which do not have nation states and ethnographic borders to countries that do. the biggest refugee crises now engulfing our near abroad, if you like, are those in syria and iraq, countries where the sectarian or ethnic map resembles a fruit salad. there have been 1.8 million displaced persons in syria, 2.2 million in iraq, because there is not that stability of the nation state, a unit to which all owe allegiance, which has been the basis of european freedom and democracy. i am sure you can see where i am going with this argument. it would be crazy for us to replicate the ottoman or habsburg model and throw away that advantage on our own continent.
mr president, this report really came about after the eu granted visa-free travel to some of the western balkan countries and some of the countries complained that they could not cope with what they called an influx. i think this shows how sensitive the immigration issue is. my personal view is that i have no objections to those who want to move to another country, as long as it fits in with the national immigration system and the numbers, but who are also prepared to work hard and contribute to that country. but of course there are problems occurring and it also affects problems of national cohesion. for that reason, i think it is right that the commission have looked at that but they have to recognise the concerns that have been raised by citizens of many eu countries, particularly in my own country, for example, when it comes to so-called benefit tourism. so let us make sure that we have a comprehensive review and ensure that those who contribute to those countries are not penalised.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as i do not believe the eu should have the power to bend the rules regarding visas as and when they see fit. this must remain an exclusive prerogative of the uk government.
in writing. − i voted against this report, as it allows for the temporary suspension of the visa waiver for a third country on the positive list in case of an increase in the number of irregular migrants and rejected asylum applications. one reform that i know my constituents in wales welcomed in the eu was the increased powers for parliament. i do not believe we should relinquish our role in decision-making.
mr president, allow me to make an argument which is almost past the point where it can be uttered in polite society. i am going to challenge the idea that the problems we have had in the financial sector were caused by an absence of regulation. it simply does not accord with the facts. our own financial services authority publishes a guide book on compliance with its rules that now runs to 10 500 pages. with the possible exception of nuclear power, it is hard to think of a more regulated industry than the financial services sector. the reality is that this regulation, which encourages consolidation and higher compliance costs, has created the ‘too big to fail’ phenomenon that led to the crash. how about this – it may sound counter-intuitive – if you make people responsible for their own losses, if it is clear that they will carry the can, then you will not need all of these regulatory bodies, because the strongest incentive will be there to prevent bankruptcy. if you give people more responsibility, they behave more responsibly.
mr president, it has been nearly six years since the run on northern rock and more than five years since lehman brothers collapsed, and what have we done at eu level? we have brought in a whole new european supervisory architecture – the european banking authority (eba), the european securities and markets authority, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, the systemic risk board – but what we have not done is to tackle the fundamental problems. there are three things we should be focusing on. firstly, there should be no more taxpayer bailouts for failing banks, but it should be ensured that essential services continue while a failing bank is being wound down. secondly, we should make sure that there is director liability. i have no objection to bankers earning as much money as possible if they perform well, but if they preside over failure they should pay the price. let them be aware what is on their balance sheet. thirdly, let us put an end to accounting standards that allow banks to have financial instruments on their balance sheet whereby they can book profits up front but not make sufficient provision for losses. those three principles will go much further than the eba in tackling the fundamental problems of banking.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it is yet another example of the fundamental extension of eu economic control, which will harm the uk and the cityʼs interests.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which calls for supervision of credit institutions at eu level. we need to do all in our power to prevent another economic crisis. in order to ensure this, the eu needs to have a banking authority and supervise credit institutions. although wales is not in the euro zone, these steps are in all our interests.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is on the proposal of the single supervision mechanism (ssm) package within the banking union. the original proposal from the commission proposes to adapt the current legislative framework on eba to take into account the impact and consequences of the ecb regulation, notably regarding decision-making processes between participating and non-participating countries to the ssm. this will benefit my constituents.
in writing. − confidence in the euro area is vital for the stability of the uk economy, most especially in my constituency of london. i was happy to support this report and the s&d line on it. the safeguards labour meps have secured will make sure that the uk is fully involved in the decisions taken by the eba.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european supervisory authority. i did so because i believe that banking union should ensure that proper consideration has been given to the potential spillover effects of the banking union to both euro and non-euro area members at every stage. i support the requirement for the ecb to perform all supervisory tasks in a non-discriminatory manor, which is also consistent with the functioning of the internal market. i believe that the single market and the cohesion of the eu must be secured, and that equal treatment of member states participating in the ssm and other member states must be guaranteed.
in writing. − many times i have stood before this house and i have complained about the eu’s one-size-fits-all policy. we have seen how treating the economy of greece as if it were the same as the economy of finland has led to the eurozone crisis. the proposals on the european banking authority, for once, treat countries differently. some might even say that they create the conditions for a two-speed europe. this is not necessarily a bad thing. allowing countries to move at different speeds, while still protecting the integrity of the single market, is a fitting model for the future shape of the eu. this is the kind of eu the uk wants following the renegotiation of our membership terms. we will not stand in the way of those countries who wish to surrender sovereignty. however we will not be dragged into the mire of a european superstate along with them. i am pleased that this report allows the city of london to remain the pre-eminent financial centre of the eu. member states must treasure london as much as i do. they must not be jealous of london’s success, but realise that what is good for the city is also good for europe.
mr president, when we look at the euro crisis we need to get real, and there are essentially two solutions. the first is to let the weaker countries go: let them default, devalue and be more competitive. but we know that most people here do not want that to happen because it would be a psychological blow to building the european project – the united states of europe, the federal republic of europe. the alternative is to look at successful currency unions and how those work: they have transfers from the richer parts to the poorer parts, and that means you have to be honest with the electorate in many of the richer eu countries and tell them that if they want to keep the euro together, and to stay in the euro, the best way forward is to have transfers from the richer parts to the poor parts. that is the best economic argument but, of course, we know that politicians do not want to be honest with their electorate. at some stage, however, they are going to have to be.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it represents yet another long term increase in eu economic control, especially over the city and british economics.
mr president, the rapid advance in the field of genetic technology has understandably unsettled a number of our constituents. we cannot always put our finger on what it is that we are disquieted about, but somewhere deep down it feels wrong, for example to take an anti-freezing gene from an arctic fish and put it in a tomato or whatever. i am not sure though that public policy ought to reflect inchoate prejudice. i am not saying that prejudice is invalid. i am enough of a burkean to recognise that public feeling does not always need to be strictly rational, but the key thing for us is to allow people to choose. if the european union repeatedly stands in the way of advances in technology, not on the basis of science but based on a sense of giving people creepiness, then we take away the basic responsibility of each consumer to be able to make a judgement about what is in his or her interest.
mr president, i think this report on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilisation in the union actually goes to the heart of a very interesting dilemma. what about those who invest time, money, resources in advancing technology – in this case genetic technology – and what about those in the wider populations who would benefit if they actually had access to some of these resources or the research that derive from that technology? and the question we have to ask ourselves is: is it right for it to be mandated in a particular way at eu level or is it right to let the market do its job? at first, as it starts off, only a small number of people have access but over time, as the technology develops, the prices come down and everything can become more widely used. my preference is for a market approach, as so often happens with successful technology.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it represents another case of the eu meddling with access to genetic resources in a way that they are not equipped to do so.
mr president, at times when we seek a solution to some of these environmental problems we find ourselves looking at the one-size-fits-all solution from eu level rather than looking at solutions closer to home. there should actually be no political disagreement on the need for more micro-generation. as one of my colleagues said earlier, it has been estimated in the uk that 30% of energy could come from micro-generation. perhaps, however, we can also learn a lesson from the past. over the years, we have seen the demise of many of the old windmills and watermills that used to be in our towns. maybe we could see more riverside properties starting to generate more of their own energy, and work on harnessing tidal energy as well. at the same time we see more and more street furniture being powered by solar energy. if we can encourage that, perhaps the solution to our problems is closer to home.
in writing. − i voted against this report as eu energy policy is quite simply a generic disaster in all areas.
in writing. − i welcomed this important resolution. equal pay for work of equal value is a basic principle in the eu, however the gender pay gap across the eu has remained very high. this resolution requests that the commission support member states in reducing the gender pay gap by at least 5 % annually with the aim of eliminating the gender pay gap by 2020. i have done work with the welsh agency chwarae teg on the gender pay gap in wales. their research shows the extent of the problem and how important it is that we keep up pressure on governments to help achieve equal pay.
in writing. − i believe that in order for the eu to meet its renewable energy targets, microgeneration needs to be a vital element in the future of energy generation. this is why i have voted in favour of the microgeneration resolution. i acknowledge how microgeneration has contributed to the increase in the overall share of renewables in the eu energy mix. whilst i appreciate that a successful incorporation of microgeneration in the internal european energy market will be reliant on factors such as technical development of microgeneration units, the deployment of a smart energy infrastructure, and various schemes which incentivise microgeneration at all levels, i am confident that microgeneration will help bring us closer to our renewable energy targets.
mr president, i am in favour of this resolution. although the principle of equal pay for equal work has been enshrined as a fundamental eu principle for more than 50 years, it is clear that not enough has been done to address the issue fully. the fact of the gender pay gap for ireland sitting at 14% and that for the whole of the eu at 16% demonstrates that much remains to be done to ensure that women have access to well-paid quality employment. as the impact of the crisis and the current so-called austerity measures continues to be felt by vulnerable and disadvantaged groups such as women, and with the effects of the pay gap extending to retirement age, it is more important than ever that we close this discriminatory gap. it would be remiss of me not to mention a delegation that was here yesterday from the freedom drivers, who attended this parliament and asked that their needs be met and their voice be heard – a voice of independent people seeking independent living.
mr president, as we have just heard from a couple of speakers, the treaty of rome contains one sentence on this issue: ‘men and women shall be given equal pay for equal work’. any normal person would think that that was a clear, comprehensible statement of objective but, in a series of controversial judgments, the european court of justice has expanded the plain meaning of those words well beyond what the treaties say. first it ruled ‘pay’ to mean pension rights, holiday entitlements and so on, and then it said that equal work means work of equivalent value. how is an employer supposed to assess that? is it just a question of whether you look as though you are working as hard as the other person? do you need to factor in how many suitably qualified applicants there were for the post? it even got to the stage, in a case in the uk, where a same-sex couple were saying that they were discriminated against because they were not married and one partner was not getting the same free rail pass that they would get if they were married. whatever else that was, it was not being discriminated against on grounds of sex. there is a basic unfairness here which is that you do not know what you have signed up to if the law can be changed. you know what? if i want to work for you and you want to employ me ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. − abstain. i abstained from voting in this case as, although my party do not want or see the need for any more eu legislation in this field, it is quite simply impossible to vote against a report that deals with the issue of gender-based pay equality.
in writing. − i welcomed this important resolution. equal pay for work of equal value is a basic principle in the eu, however, the gender pay gap across the eu has remained very high. this resolution requests the commission to support member states to reduce the gender pay gap at least 5 % annually, with the aim of eliminating the gender pay gap by 2020. i have done work with welsh agency chwarae teg on the gender pay gap in wales. their research shows the extent of the problem and how important it is that we keep up pressure on governments to help achieve equal pay.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution for equal pay in the work place because i believe in gender equality. i have been concerned about the widening of the pay gap in some member states, and am of the opinion that the principle of equal pay for equal work is fundamental to achieving full gender quality. it worries me that the gender pay gap is currently at 16.2 %, and i am aware that unequal pay rates have been a persistent problem throughout the eu. i hope that this resolution will play a part in closing the gap and securing equal pay for all.
in writing. − the uk delegation recognises that the gender pay gap continues to widen; it is illegal, unfair to women and is a direct cause of poverty in older women. we fully support the principle that men and women should be paid equally for equal work. we recognise that a number of member states have legislation in place and we urge those member states to better enforce their own legislative mechanisms to deal with wage discrimination. where member states do not have national legislation in place, we urge them to implement measures to combat the gender pay gap. we do not support interference from the eu in matters which need to be addressed by member states and we do not want to see matters of employment law being controlled by europe. this is such a complex issue that it is best dealt with by employment experts in each member state. for this reason the british conservatives have voted against this resolution.
mr president, governments and regulatory authorities are constantly playing catch-up with new technology. nobody cares these days what the regulations are on steamboats or analogue telephones. if we simply turn off the regulatory tap, eventually the regulation withers away. that is why, in this chamber, we find ourselves constantly rushing to regulate whatever new activity appears on our horizons – in this case the internet. why do we not just experimentally try assuming a presumption of innocence, assuming that things will flourish on their own without needing to be directed from brussels? maybe – just maybe – unregulated and illegal are not synonymous.
mr president, it is important, as many people will agree, that we tackle some of these issues of cybersecurity. we see that companies are often under attack from hackers and others who want to deny service to their websites, and there are other issues of a similar kind. but how do we tackle these problems? yes, we can come up with wonderful resolutions and motions for resolutions about cybersecurity, but actually we have to make sure that two things happen. at the very highest level there must be international cooperation so that we deal with the countries hosting many of these hackers who attack websites elsewhere. and at the other end, we must ensure that there is more awareness among the public. i was told a story by a government minister in the uk who had a seminar on cybersecurity and who noticed when they put the screen up that it said their anti-virus software was out of date and needed to be updated. that was a very simple step they could have taken to tackle this problem.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as i do not believe that the eu should be allowed to regulate or control the internet. both i and my party are completely against the concept of any eu cyberstrategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which reiterates that the eu’s cyber-security policy should provide a secure and reliable digital environment. i want my constituents in wales to feel safe when using the internet and that their freedoms and fundamental rights are protected.
in writing. − as always, the opportunity is being seized to extend eu competence into a new area. we have fundamental difficulty with the whole concept of european defence policy (csdp) and do not, for example, believe that the euʼs high representative should have a role in relation to cybersecurity and defence. this is a matter for national governments, cooperating where appropriate through organisations such as nato. therefore, i abstained overall on this report.
mr president, it is quite right that we are trying to encourage digital growth, but sometimes we have to be a little bit humble about this. is the way to digital growth through motions, resolutions and committee meetings about growth? that does not produce one iota of growth. the best way is to get out of the way and let the innovators innovate and develop the solutions. then there is the question of how we intervene. one of my colleagues earlier talked about the cap on roaming charges. what does the cap on roaming charges actually do? if you look at it in detail, it stops a more profitable part of a business subsidising the less profitable parts. we see that mobile operators are struggling – some of them may be making operational profits but have not paid back their investment and they are struggling to invest in new technology – and then we are the first to complain when we do not get a decent 3g or 4g signal. let us make sure that we are encouraging innovation and not holding it back.
mr president, however many resolutions we pass about digital growth and employment we are not creating any growth or any employment. we may be creating the odd job for a eurocrat or an interpreter or a conference organiser or a waiter but, as bastiat teaches us with his theory of unseen costs, we are draining more money out of the private sector to pay even for those jobs. the amazing thing is that this growth happens anyway, like some plantation thrusting its way through the broken stones of an old jungle temple, and the best thing we can do is to stay out of the way. if there is one slogan that i would like to have every mep put up in their office and to be constantly reminded of, it is what thomas edison said as he was engaged in his exciting inventions: ‘there ain’t no rules around here: we are trying to accomplish something.’
in writing. − against. in the same way as we do not need or want the eu to control the internet, we do not need or want it to regulate our telecoms either.
in writing. − achieving the potential of the digital economy in the eu would have a positive effect on society and on the economy. it would also lead to increased freedom of speech and transparency. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. if we were to further explore and develop the digital economy in wales, we could create more jobs and growth.
mr president, i strongly condemn the use of chemical weapons, whoever was responsible. without doubt, however, bombs will not bring peace to syria. an attack will only serve to inflame the whole region. the eu should reinstate the arms embargo in syria. the syrians have a right to peace, democracy and human rights. the only way to stop conflict is through peace talks and a peace process. making peace is more difficult and more important than fighting a war. i know that to be a fact. international leaders need to work to secure a ceasefire and bring all sides in this civil war to the table. meaningful dialogue involving all sections of the syrian people must be established to address all of the grave issues currently facing the citizens of syria.
mr president, i long for the moral certainty that some of the other speakers have just expressed. i wish i could, as for example mr murphy did, dismiss everyone who disagrees as a warmonger. i think the issue is finely balanced and i think people on both sides of it have decent motives. it is not enough to say that those who favour intervention are demented neo-cons. they are, by and large, sincere men and women who often know the area well and are concerned with a catastrophe which is almost beyond our capacity to measure. there have been 1.8 million refugees in a quarter of the time that the iraq war has displaced 2.2 million. there have been 100 000 un-registered deaths. our minds are not designed to contemplate suffering on that scale, but no-one has yet persuaded me that it falls to the western world to intervene. if, as barack obama said the other day, 98% of the world’s governments reject poison gas, then why should it fall exclusively to the united states and a handful of allies to enforce that prohibition? there are other countries in the region for whom this is a more immediate problem. let them take the lead.
in writing. − against. my party is completely against the idea of engaging in any military action in syria. this is largely because we do not believe that firing cruise missiles into the region will make the situation any more stable – nor will it help the suffering people of syria. furthermore, we think it is high time that we learnt from past mistakes – that is, afghanistan – and kept out of situations in which our involvement could, in fact, worsen the problem.
mr president, you and i have in common that we have spent part of our lives under a military regime. i do not presume to speak for you, but it taught me that there is no such thing as a good coup. there are only bad coups and worse coups. in 1952 army officers seized power in egypt and they have wielded it ever since and like all military juntas they run affairs around their own convenience, suiting themselves for want of any opposition. the western world generally – i do not lay any particular blame at the door of the european union here – the western world made a fatal mistake in the hours when the coup was threatened but had not yet been delivered by failing to intervene then, giving a green light to the repression and tyranny that has happened since. if we were trying to create islamic fundamentalism, this is exactly how we would go about it: by vindicating the most paranoid world view of the jihadists. it is a shame that countries rooted in democracy have behaved in this fashion. egypt deserves better.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case as my party simply does not want any uk involvement in the situation in egypt.
in writing. − i voted against this report as my party is against the very concept of the formation of an eu navy and eu coastguard service in order to reinforce eu ambitions to be a ‘global playerʼ.
in writing. − i voted against this report which states that the eu should extend its military influence and take on a global military/naval role. i do not believe that this is an acceptable role for the eu. i do believe, however, that the eu could play a vital new role on the international level through the establishment of a peace corps. this would not be military but made up of teachers, psychiatrists, nurses and people from other professions who would work with local communities in areas of tension to keep peace and prevent escalation into conflict. i have proposed this in wales to mark the centenary of the start of the first world war. i believe that looking at the means of preventing future conflict would be an appropriate way of remembering that tragedy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the current uk position is to support the development of an eu maritime security strategy, but that it should be complementary with nato activity avoiding duplication. this report makes a call for the eu to make the best of existing capabilities and is supportive of pooling and sharing initiatives in the maritime field.
in writing. − this is yet another attempt to seek further integration of defence and security matters across the eu. i submitted 19 amendments in committee, none were accepted. the report contains some useful analysis as to the importance of global maritime flows and the dangers posed by proliferation of illegal maritime non-state actors. however, it also argues that a ‘european maritime security strategyʼ is needed to ensure an ‘integrated and comprehensive approachʼ to dealing with threats and suggests the financial crisis should be seen as an ‘opportunityʼ for greater integration of maritime policy. it calls for the creation of ‘a truly european coastguard functionʼ. we do not support eu-flagged armadas, particularly when these merely call on the same naval assets already engaged on actions in nato tasks. the ecr group therefore voted against this report.
mr president, one of the reasons that the people of ireland were so opposed to the lisbon treaty was the fear of its impact on irish neutrality and the further drive towards the militarisation of the european union. even then, we did not think that a report like this would be adopted in the european parliament. sabre-rattling, war-mongering and jingoism like this are destined to make people across the european union even more critical of the eu and to see it as an increasingly militarised and aggressive body. i believe if people are given a vote there will be huge resistance to the sort of changes to the treaty proposed and outlined in this report.
mr president, acting in times of humanitarian and global crisis as a united eu while simultaneously respecting the sovereign rights of individual member states is no easy task. by acting alongside nato, the csdp has proved to be broadly helpful, when it involves civilian missions, in meeting such a delicate balance and allowing the eu to play a successful role in, for example, afghanistan and the balkans. it would therefore be foolish to make any attempt to extend the scope of the csdp which would see it duplicate the role of nato. it is with this in mind that i find it necessary to vote against the recommendations of the report, particularly with regard to its proposal on establishing an eu military operational headquarters within the eeas. furthermore, the attack it made on individual member states for cutting their military budgets at a time of austerity is totally unjustified. any eu defence policy must be based on the principle of intergovernmental cooperation over the communautaire method which, sadly, this report has little respect for.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i refute the need for greater cooperation between eu states with regards to military matters. i am firmly against the concept of an eu army or an eu air force as well.
in writing. − this report is an assessment of the euʼs ‘military capabilitiesʼ in the context of the common security and defence policy (csdp), with a series of recommendations about future developments. the csdp is a device to take forward political integration, disguised for the unwary as something apparently useful and uncontentious. i submitted 18 amendments at committee level, none of which were accepted. rather than recognising that nato remains the primary military alliance, the report proposes a series of measures aimed at establishing new eu military structures. it advocates increased defence integration at eu level to bolster the eu position as a global actor and ‘security providerʼ through increased common funding. the report specifically crosses an important british government red line concerning institutional duplication and growth – notably, the establishment of a permanent eu operational headquarters, which the report proposes should be set up ‘if necessary through permanent structured cooperationʼ. it also wants to establish a permanent csdp ‘warehouse’, duplicating the nato support agency, to provide support and equipment for eu missions. in fact, everything military that it describes or proposes is already being done by nato. the ecr group therefore voted against this report.
mr president, belarus’s continued disregard for democratic government and the rule of law is of great concern to all of us. the elections last september in belarus were clearly not free or fair. nevertheless, the release of siarhei kavalenka is of course welcome, yet we must not allow this lone political gesture by lukashenko to detract from the wider picture, which is one of political prisoners on a large scale. in calling for an end to restrictions on democratic opposition, judicial reforms, greater press freedom and an end to the discrimination of minorities, this report is valuable in highlighting some of the fundamental flaws in the regime. as we look to the future, it can be hoped that belarus will look to its near baltic neighbours such as lithuania, and the successful transition that these countries have made to democracy following the collapse of the soviet union. for those that doubt the possibility of such a future, we need only look to poland and the democratic principles that it now proudly promotes as a member of the eu.
in writing. − against. in light of the fact that there is no hard evidence of this alleged russian pressure on the eu’s most eastern countries, we do not feel the need to engage in this matter.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the pressure that russia is putting on the countries of the eastern partnership. ukraine, georgia and moldova have the prospect of respectively signing and initialling association agreements with the european union. these agreements will lead to new, enriched associations with stronger political relations. the position of russia has gained prominence in recent weeks and plaid cymru, the party of wales, is keen to build on peaceful agreements.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i believe that security strategy should be controlled by each of the individual member states, and not centrally by the eu. this report shows as well that the eu wishes to control all the aspects of uk national internal security and extend eu powers on criminal matters.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it is my party’s, and indeed my own view, that the uk should be the only one to have any say when it comes to uk labour law. all eu labour-related ‘strategiesʼ and legislation so far have just proved to complicate the situation in the labour market.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it is opening what is most likely a modern day pandora’s box of eu legislation on business.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case as, while it is impossible to vote against a move to assist and protect these vulnerable minors, i believe that policy in this area should be down to the individual member states and not controlled centrally by the eu.
in writing. − i supported this report which is a matter of basic human rights and the rights of the child. my group requested this report and although not as strong as it could have been, it is a welcome initiative. i have the support of groups in wales for a childrenʼs champion in the eu who would oversee this kind of work.
in writing. − the ecr group supports the principle of this report which focuses on the importance of the child’s best interests. it is imperative that unaccompanied minors are treated first and foremost as children, and that they are dealt with according to the stipulations of child protection laws and are not submitted to common asylum procedure directed at adults. as the report states, children, and especially young girls, are the most vulnerable members of society and are practically always, in immigration scenarios, the victims of trafficking, and often abuse and sexual exploitation. it is necessary that all member states adopt this approach which puts the child’s best interests at its heart, for too often children are treated like criminals by border authorities when what they need is protection and sanctuary. this report promotes and encourages member states to implement measures at national level to safeguard children which i believe will result in the best outcome.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agreed with the position on how unaccompanied minors arriving on eu territory should be treated, the rights they should enjoy and the relevant procedures that should be in place. i agree that the commission should develop strategic guidelines on national best practices addressing the processes of dealing with minors.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as i do not see the measures outlined as likely to produce any real value in terms of economic growth or employment opportunities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which stresses that there is a need for better tools to follow up the dynamic cultural and creative sector impact on the whole economic landscape in the longer term. the reports highlights the need to promote new cultural activities and to look at the cultural sector and the role it plays in the economy. this is of particular relevance to wales where we have a thriving cultural and creative sector and which is home to many great artists and performers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it addresses the major challenges stemming from the digital shift and globalisation. this is an important strategy document which complements the commission proposal for the creative europe programme.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors contribute significantly to the european economy and i am very proud of the ukʼs contribution in this area where the creative industries alone account for 7.3 % of uk gdp. this report called for the creation of a favourable business environment for smes within the cultural and creative sector and for their administrative and regulatory burdens to be reduced. this report is timely and essential given the importance of the cultural and creative sectors, especially at a time of economic crisis and there are many good aspects to this report. for example, i do agree with the parts stressing the importance of local and regional development within this area. however, we in the ecr simply cannot support the suggestion of making further progress towards tax harmonisation. nor can we support the idea of promoting a common european identity and this does not belong in a report on the cultural and creative sectors. i also do not want to keep the cultural and audiovisual sectors outside the scope of the negotiations for the eu-us trade agreements. for these reasons i had to vote against the report.
in writing. − i have voted for the proposal ‘promoting cultural and creative sectors for growth and jobs in the eu’ because i am aware of the potential the sector holds for promoting closer cooperation between varying policy areas, such as education, regional development and economic affairs. i support the report in its need to change the public view on the cultural and creative sectors, and to assert their importance within the economic field. i also agree that these sectors often act as a catalyst for innovation, and believe that renewed investment into the culture and creative sectors will be returned to the economy as a whole. i am impressed by how resilient both sectors have been during the recession, with each showing above-average growth.
author. − mr president, there can be no doubt that what happened in bahrain back in 2011 was of serious concern. the police sometimes acted disproportionately, innocent protestors were indeed killed and it goes without saying that those responsible for such crimes must be brought to justice. nevertheless, there seems to be little new that has happened in that country since our last urgency resolution in january of this year that could justify another resolution on the same issue. i have to say that i share the bahraini government’s concerns that this parliament could be seen as singling out bahrain for reproach when in fact other countries in the region have a far worse human rights record and have not actually been censured to nearly the same extent. saudi arabia, in particular, has made little or no progress towards democracy since the arab spring, but very rarely comes under criticism or scrutiny. bahrain should be congratulated on the progress of the king’s national dialogue, the reforms of the penal code and the legal procedures, and above all the establishment in july of a police ombudsman. we also can all agree that political prisoners should all be released, that citizens should have the right to protest peacefully and exercise their freedom of speech and thought and that a free press is a cornerstone of a democratic society. the bahrainis know all this for themselves and are showing encouraging signs of improving their society in this regard. the establishment of the arab human rights court in bahrain is further evidence that the bahrainis, rather than the europeans, are the ones who hold the key to progress and development in their small island state. i encourage all colleagues to engage with this country constructively and in a spirit of dialogue. if we merely appear to be wagging our fingers from the sidelines, we risk alienating ourselves from this debate and ultimately helping no one.
mr president, bahrain is a longstanding friend and ally; it occupies a key geostrategic position in the gulf. it is the main operating port for the united states fifth fleet; it is a close ally of saudi arabia. these factors all make it a target for those who wish to destabilise the regime and the west’s relationships. for many years shia and sunni lived happily and tolerantly together. now we see their differences being exploited. of course we support the right of freedom of expression and of peaceful protests. of course those who have legitimate grievances must be heard sympathetically, and in this regard the king’s initiatives regarding a national dialogue, human rights institutions and inquiries into police and prison conduct are very much welcome. but in addition to legitimate demonstrations there have been terrorist attacks and in the coming days there will be further provocation on the streets and the media will undoubtedly be seeking out stories of abuse and brutality. in the interests of bahrain we counsel restraint in the face of such action and i trust that those opposed to the present political arrangements will condemn terrorism and violence and participate constructively in a dialogue.
on behalf of the alde group. – one thousand years ago the king of england was from denmark. and although he reigned for some two decades, most – young people anyway – would remember him from the story of his trying to demonstrate the limitations of a king’s power by trying to curb the incoming sea. and i have often thought how much more successful he might have been in demonstrating the point if the tide had been going out rather than coming in. and sometimes i think of our danish commissioner and think that she might have had a more satisfactory period in office if the tide had been with her rather than against her. because it seems to me that the high-water mark for dealing with climate change in this parliament, and in the european union, was towards the end of 2007, and that since then we have been trying to cling on to our ambitions and finding it more and more difficult to see them implemented. of course we have the background of the financial crisis and of growing unemployment, concern about jobs going overseas, and above all the lack of a global agreement – the sense of ‘why should we go it alone if the world is not playing fair with us?’. and now we come to the point where the committee on the environment, of all bodies, cannot even agree on a report on this issue. and for what reason? as mr seeber said: because some ppe members, or all ppe members, did not like the 25 % target. but we had already agreed on the 25 % target when we dealt with the low-carbon roadmap and it has often been said by the commissioner that we are probably on target to reach 25 % anyway, without additional measures. so we seem to have got ourselves locked into a position where there is conflict for no good reason. environmentalists look to the committee on industry and perhaps the epp and treat them with suspicion, and too many members of the committee on industry look at the committee on the environment in the same way – and the common ground just disappears. however, i hear many members of the epp, many members of the committee on industry, saying that we have to tackle the problem of global warming. we have to deal with co2 emissions and there has got to be common ground here. i want to see businesses succeed. we all want to see european businesses succeed. there have got to be more opportunities for ensuring that business can succeed and can go down the route of a low-carbon future and can survive in an increasingly competitive world. but we have got to bridge these gaps. so for my part mr president, i am making an undertaking here; i am going to work more closely with my epp colleagues and my committee on industry colleagues. i am going to listen more closely to their arguments and i am going to try and frame the way in which i respond in accord with their views. but together i hope we can put business and the environment together and go forward in a united fashion. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – we voted in this house by a majority of some 400 or so for the low-carbon roadmap, and the low-carbon roadmap has as a milestone the achievement of a 25% goal by 2020. the point is we are on track to achieve that, so the differences between us are really minor.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i just want to explain to the house the four reasons why i decided to object to the comitology measure and why my group is now supporting the resolution. the first reason is timing. parliament received this measure from the commission on 19 july, just after we went into recess. the deadline for objecting was 3 september, one day after we came back from recess. i hope you and your services will look into how this can happen, that we can be asked to look at these things when parliament is not sitting. we need to change that. the commission reassures me that it was not trying to pull a fast one, but it really cannot go on like this, not giving colleagues proper time to scrutinise measures. secondly, we are just beginning a new co-decision procedure looking at the whole issue of meat hygiene inspections after the horsemeat scandal. we have started that process, we have a rapporteur, we have a hearing next monday in our committee. why, then, is the commission changing something fundamental so late now? people are suspicious, and i think they are suspicious because we have seen attempts over recent years to deregulate meat inspection. thirdly, we are not alone. we have support on this from the federation of european vets, the european consumer organisation beuc, the eurogroup for animal welfare and the european association of meat inspectors. they believe that this should be looked at properly with a full public debate, and not be rushed through this week. fourthly, i do not understand why the commission chose only one of the measures. yes, it is true that the european food safety authority did say that one of the measures, visual-only inspections, could help, but only as a package of measures and not as a standalone measure. they said the head should be removed from the pig and that then you can move to a visual-only inspection. but the commission chose only one of these measures. so, mr president, i think it is extremely important that parliament objects tomorrow, and that we have a proper debate and take this issue as part of the co-decision procedure.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, since the horsemeat scandal, the integrity of the food chain has enjoyed prominence and scrutiny as at no other time in this past decade. now that the spotlight has been cast on meat in slaughterhouses, we must guarantee that our response is based on the overwhelming scientific evidence available to us and ensure that we are not unduly influenced by misrepresentative public perception. i, like efsa and those involved in the industry, want to see the modernisation of pigmeat inspections, with focus on a scientific, risk-based approach which reduces the risk of contamination. it is in all of our interests to find a solution that meets each of these requirements. both the animal experts and the science experts have forged a unified position in support of the proposed commission changes. while i am conscious that these agencies’ opinions should not be taken in isolation, when farmers on the european food standards agency, national food standards agencies and national veterinary experts speak with one voice, i find it very difficult to take a contrary position. in my lifetime i have had plenty of experience with the pigmeat ante-mortem and post-mortem situation. my own experience on a farm lends credence to the move towards visual inspection, as proposed by the commission. the proposal does not advocate less inspection. visual inspection does not equate to less thorough inspection, nor does it preclude the more invasive forms of inspection where they are deemed necessary. in fact, visual inspection could ultimately free up veterinary competence to focus on inspection of live herds and where the risk needs to be controlled. visual inspections by experts who are very well versed in the food safety warning signs should not be considered a light-touch regulation. this is smart regulation in practice.
the unemployment rate in germany is 5.2 %. the unemployment rate in spain is 26.2 %. the ‘one size fits all’ economic policy has failed. we need a change, and we need to look to the future. ‘the eu should consider whether it can give something back to national governments.’ these are not my words. they are the words of angela merkel. and the british prime minister david cameron agrees. i believe the repatriation of powers to national governments will help make the european union competitive again. the commission says that the eu cannot change, because the commission does not want to change. its president has said the fundamental discussion about the competences of the eu is doomed to failure. i say to him: repatriation of powers to national governments is the only way to save the eu from failure. less bureaucracy, more flexibility. less eu, more member states. that is the way forward and it is any other way that is doomed to failure.
mr president, between 1958 and 1962 tens of thousands of women gave birth to babies with severe birth defects, including missing limbs. the cause of this was the drug thalidomide, prescribed to pregnant women. in the uk there are about 467 surviving victims. as they age, their health problems are made worse by their disabilities. some compensation was paid by the distillers company ltd, the uk distributors, but the german inventor of the drug, grünenthal, has never properly accepted its responsibilities or paid compensation to the british victims. the compensation the victims did receive is now inadequate to meet the rising costs of their care. the survivors are an extraordinary group of brave, resilient and independent people. all they want is for grünenthal to face up to its responsibilities and to arrive at a fair settlement. please register your support for the thalidomide victims’ campaign by going to their website http://www.showyourhand.org" . this gross injustice has gone on for 50 years too long.
mr president, mps must not be above the law, especially if they are implicated in crimes of violence. however, the arrest of six greek mps, including their party leader, at the behest of the government, only days after violent protests against their party by left-wing demonstrators following the horrific stabbing of a left-wing activist, must give us cause for concern we must think of what pastor martin niemöller might have said: ‘first they came for golden dawn, and i did not speak out because it was not my party.’ these were the first arrests of mps in greece since the fall of the infamous colonels’ dictatorship in 1974. whatever we might think of that party, no evidence has been cited of a connection between the alleged murderer and the mps and it appears that the arrests took place to assuage the anger of violent demonstrators. i am sure that, if the hungarian government had imprisoned opposition mps instead of just tinkering with the constitution, we would have held non-stop debates. democratic rights are not to be granted or withheld at the whim of government. we must always be sceptical when governments imprison oppositions.
mr president, as negotiations continue, i would urge the commission to reverse its position on the participation of israeli businesses and institutions in the west bank within the horizon 2020 programme. the new guidelines announced in july would threaten israel’s overall participation in the whole programme. this would directly impact on eu consumers. it would leave israel bereft of investment in areas where it has historically led the way. medical research, pharmaceuticals and horticulture are only a few of the sectors that would be damaged. it would also damage the employment prospects for local israeli and palestinian communities. the new guidelines could also hinder the ongoing israeli-palestinian peace negotiations, acting as a backward step for diplomacy. israel invests approximately 4.5% of its gdp in research and development, the highest ratio of any country in the world, and consequently i believe that these current plans would disadvantage both israel and the eu alike.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am delighted to present this own-initiative report from the committee on budgets to the house for its consideration and thank my colleagues on the committee for allowing me to do so. i will review its purpose, where it has got to, and what still is to be done to create this interinstitutional system for long-term trends. first, its purpose: with a rapid transition under way in the global system today, the aim of espace is to enable the eu institutions to have the means whereby they can take into account long-term trends when taking current decisions. effective eu policy-making will depend more and more on the timely identification of those long-term trends that have a bearing on the challenges and choices facing the union in an increasingly complex and interdependent world. but we should not have the illusion that the purpose of espace is to predict what is going to happen in the future. history is littered with examples of those who thought they knew how events were going to unfold, only to find the opposite occurred: witness the executive of decca who in 1962 ended their contract with the beatles, thinking there was no future for groups in pop. and indeed, over the past decade events have clearly shown how difficult it is to predict the future, such as the collapse of the financial markets in the autumn of 2008, or the extraordinary dynamism of the it industry with the founding of facebook and google. thus the emphasis must be, as the report recommends, on developing an effective capacity for the provision of independent, high-quality, interinstitutional analyses and advice on key trends confronting policy makers within the eu system on a regular basis. so where has the project got to so far? it is based on two budget lines. in the first, the pilot project produced a reflective document on ‘global trends 2030 – citizens in an interconnected and polycentric world’. under the aegis of the euiss in paris, this interesting exercise drew attention, in particular, to three major themes. first, the evolving empowerment of the individual, empowered by technological change; second, the burgeoning rise of the global middle class against a backdrop of growing resource scarcity and persistent poverty; and last, the emergence of a multipolar world where non-state actors play a critical role with growing governance gaps. so now, in the second stage, more attention is being paid to economic, social and governance trends in the hope of identifying those trends which could have the greatest significance for the european union over the next five years. as we turn into 2014, let us hope we can have a broad and imaginative debate on some of the emerging ideas. a working paper will be available shortly putting together some of the key ideas drawn from all these sources, before culminating in a document to be finalised towards the middle of next year, for the incoming leaders of the eu institutions to consider. over the next few months, alongside this foresight report, there will be the elaboration of an administrative cooperation interinstitutional agreement, with each partner agreeing to undertake and maintain and participate on a continuing basis in the agreement. furthermore, in the same process, a global repository website is also being built, to give access to a wide-ranging library of material relating to global trends. once in place, such a system will be well-placed to provide specific input into decision-making, for example to the budgetary authority in the run-up to the negotiation of a first 2020 multiannual financial framework, or together with the futurium which is looking at global trends. so, in conclusion, thanks to the work of many within the institutions who have already been involved in the ongoing work of espace, the project is on course to achieve its purpose and its design. if successful, it will be able to provide incisive and forward-looking documents, which will help prepare eu decisions in an open manner, having access to the best information available. in the past, many have spoken of the survival of the fittest. in tomorrow’s world, it is those who are best informed who are most likely to be the survivors.
rapporteur. − madam president, colleagues, the day has come, we are having this debate and we are going to vote at 12 o’clock. it has been a long slog to get here, with thousands of amendments, but i sincerely hope today that this parliament will do the right thing. before going into details about the vote, maybe we should just pause for one minute and remember what this law is really about. the key aim is to stop young people from being recruited as the next generation of smokers. we know it is children, not adults, who start smoking, and despite the downward trend in the number of adults smoking across our countries, in the last few years the world health organisation reports worrying upward trends in a number of member states amongst children. maybe products such as these have something to do with it: nice pink lipstick products aimed at recruiting young girls as smokers, products called ‘allure’ with flowers on them, chocolate filter papers. we have got to stop the tobacco companies using gimmicky products like these to recruit young people and we have to make sure that the warnings are highly visible on these packages. you can hardly see them on these tiny little packages. for me, there are four key issues we are going to vote on today. the size of the warnings: in canada, large pictorial warnings were brought in just over 10 years ago and the number of young smokers has halved to 12 %, with 29 % in the eu. so please, do not vote to reduce the size of warnings to 50 % – that is a key demand of the tobacco industry and in accepting it we would put ourselves behind a number of eu countries today. the council has voted for 65 % because they do not want to go backwards on public health, and nor should we this morning. as regards the position of the warnings: it does matter where the warnings are. the warnings should be at the top of the packet, visible at the point of display and not hidden at the bottom by the displays. if we put them at the bottom, the displays will all hide them. please do not listen to those siren voices calling for you to move the warnings to the bottom. on flavourings, the commissioner said when he introduced this law to parliament that tobacco should look like tobacco, smell like tobacco and taste like tobacco and i totally agree. our own scientific committee on health has said that menthol cigarettes act as a local anaesthetic to reduce coughing and actually allow smokers to inhale more deeply. it is a growing market in europe. the american food and drugs administration finds that tobacco companies are aware of the appeal of menthol cigarettes for younger novice smokers because they are easier to smoke. let us get rid of the flavouring. slim cigarettes targeting mainly young women: if you do not believe me, read what the tobacco companies themselves say about slim cigarettes. they are designed to be smaller, slimmer, less masculine, aimed at the female under-30 market. those to me are the four main things. and then there is the question of e-cigarettes. we have amendments here, some to have no regulation, and then amendments to have some form of regulation, and we are going to debate what kind of regulation. i hope we can have a sensible calm debate on this issue and not some of the misrepresentations we have seen in recent weeks. finally, time is running out in this parliament. the council has already agreed a common approach. the group leaders all asked commissioner borg to put this legislation on the table. in fact it was a condition of his hearing. he did that in december last year. it would, to me, be totally unacceptable if now this parliament held up this legislation. how do we explain that to our voters? colleagues, please support this legislation and please let us start negotiations. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, this has been a difficult directive. it is important for the health of smokers and non-smokers alike. i am pleased that in this chamber the objective seems to be very similar: we are all interested in the health of our citizens. the route we take differs. one of the key elements in this directive is electronic cigarettes. like so many elements in this directive, e-cigarettes are controversial. their main role is as a tool to give up smoking, and we need to recognise the importance of the different means people use to give up smoking. as an ex-smoker i know only too well that it is not an easy habit to give up. nevertheless, this directive is about protecting people’s health. i understand why people do not want to see electronic cigarettes go unregulated. the amendment put forward by my group will allow electronic cigarettes to remain in use as a tool for quitting smoking. the amendment will better control electronic cigarettes in the same way as cigarettes are controlled, by including health warnings, by not allowing the sale of products to under-18s and by ensuring a list of ingredients is submitted to the competent authorities. while people continue to smoke we must support those who wish to give up. by over-regulating products, such as e-cigarettes, we would make it more difficult, not easy, for people to quit. this is why, if amendment 170 on e-cigarettes is not adopted, my group will be voting against, giving the rapporteur a first reading mandate.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, although the large tobacco companies can lay claim to numerous victories over the course of this directive – namely the many delays we have experienced – we are finally here, and i wish to thank linda mcavan for getting us ready to vote on crucial legislation which could help protect generations of young people. it is true that the aims of the tobacco industry can never be reconciled with those of public health. the measures proposed by this directive would reduce, after five years, the number of people smoking by 2.4 million and result in a net increase of 2 243 jobs created, due to increased disposable income spent on other goods and services. this would have a positive impact on that 20 % of most deprived areas in eu constituencies where the rate of smoking-related deaths is double that of the least deprived areas. without doubt, the amount of lobbying by tobacco companies has reached unprecedented levels. here are some of the goodies that were sent to me – but i will say that i will vote to save lives and to deliver for those constituents who are anxious to see new tobacco control measures implemented. in europe each year, the total deaths caused by road accidents, drugs, murders, suicide and accidents at work do not come to a fifth of those caused by tobacco: 700 000 of our constituents die every year from tobacco-related diseases. that is 700 000 people – mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, grandparents and children. some of them are known to us – as we have heard in the chamber today – and yet there are meps who still find it difficult to vote in favour of public health measures to combat these avoidable and unnecessary deaths. this legislation is not reinventing the wheel: the measures proposed are necessary and effective. 75 % picture and text health warnings, banning characterising flavours like chocolate, bubble gum and vanilla, and a ban on slims, will prevent such attractive gimmicks being used by the tobacco industry to get children and young people addicted to their deadly product.
madam president, i am afraid that the commission and the rapporteur are wrong to call for e-cigarettes to be treated as medicinal products. i just think they are missing the big picture, which is that these are a potential game changer in the fight against tobacco-related disease. they can save millions of lives. i have had hundreds of letters from constituents, former smokers, who have said ‘we have tried everything else, we have tried nicotine patches and the like. they have not worked. these things have made a huge difference to my life’. of course, e-cigarettes have got to be properly regulated. advertising should be controlled. our amendment introduces these controls. it would be quite wrong to take measures that might in some way restrict the availability of e-cigarettes, or increase their price. let us just remember that 700 000 people die of tobacco-related disease in europe each year. the goal is to reduce that number, by millions. we should not make it any harder to buy e-cigarettes than it is to buy conventional tobacco cigarettes.
madam president, on a point of order, i understand your difficulties of time management, but the point of the blue card procedure is to encourage debate between members here during the course of the debate. if you actually exclude the people who have come here to speak, how can the purpose of the blue card procedure be met?
madam president, usually when i get up and criticise eu directives i can see a logic to them. it is usually a twisted and bad logic, but there is still a logic. there are a number of areas in this report which i believe actually defy logic. firstly, the banning of tens. to me it makes no sense. you are not going to stop people smoking by banning 10 cigarettes. what you are going to do is encourage them to buy 20. so in effect what we are doing is, we are criticising places like mcdonalds for supersizing their product but we are encouraging the tobacco industry to do the same. and all it will do is make poor people poorer. as regards the menthol cigarettes issue, a million people in the uk smoke menthol cigarettes. they are not going to stop overnight if you ban them, they will go to conventional cigarettes and you will increase the size of the black market. finally, e-cigarettes: e-cigarettes are proving, according to latest research, to be the most effective way of stopping people from smoking. therefore, why on earth would you make them medicinal? why would you make it harder to stop people smoking? i would ask my colleagues please to vote against this. it is ill-thought out, it is counterproductive and it is contradictory.
madam president, the purpose of this legislation is to try and prevent a new generation of smokers. introducing 75 % health warnings and getting rid of flavourings which make smoking more attractive to children is the minimum we should do. i hope that governments across the eu will also introduce standardised packaging as soon as possible and i am disappointed that the uk government has scrapped plans to do so. why is this so important? it is important because one in two regular smokers are killed by tobacco and we have a responsibility to do whatever we can to stop the carnage. i have heard many people argue about the negative impact on revenue from tobacco, but what about the cost to our health services? more importantly, what about the human cost? we all know there has been a huge lobby by the tobacco industry. unfortunately, much of their lobbying seems to have had an effect. this legislation has been constantly delayed and still, now, there are more attempts to weaken and delay it. i hope the british conservatives will follow their government’s line and support many of the measures proposed, including on e-cigarettes, and if they fail to support their government, they should at least listen to the voices of concerned constituents, doctors, cancer researchers, heart charities, respiratory societies and the world health organisation, all calling on us to protect the next generation from death, disease and disability caused by tobacco.
madam president, we have the chance today to vote for tobacco control measures such as large health warnings and a ban on characterising flavours, which will help make smoking less appealing to young people so that fewer take up the habit. we also need to think of existing smokers who want to quit their habit or reduce the harm involved, which is where electronic cigarettes come in. many smokers have switched to e-cigarettes from tobacco – often not expecting to quit tobacco in the process – including the taxi driver who brought me to parliament this morning. there are two choices before us today on e-cigarettes. the first is to regulate them as medicines, which will increase costs, reduce product variety and in many eu countries make them less widely available than tobacco! this would not be a positive move for public health. the other choice is amendment 170, which would keep e-cigarettes as consumer products but tighten up the regulation to include marketing restrictions, strict labelling requirements and an under-18 sales ban. fellow meps, we must legislate today in the interests of citizens, not tobacco companies.
mr president, i have no doubt at all that electronic cigarettes could set millions of non-smokers on the path to nicotine addiction, and should therefore be regulated as medicinal products. it is clear that less than a decade since their first appearance they have already become a multibillion dollar industry, with the major tobacco giants snapping up the key e-cigarette companies and with glamorous movie stars appearing in advertisements, former playboy models now advertising cigarettes, and huge full-page advertisements. this is why norway and brazil have banned e-cigarettes altogether. this is why we should be clear that these e-cigarettes are not a pathway to giving up smoking. they are a gateway to taking up smoking.
rapporteur − mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office for his support this morning and throughout the last few months. i do hope we will start good negotiations and have a quick resolution. i also wish to thank commissioner borg for his very frank debate here this morning and for putting the legislation on the table and enabling us to – hopefully – complete it before the end of this parliamentary term. and i would like to thank all colleagues who have shown their support this morning from across the house. that shows this is a balanced proposal. i hear people saying it is not flexible, but we took on board many comments from many people, so the outcome can be supported across parliament. i want to say an extra special ‘thank you’ to the shadow rapporteurs, some of whom are not here now, but who really have worked very hard, and to their staff and the staff of the groups. particular mention should be made of kiri hanks, my researcher who has worked extremely hard, and emilia romano from the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and ulrike schoner from the socialist group. people often forget how many hours go into preparing a voting list, and all the staff and all colleagues have worked very hard. finally, we have heard many figures this morning and many different points have been made, but europe is not ahead on tobacco policy. we are lagging behind the united states. we are lagging behind many latin american countries. this morning it is time to play catch-up. in my country, 570 children start smoking every day. mr krahmer asked: ‘where is the evidence about warnings?’ i have sent him some. he has disappeared now but i hope he has read it in the past hour. there is lots of evidence. the independent evidence from doctors is very strong, while the rest comes from the tobacco industry. please believe doctors – people who have public health at heart. the commissioner said, and other colleagues have said: ‘let us choose life this morning’. let us put the interests of citizens and future generations of citizens first.
in writing. – my party has made it very clear from the outset that we oppose all aspects of this directive. no-one can dispute that smoking is a major health issue that affects the whole of europe. indeed we have all seen the statistics – that over 700 000 people a year in europe die of smoking. however shocking this figure is, though, it is ultimately these people’s right to smoke – and the eu certainly does not have the right to try and stop them. ironically, the measures outlined in the directive are flawed on so many levels that they are unlikely to stop people smoking anyway. banning smalls packs will simply make people buy more cigarettes. banning menthol and other flavoured cigarettes will simply increase the cigarette black market. demanding that large health warnings be put on cigarette packs will make counterfeiting easier, fuelling the black market yet further. once again, the eu has failed to see the wood for the trees here and, as a result, this directive is not only misinformed and unfounded but entirely unfit for purpose.
mr president, this directive might sound dull, but it boasts that it is the jewel in the crown of eu environmental policy. now if any phrase should send a shiver down everyone’s spine, it’s that. it is massive. it rules 200 types of projects – everything from building bridges to new motorways, to rearing pigs and rearing poultry – and, strangely, the same document also admits that it gives rise to a large number of disputes. well, that is not surprising because who among us really enjoys red tape when it gets in the way of our own lives? now it is the turn of shale gas. everything must be regulated and nothing must escape. well, in the north-west of england, we are sitting on possibly the biggest deposits of shale in the whole of europe and all we want is to be left alone to move on and frack, to produce shale, as what it will do is give us cheap energy and a boom in jobs.
rapporteur. − mr president, we have now had our vote and i would like to propose to the house to postpone the vote on the draft legislative resolution and refer the matter back to committee, so that we can open negotiations with the council on the basis of the vote which has just taken place. i would like to do that with a roll-call vote.
in writing. − against. i voted against the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and ukraine for two reasons: firstly, because i believe that the british government alone should have the right to conclude international agreements which affect the uk and secondly, because in my opinion the gnss is a huge waste of money which is not proving to be operational and to the benefit of uk citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal that will foster closer ties with the ukraine in the field of global navigation satellite technology. the people of wales will certainly benefit from ukraineʼs expertise in this field that will see collaboration in areas such as standardisation, certification, radio spectrum, industrial cooperation and trade and market development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe in this agreement, which allows for the extension of egnos to ukraine and for collaboration in areas such as standardisation, certification, industrial cooperation and trade and market development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of european parliament consent to an ec-ukraine cooperation agreement on a civic global navigation satellite system. the european union has already strengthened its resources for satellite navigation via the galileo/egnos 3 programmes and we can continue to do so by welcoming such international cooperation with countries that have technological expertise in this field.
in writing. − against. although i feel very sorry for those people facing huge changes in their life through unemployment, i am unable to support this. the it industry still holds a lot of potential for the future. in my view, the mobilisation of this fund for redundant it personnel in italy is not justifiable during this time of economic instability when there are more pressing matters to be dealt with. i would rather see the money spent on a thorough evaluation of the fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal. the egf was set up to aid workers who have been made redundant as a direct result of the financial crisis. we have all been affected by the financial crisis. in my constituency, wales, many jobs have been lost. it is important that the eu provides its citizens with support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this application because i believe the european globalisation fund should be used to help workers who suffer as a result of changes in world trade patterns, such as the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − at a time of continuing economic difficulty, smart, targeted and responsible spending of the eu budget has become more vital than ever. we must be able to assure our constituents that investments being made at eu level represent effective use of taxpayers’ money. i do not believe that this fund represents value for our taxpayers and therefore i voted against this report today.
in writing. − against. although i feel very sorry for anyone facing the huge challenges that unemployment causes, i am unable to support this. in my view now is not the right time to mobilise this fund for this purpose, due to the huge economic constraints which our british constituents have had to face. in fact, we would rather the money be spent on a thorough evaluation of the fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal. the egf was set up to aid workers who have been made redundant as a direct result of the financial crisis. we have all been affected by the financial crisis. in my constituency, wales, many jobs have been lost. it is important that the eu provides its citizens with support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this application, because the european globalisation fund should be used to provide assistance to workers suffering as a result of changes in world trade patterns, such as changes in geographical patterns of consumption.
in writing. − in a year in which we have succeeded in negotiating an unprecedented reduction in the eu’s long-term budget, reflecting the need for reduced spending and better spending throughout the eu, we cannot continue to support initiatives that do not represent value for taxpayer’s money. i oppose this fund on these grounds and therefore i voted against this report today.
mr president, i do not believe that any members of this house could possibly be against the gomes report’s noble aims of reducing organised crime, corruption and money laundering internationally and their impact on human rights. the way in which this is achieved, however, is less clear. social corporate responsibility is of paramount importance, and we must encourage greater transparency internationally, especially in areas where there is the potential for human rights abuses; and indirect financial support to illegitimate and corrupt regimes is clearly undesirable. but the approach set out in this report calls on the commission to promote international, wide-ranging, binding legislation that goes well beyond what i would deem to be within its mandate. there is even reference to awarding the un special powers of criminal investigation. the principles and aims of the report are good ones, which i share. however, the prescriptive means recommended to achieve them means that i must on this occasion abstain, along with my colleagues.
mr president, one thing we all agree on is that it is obvious there should be less corruption. we all want to tackle corruption and we all want to tackle the human rights issues. however, we have to be a bit careful if we are lecturing other countries on these issues. let us look closer to home. we know that the accounts of the european union have not been signed off for 18 years. we know that there is corruption when it comes to the spending of eu money. so let us be careful before we lecture other countries. i remember once giving a lecture to some mba students about corruption – we were talking about certain practices in nigeria, something called ‘dash’, i.e. payments that grease the wheels in nigeria – and i was asking ‘is this an example of corruption?’ my nigerian students turned to me and said, ‘how dare you call that corruption, when you have something called corporate hospitality? we see that as corruption.’ so we have to be very careful about the perception of ‘us’ before we lecture others on issues such as corruption and confidence in companies doing business.
mr president, perhaps the worst thing that can happen to a country is the curse of natural resources. a former venezuelan energy minister once wrote a book called the devil’s excrement in which he advanced the theory that an oil strike will wreck and vitiate a developing democracy. you cannot help noticing that the countries in south america where the destruction of parliamentary government has gone furthest, namely venezuela, ecuador and bolivia, are the three big energy exporters. for every exception – for every norway or alberta – you have a dozen irans, nigerias and russias, because you have broken the link between taxation and revenue and you have given governments an easy option which is to interpose themselves between the resources and the foreign investors so that they are positioned in such a way as to receive the bribes. the best thing we can do for developing countries is to encourage a multiplicity of supply, encourage the rule of law, arbitrated by an independent magistracy, and encourage competition. that will do more for prosperity than any amount of western aid.
in writing. − abstain – while we recognise this as a very important issue, we are shocked by the alleged involvement of european public banks, which are eu institutions funded by the member states. however, i have abstained from voting because, as a party, we do not wish to see the continued introduction of vast amounts of new eu legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which highlights the linkage between corruption and human rights. the eu has the potential to be an immense force for good, but to do this it must lead by example and address corruption, money laundering and organised crime within its borders, so that it can press third countries to do the same. the people of wales will benefit from this positive step towards reducing corruption across the globe.
in writing. − the gomes report deals with important issues and it is right that this house sends a strong message. corruption often has a disproportionate effect on many of the poorest citizens in the world and the eu must do its utmost to challenge such practices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission to adequately address problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within eu borders in order to be a credible leader in the fight against corruption in third countries. it also calls for whistleblowers to be better represented under the eu understanding of human rights
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe corruption in the public and private sectors is an issue that needs to be tackled.
in writing. − this report tackles some very important issues: making recommendations on combating corruption in the public and private sectors, tackling its impact on human rights in third countries and considering how the eu can lead the fight against organised crime and money laundering. the issue of organised crime, corruption and money laundering is one that we have also considered in my own committee, the economic and monetary affairs committee, so i fully appreciate the importance of the issues this report is tackling and i do support its aims. however i am afraid that on this occasion i cannot support the methods outlined within the report as i feel that they are overly prescriptive and as a result i voted to abstain.
mr president, can i start by paying tribute to our colleague, james elles, who for a long time has pursued this agenda of making sure that we look beyond our navel to the outside world and at the changes going on there. we should look in particular at the long-term trends he has identified, such as the emerging powers, demography changes, changes in growing population and the role of technology and the way in which it changes our society. but if you look deeper at some of the trends that espas and others have analysed, you will see that we come to one conclusion: we are getting ourselves into too much debt, we are continuing to spend more money than we have coming in, and governments and populations have to adapt. in the longer term that means harnessing the powers of technology to make sure that we have a smaller state which is really there as a safety net rather than as the universal system it has become: no longer a trampoline to help those who have fallen off the edge of society, but a trap. let us make sure that we follow the lessons of these trends.
mr president, i wrote an article a couple of months ago in which i made a jocular and throw-away remark to the effect that every continent in the world is now growing economically, except antarctica and europe. and then i received an email from a spanish friend with a list of statistics that showed that actually antarctica is doing fine: the cruise ships are returning and the antarctican economy is recovering in line with the rest of the world. so we alone, in this part of the world, are trapped in a customs union that is dwindling. and why is it dwindling? i think deep down we all know: excessive taxation, excessive regulation, excessive government – we are doing all the things that are undoing the nature of our rise and our success over the past centuries. we have it in our gift to change and to integrate our economies with the rest of the world, to drop this dream of fortress europe and protectionism and trying to preserve a separate model. and if we do not take that opportunity, we are the authors of our own fate, and like tolkien’s eldar we will diminish and go into the west.
in writing. − against. although this may be essential within the perspective of national governments, when the eu plays a huge role it would represent a loss of sovereignty and an ability to say what should happen to our own economy and hence, we are against this policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it welcomes the progress made on the project so far and outlines in detail how the research departments of various eu institutions and bodies can work closer together on this issue. i think it is important that the parliament has a long view of budgetary trends, as well as the short term.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the research departments of various eu institutions and bodies working closely together to identify long-term trends in major policy issues.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote in favour of this report, prepared by my conservative colleague, which outlines plans for how the eu institutions can keep up with changing trends in major global policy areas. if we are to ensure that the eu delivers effective policy making in the future, then it is important that we support and promote the cooperative analysis and monitoring of global trends within the eu institutions that this report recommends.
in writing. − against. it appears that this report’s aim is to implement some improvements to the brussels i regulation in order to ensure that national legislation is not undermined in the internal market. however, this process requires more eu involvement, which is a stance that my party opposes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this positive addition to the brussels i regulation adopted last december. the regulation provided clarity on jurisdictional rules in certain areas of the law but omitted employment law. this report will take us closer towards having clarity for the people of wales and all eu citizens and will ensure legal consistency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the rapporteur listened to the concerns of trade unions and considered the legal arguments and eu case law on this issue. the report is comprehensive and calls on the commission to review whether brussels i adequately takes into account the specificities of employment cases – particularly those involving international transport workers
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i support the proposals for changes to the brussels i jurisdictional rule for employment cases in public international law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report today which considers the eu jurisdiction rules applicable to employment. whilst i supported the report on this occasion, i do feel that any future revision in this area should be based on identified legal uncertainties or deficiencies.
in writing. − abstain. i have abstained on this matter because, as a party, we oppose the eu imposing international guidelines on working conditions of seafarers. we believe this should be up to each nationally elected government to decide. in particular, the flag state responsibilities for the enforcement of a council directive lie with each respective government and not the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report that ensures that there are now clear rules in place to ensure that all workers on maritime labour, of which there are a significant number in wales, get those rights that have been granted to them under the iloʼs maritime labour convention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe the incorporation of council directive 2009/13/ec into eu law will strengthen compliance and lead to stronger enforcement of protections for seafarers.
in writing. − i voted against this report in the chamber today. subsidiarity has to be the rule when considering such proposals and on this occasion i was unable to support a report which appears to go beyond what it was intended to do, when it should have focused only on enforcing those provisions of the mlc that are within the eu competence.
mr president, the issue of the tobacco products directive (tpd) has inspired much lobbying in my mailbag. this new eu legislation will do more to combat an activity which, sadly, contributes yearly to 700 000 cancer, cardiovascular and respiratory-caused deaths in europe. many tpd aspects regarding the size of health warnings, types of packaging and descriptors are indeed positive. however, the attempts to make e-cigarettes a medicinal product are counterproductive in my view. e-cigarettes may not be totally harmless and require more research, of course, but not one death can be attributed to them. on the contrary, hundreds of londoners have insisted to me that e-cigarettes are actually improving their lives, and fear that new restrictions making them into a pharmaceutical product would push them back towards smoking real cigarettes. e-cigarettes may not be perfect, but they are preferable to thousands more dying needlessly in britain and across the european union. therefore the fact that amendment 170, which was proposed by my group and others, was carried is something that i can take a great deal of delight in.
mr president, very rarely do we get the opportunity in this parliament to discuss something which really gets into the very fundamental reasons for why we are here and what the purpose of regulation and legislation is, and this one will certainly make people think because i, like everyone else, want to stop people smoking. i am an ex-smoker. i suspect many people in this place are and there is nothing better than an ex-smoker in terms of proselytising about giving up, but i do think that we need to be sensible about it and we need to help people, not force them. so, personally, i have two objectives here. the first is to stop young people from starting smoking and the second is to help people give up. it is on those particular axes that i was making decisions on voting here and most particularly on e-cigarettes, which is where i think the rapporteur went horribly wrong, because there is no evidence that e-cigarettes start young people smoking, so it does not help me on that one, and there is plenty of evidence that it helps people to give up. so i am delighted that we were able, on amendment 117, to make sure that e-cigarettes were not medicalised.
in writing. − against. my party has made it clear from the very beginning that we oppose all aspects of this directive. ironically, the measures outlined in the directive are flawed on so many levels that they are unlikely to stop people smoking anyway. for instance, banning smalls packs will simply make people buy more cigarettes; banning menthol and other flavoured cigarettes will simply increase the cigarette black market; and demanding that large health warnings be put on cigarette packs will make counterfeiting easier, fuelling the black market yet further. in this sense, we believe that this directive is misinformed and unfit for purpose.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. it is important that we have proper rules and regulations regarding tobacco products to ensure that they are made as unattractive as possible, especially to children and young people. research by the british heart foundation has shown that only 24 % of young people were put off by current cigarette packaging. this figure is far too low and more must be done to ensure that young people do not start smoking. i am grateful to all the constituents who contacted me on this issue.
in writing. − in recent weeks the tobacco industry has been extremely busy in the corridors of brussels and strasbourg and some of their lobbying appears to have been successful. nonetheless, parliament has adopted some important measures today. i welcome the fact that member states will be able to introduce tougher labelling laws than those provided for at eu level; this is line with the scottish government’s tobacco strategy.
in writing. − today i voted in favour of the tobacco products directive. i believe it is a well-balanced report and it is imperative that we address the health problems caused by tobacco usage. i voted for the amendment which allows e-cigarettes to be sold alongside regular tobacco products as i believe these could be important tools in the fight against tobacco-related diseases. regulating them as medicines would have been counter-productive to this aim. i also voted for 65% warning signs on packing in order to discourage people from smoking.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe we should have bigger warnings on cigarette packaging and plain packaging. i also think we should not have products in the eu which target younger smokers and women. i was disappointed that e-cigarettes were not voted to be classed as a medicinal product, but i still supported the report as a whole.
in writing. − the vote on the tobacco products directive encompassed many divergent issues, including public health, consumer choice and the impact on manufacturing jobs. while i am pleased that the version of the tobacco products directive that was adopted was a strong one, i believe that the inclusion of reasonable concessions will protect local manufacturing jobs without impinging further on public health. i spent a great deal of time scrutinising this proposed legislation and ultimately came to the conclusion that there were too many unknown implications for manufacturing jobs throughout the supply chain, particularly those in my own constituency at the gallahers/jti factory in ballymena. furthermore, standardised packaging could make it easier for the illicit trade to sell counterfeit cigarettes, a particularly acute problem in my constituency. in a climate of austerity and high unemployment, i believe we should be striving to protect local jobs and i voted in favour of that position. through correspondence with my constituents, i am well aware that thousands of families depend on this industry, and i believe that without the adopted adjustments, the european commission’s proposals would have jeopardised manufacturing jobs in northern ireland.
in writing. − whilst i can welcome the aim of this report to reduce the number of young people attracted to smoking, i have become concerned by this report’s attempts to classify e-cigarettes as medicinal products. i don’t believe that e-cigarettes encourage young people to take up smoking; instead i am convinced that e-cigarettes actually have enormous potential to improve public health. in fact i, like many of my colleagues, have been contacted by a number of constituents who have confirmed that e-cigarettes have done exactly this for them, by helping them as long-term heavy smokers to stop smoking. i am pleased that the conservative-backed amendment concerning e-cigarettes has been successful, which benefits the users of e-cigarettes and their manufacturers. most manufacturers of e-cigarettes are smes, many are located in wales. trialogue negotiations with the council now need to reflect this more proportionate approach for our smes.
in writing. − smoking kills over 700 000 people a year in the eu and is the leading cause of preventable deaths. in addition, the majority of smokers start before the age of 18 and we are increasingly seeing tobacco companies directly targeting women and young people with attractive packaging and flavours to make cigarettes more palatable. i believe 75 % health warnings on cigarette packets should be the minimum and i supported an amendment calling for full standardised packaging, so i was disappointed that meps voted in favour of 65 % health warnings. i was also disappointed that, with support from the tories, meps voted against a ban on slim cigarettes and to delay a ban on menthols for eight years. however, i am pleased that other measures, such as a ban on flavoured cigarettes, were adopted. on e-cigarettes, i recognise their potential to help people quit smoking. however, we must ensure that they are safe and do not become a gateway to smoking for young people, which is why i voted in favour of regulating e-cigarettes as medicines, in the same way that we regulate other nicotine replacement therapies.
in writing. − as a party we voted to support the motion as the vote prevents the protocol, and thus the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a fishing agreement between the eu and mauritania for two reasons. in terms of both human rights and sustainable development, two things that are very important to me and my constituents in wales, this protocol is an immensely positive development. the proposal now contains a suspension clause if mauritania fails to respect human rights and there is a limitation of fishing at sustainable levels.
in writing. − i am delighted that the plenary sitting of parliament has overturned the fisheries committee’s original decision. the protocol with mauritania was negotiated between the eu and an independent, sovereign country. the mauritanians have the absolute right to negotiate such a protocol as they see fit and i reject suggestions in this house that we seek to renegotiate the deal.
in writing. − i supported the granting of parliamentary consent to this protocol because after a revision of the conditions by the joint committee, it appears to satisfy both mauritanian fisherman and the european fishing industry, as well as respecting the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this protocol to the eu-mauritania fpa. fisheries partnership agreements (fpa) are of great value to the eu, but in each case we must also ensure that they maintain the sustainable fisheries policies we have outlined in the reform of the common fisheries policy and make a positive contribution to the development of the non-eu country concerned.
mr president, it sometimes concerns me that the committee on women’s rights focuses too much on issues which are not the responsibility of the eu but rather of national governments within member states, and my delegation frequently votes to reject reports which intrude into member states’ sovereignty. but on this occasion i am pleased that it is the european parliament which is putting this sensitive and difficult issue on the agenda. this is an important and urgent issue. currently in the uk there are two doctors whose registration is under review because they have offered to abort baby girls on the grounds that these foetuses are female. there is disagreement at a legal level as to whether these doctors have committed a crime or not, but i am not interested in that principle: the fact remains that misogyny in our society still exists at such a deep psychological level that women feel the need to come forward for abortions under these circumstances. it is my view that a society which allows the abortion of female foetuses on the grounds that the foetus is female is a society which does not value the contribution of women and girls. i place the issue of equality between the sexes in high regard and it is a political priority for my government.
mr president, i fundamentally believe in the right to life of the unborn child and i therefore object to sex selection practices and coercive abortion. these awful practices have led to gender imbalance in countries across the world, especially in asia, where studies have found that sex-selective abortion can lead to increases in human trafficking and violence against women. my colleague has referred to the case in the united kingdom of the doctors who are currently under investigation for offering abortion based on sex selection. just today the director of public prosecutions in my country has actually said that it is legal to offer abortion based on these grounds. this is an appalling abuse of fundamental rights. i would also fully support calls for stricter regulation in national legislation to tackle the horrors of abortion being used for financial gain. finally, i would also support those in the medical profession who find themselves coerced into performing abortions, which is against their conscience.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it criticises the horrific practice of gendercide and supports the protection of women who may be coerced into it as well as promoting gender equality. however, i abstained on the amendments as i felt they were not consistent with the spirit of the report and went beyond its remit. it is also essential that we protect the freedom of member states to legislate on sensitive issues appropriately and in accordance with the national sentiment, and neither eu legislation nor eu assistance should attempt to interfere on this matter.
in writing. − abstain. as much as we are against gendercide we do not support the further extension of new eu legislation and thus we have decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. − i have long championed womenʼs rights both at home in wales and across the globe. this report calls on governments to protect womenʼs rights, to specifically categorise femicide or gendercide as a crime and to allow women the right to take decisions individually and independently. welsh women enjoy most of these rights and have access to education and healthcare but they also recognise that discriminatory and often dangerous practices must stop.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it raises the very important issue of the deliberate abortion of pregnancies where the child is suspected of being female. there are also reports of widespread abandonment of young female babies. this is unacceptable and the eu has a responsibility to investigate how prevalent this practice may be, both in the eu and in third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report today and i was pleased to see the women’s rights and gender equality committee drawing attention to what is a very serious and important issue. i hope that by putting together this report and bringing the issue of gendercide before members of the european parliament for the first time today, the rapporteur has drawn due attention to what is a global problem, affecting women all over the world, and assisted efforts to combat gendercide worldwide.
in writing. − as the spokesman for women’s rights within the british conservative delegation and as the shadow on this particular report, i was keen to emphasise the importance of supporting this report to the british delegation. we do not have annual figures as to how many female foetuses are aborted simply on the grounds that they female; the practice is fairly clandestine, but we know that it happens within europe and further afield. it is the duty of policymakers to speak out against sex-selective abortions. what do we say about how the value of girls and women in our society when we turn a blind eye to these sex-discriminatory abortions? this report has put the issue firmly on the political agenda, and i hope that, as a consequence, national governments will address this issue. i voted against paragraphs 4 and 34 part 1 calling for eu legislation in this area; i feel eu legislation would be unnecessary and ineffective, as national governments must lead on this. overall i was delighted to be able to support this report.
mr president, this report raises the question of the way in which regional authorities across the eu deal with the difficulties of implementing the union’s cohesion policy. i voted against the report because these difficulties are increasing as governments around the eu struggle to implement austerity policies. i acknowledge the report’s good intentions but i am very uncomfortable with many of the details as they relate to financial probity and prudence. it seems foolish to even consider the feasibility of excluding member states’ expenditure on co-financing of eu cohesion projects from the fiscal disciplines on debt and deficits. those measures were agreed by this parliament for very good reasons, and you do not cure the patient by withdrawing the medicine too soon. i understand that many regions, including one that i represent, are struggling, but that does not mean to say we should let them take more control or be less disciplined with their finances. i understand the wish for growth but this is not the way to achieve it. more fiscal federalism is not the answer either. this report raises significant political concerns, particularly for those member states outside the eurozone.
in writing. − against. as a party we believe that this report aims to give more money to the failing economies in the euro area and some of the newest member states. in this regard we are unprepared to be part of such failed investments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i recognise the budgetary constraints on regional and local authorities and support flexibility in the co-financing of programmes and policies to allow for sustainable investment at regional and local level.
in writing. − at a time in which determined efforts are being made back home in my own member state to bring our deficit down and to generate growth and stability in our uk economy, it is vital that i am able to assure my constituents that the same smart and considered investment of taxpayers’ money is being ensured across the european union by its authorities. i am concerned that this report calls for the european commission to investigate how it could be feasible for public spending by member states on co-financing eu cohesion projects to be excluded from the stability and growth pact’s financial disciplines on debts and deficits. member states must uphold agreements made as a part of this stability and growth pact if we are to ensure better spending and because i am concerned by some of these recommendations made in this report today i have voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which looks at how regional and local authorities are affected by budgetary constraints in the eu’s structural funds expenditure. in addition to cutbacks at member state level, regional and local administrations are also facing difficult financial decisions. it is vitally important that regions, such as my constituency of wales, continue to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the next round of structural funds, and i therefore i support this report’s proposal to ensure the greatest possible flexibility for the national co-financing of eu expenditure. i also welcome the analysis that will be undertaken looking into what impact the current crisis has had on the capacity of regional and local authorities to pursue growth and jobs objectives.
in writing. − against. as a party, we do endorse the current approaches adopted by the pacific region. however, we are against the overall common fisheries policy which we believe to be unfair, and which is already severely hampering the livelihoods of many welsh fishermen.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i recognise the need for eu fishing policies to be coordinated and support the maximising of benefits both for the pacific states and for eu countries.
in writing. − the reform of the common fisheries policy to ensure sustainable fishing, that preserves our marine environments and tackles illegal and unregulated fishing, if implemented correctly, is one of the success stories of this parliament. in adopting a fisheries strategy for the pacific region, we can further complement the hard work the eu is already doing to develop sustainable fisheries policies, and support what is a vital industry for a number of pacific states. i therefore voted in favour of this report calling upon the eu to adopt this comprehensive fisheries strategy for the pacific region.
mr president, as the member of the european parliament representing gibraltar, i have read this report with great interest. gibraltarian territorial waters are in the mediterranean. they have been a constant target of incursions by spanish fishermen for many years. despite much effort from the gibraltar government, these difficulties have not been resolved. in fact the spanish government has now withdrawn its participation from established three-way talks with the gibraltar and uk governments on this and many other subjects. i therefore welcome this report and its call for the peaceful settlement of disputes concerning maritime areas and the delimitation of maritime boundaries in conformity with the rights and obligations of member states. i call on all eu member states to respect the rights of all eu citizens – including the citizens of gibraltar – in this area.
in writing. − against. we are against this proposition as it means more eu interference, further demands on eu taxpayers and endorses eu cooperation agreements. we oppose all of these, along with the euʼs common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report that calls for enhanced cooperation and further efforts to manage resources sustainably, with an emphasis on peaceful dispute settlement. only by working together can we successfully overcome the challenge of sustainable fishing and further encourage the european fishing industry. for wales and the eu this is the way forward.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the establishment of maritime zones in order to enable fisheries conservation and sustainable fisheries resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which seeks agreement at local, regional, eu and international level to regulate access to resources, to protect stocks and to improve governance of marine areas under existing eu and international conventions (in order to improve relations with non-eu states in the affected areas). increased competition for marine resources and stock, when combined with the overfishing that has already proved so detrimental in eu waters, places an intolerable strain on our natural marine environments. whilst recently agreed reforms to european fisheries policy will go a long way towards encouraging more sustainable fishing within the eu, wherever possible we must continue to support efforts to resolve tensions that arise in maritime areas in the wake of increased competition and to ensure that our activities in these areas respect the need to preserve and protect marine habitats.
madam president, well, here we go again. squirm time for the european bureaucrats. they must really hate this, having to answer and put forward their figures because, seriously, they do not like scrutiny and they do not like transparency. this whole report lacks scrutiny, and it lacks transparency in the withholding of documents relating to significant expenditure – namely the purchase of the residence palace in brussels, as previously mentioned – and in the refusal of the council to address questions raised by a democratically-elected parliament. a democratically elected parliament! her majesty’s government has drawn attention in the last few days to a cosy agreement in place since the 1970s, that two institutions would not scrutinise each other’s spending. why are you so afraid of democratic scrutiny? you control europe, you spend taxpayers’ money, your accounts for the whole of this institution have not been audited for 18 years and you do not care about democracy. i told my constituents in the west midlands, the industrial heartland of the united kingdom about this. i am not sure that they actually believed me. incidentally, we british have a name for opaque and cosy arrangements such as these. we call them spanish practices. i am very pleased that the rapporteur advocates voting against discharge of the 2011 budget. of course, any agreement for scrutiny of another institution should be mutual. i would welcome scrutiny of this institution’s spending by the council and i think the people of great britain would also welcome it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the european research area (era) is an exciting concept which has the potential to facilitate an upsurge in innovation across the european union. it is clear that strong national frameworks are required to ensure that the key era priorities are met. inflexible eu-wide targets would, however, risk undermining the valuable diversity of national research systems and hinder the exciting work that is already under way across europe. in northern ireland, we are moving towards effective implementation of the european research area by 2014. speaking from the experience of queen’s university in belfast and the university of ulster, there is a strong appetite among academic staff for optimum circulation, access and transfer of knowledge across borders. involvement within inter-eu research programmes such as the marie curie initial training network, the industry-academia partnerships and pathways has proved its worth under framework 7, as the commissioner knows from her time there. i wish her well and thank her for all the good hard work she is doing in this area.
madam president, the latest progress report on era shows that there is still work to be done. but some countries are significantly more advanced than others, and whilst member states who are lagging behind do need to step up their efforts, the decision on exactly how they do that needs to be left to the member states themselves. the possibility of an era framework directive has been discussed but i am concerned that a one-size-fits-all legislation may not be the solution, as governments, universities, research centres and industry need autonomy to achieve the aims of era without jeopardising national and global research priorities. commissioner, your own impact assessment has highlighted additional administrative and compliance costs which could be incurred. we have worked so hard on horizon 2020 to cut red tape and to reduce costs and the administrative burden in order to encourage organisations to participate in research. so let us be really careful that we do not put back those burdens and those costs through another directive.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am happy to support this oral question. we need to put a stop to violence against women and girls. i am pleased the british government has signed the istanbul convention and has expressed its intention to ratify. david cameron’s government has placed women’s rights high on the political agenda. the british prime minister is committed to addressing the question of violence against women. in fact, in its latest review of discrimination against women, the united nations praised the united kingdom for a number of positive developments. since coming into power in 2010, the conservative-led government has adopted a new equality strategy. we have coordinated the g8’s adoption of the declaration on preventing sexual violence in conflict. we have ratified the conventions on disabilities, child protection and human trafficking. and the uk government intends to criminalise forced marriage. the ecr group wants member states to make policies which will help eradicate violence against women. however, it is no secret that we are opposed to further legislation at eu level. we believe instead that individual member states have a responsibility for their own legal systems. it is their responsibility to initiate and implement policy and laws to tackle violence against women and girls. what we must do in this house is to share best practice and encourage each other to support women and eradicate violence.
mr president, patrizia toia quite rightly talks about the scandal of only two member states having actually ratified the convention. we have heard in this house reasons why we should go ahead, but all i hear from some member states is that the language does not suit them. this is an excuse to do nothing, rather than a reason to do something. continuing violence is happening now against women simply because they are women – often because they are viewed as objects to be owned. we have to stand up and ask whether, if that were happening to us, our daughters, our sisters, it would be right. if not, then it cannot be right for others. let us not forget that violence also targets women because they are lesbian, bisexual or transgender. it is scandalous that in many countries in the eu for example, they still require transgender women to undergo forced sterilisation, simply to be who they are. this is unacceptable and, as i said, we need to stand up against any opposition on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. there can be no such principles when we are dealing with human rights, and women’s rights are human rights.
mr president, as has been said, 26 member states have individual bilateral investment agreements in force with china, and it would be a better use of everyone’s time if the trade commissioner dropped the attempt to negotiate an eu-china investment agreement and simply left it to the outstanding two, latvia and ireland, to negotiate their own agreement. but there is another vital point here. switzerland has a trade agreement with china, new zealand has a trade agreement with china, and in particular iceland has a trade agreement with china. the fact is that a sovereign nation does not need to be part of a large trade bloc in order to sign trade agreements. demonstrably, it is just not true. iceland, as most of us know, has now suspended its application for eu membership. in my view, it is a very wise decision. in the context just of trade, were iceland to join the eu, it would then be obliged to abandon the trade agreement it already has with china. and so, colleagues, the message for the uk is very clear.
mr president, investment, in its simplest form, is the deferral of present consumption in order to facilitate production that will enable greater enrichment in the future. if the people deferring present consumption are the ones to benefit from the future enrichment, all is well and good. however, if the deferred consumption is used to facilitate more efficient production and greater enrichment elsewhere, there has been a mismatch. that sums up the investment relationship between european countries and china. europe invests nearly seven times as much in china as china does in europe. europe is deferring current consumption to make china a more efficient producer and – of course – competitor. most of the arguments about trade with and investment in and from china have concentrated on the level playing field argument: a removal of tariff barriers, getting china to improve working conditions, paying attention to environmental concerns and ending counterfeiting. no attention has been paid to the question of whether we should be helping a potentially enormous emerging economy to compete with the developed world for scarce resources, compete with our industries and, possibly, direct its newfound industrial wealth into even greater military capability. the west insists on being globalist – to its own detriment – when dealing with china which, whatever its lip service to marxist rhetoric, is in fact an economic nationalist state.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the first stand-alone investment agreement negotiation since fdi became an exclusive competence of the union. the bilateral trade relations of our two economies are rapidly developing into a global economic marriage, but the fdi of both blocs has scope for further improvement. it represents, currently, less than 3% of outflows. we can boost investment flows by responding to the needs of investors. for example, we need liberalisation of market access and of the regulatory environment through improved access to markets, reduction of investment barriers, legal certainties and investor protection. i welcome the commissioner’s intention to use the agreement to press our policies of sustainable development and csr. these are important, but i urge the commission to focus in its negotiations on the following: on the one hand on asking the chinese to help eu investors through simplified licensing, minimising limits to foreign ownership, providing guarantees to improving intellectual and industrial property rights and geographic indications, and moving beyond the joint ventures towards greater openness, reflected in other legal regulations. i know this may not appeal to the rather exotic dartmouth-brons school of economics, but it will certainly help the rest of us. the eu can help china too by scrapping export subsidies and reviewing technical obstacles. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card question. – sir graham watson, do you consider that fdi, or foreign direct investment, becoming an exclusive competence of the european union under the lisbon treaty is in the national interest of the united kingdom?
blue-card answer. – mr president, yes i do consider it very much to be in the interests of the united kingdom, because we will negotiate far better agreements if we are negotiating a part of a block of 500 million consumers than we will ever achieve if we are negotiating on our own. if the noble lord wishes to see the benefits of chinese investment he need look no further than the chinese investment in the constituency which he and i both represent, the firm of sunseeker in poole. i am sure he will agree that that is extremely helpful to jobs and wealth in our constituency.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and say that i welcome the potential investment agreement. of course, issues such as tariff and non-tariff obstacles, market access (both ways, as other speakers have said), intellectual property rights, which is an issue of great concern to european companies, environmental protection issues and corporate social responsibility issues – which is something we do not mention often enough – all have to be dealt with. but we should also recognise the benefits to the european union, to individual member states, to regions and to citizens which an investment agreement could bring. for example, i come from wales, with a population of three million people. we have a cooperation agreement with chongqing province, with 30 million people. so far that cooperation agreement has mainly been about education links and cultural links, but hopefully in the future these will develop into trade and investment links as well. so i believe that this proposed eu-china investment agreement has huge potential and we should grasp it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as chairman of the ep-taiwan friendship group i have for years now called upon the eu to respond more fully to taiwan’s financial dynamism and innovation with the ultimate prize of a much-coveted economic cooperation agreement that would prove of huge benefit to both parties. taiwan has generated one of the economic miracles of the twentieth century, emerging from a long-forgotten colonial backwater into an economic and technological powerhouse that today produces many of the goods that keep europe running. there seems to be very little that is beyond the scope of taiwanese manufacturing, with whisky and designer suits being the latest products to enter the marketplace and compete with longstanding eu producers. improving trade relations with taiwan makes perfect sense for them and for us. the eu is already taiwan’s largest source of foreign direct investment and taiwan is the eu’s seventh biggest trading partner in asia, a huge achievement considering the competition from that continent and the relatively small taiwanese population. indeed, while the population of the people’s republic of china is roughly 58 times that of taiwan, its level of trade with the eu is only 11 times greater. certainly the prc is never far from discussions with taiwan, and president ma’s government must be congratulated for its dialogue and ecfa agreement with beijing that has done so much in recent years to ease tensions and boost trade across the straits. taiwan has also demonstrated though this year’s free trade agreement with new zealand that it can conclude deals even with one china policy countries that do not officially recognise it. the eu therefore cannot allow the prospects of free and fair trade with the vibrant and unique taiwanese democracy to be held hostage to intolerable diplomatic pressure from the prc. as the european parliament supports taiwan’s efforts to participate meaningfully in international organisations such as the who and icao, we must also celebrate its contribution to world trade because it is a valuable economic partner that upholds democracy and the rule of law. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, thank you very much for that question but you obviously were not listening to my speech, because i made the specific point that new zealand, which adheres to the one china policy and does not recognise taiwan as an independent state, has concluded a free trade agreement with the territory. taiwan belongs to the world trade organisation: most of the states within it do not recognise taiwan as an independent country. we live in a world of constructive ambiguity towards taiwan’s status. it is a democracy, it shares our values, and whether you recognise it or not – and some thirty-odd countries in the world do – does not matter. you can still trade with it and have better relations.
madam president, our last debate was about the union’s first self-standing investment agreement since this competence was granted under the lisbon treaty. while the moment is historic, we should not allow the first self-standing agreement to stand alone. there is much scope for investment in taiwan, right next to mainland china. the island is well known to european business and we have traded with it for decades. this is for the very good reason that this asian tiger is a free market lion. the union is the largest foreign investor in taiwan’s free and open market, and we hold regular dialogues to address trade and investment matters, but bilateral trade volumes are lagging behind and the potential for bilateral investment is huge. the commissioner spoke of promoting europe’s values through an agreement with the people’s republic of china. the treaties allow us to promote them too through showing support for democratic taiwan. if we have decided that negotiating an agreement with china is the route to increased investment and trade levels, then we should think in the same vein in terms of the union and taiwan, including allowing the european investment bank to invest there. so i join the calls on the commission to propose a parallel bilateral investment agreement with taiwan – a win-win for both parties to improve the legal certainty for investors and increase the volume and quality of investment flows. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i think my noble friend, mr kazak, has touched upon something that will no doubt be a fear in the minds of some of the leaders in some of our member states. but it is for the union to be bold in these matters. china has no official objection to trade with taiwan, and therefore it can have no realistic or defensible objection to such an agreement with taiwan. it is in our interests to promote our values, and that means trading with all countries and recognising that we share far more in common with countries that are democracies than with those which are not.
madam president, the eu has a trade deficit with taiwan but it has a surplus in services. the uk has a substantial trade deficit with taiwan, a ratio of almost 3:1, which has undermined and is continuing to undermine british industry. our surplus in services is diminishing year by year. uk investment in taiwan dwarfs taiwan’s investment in britain by a factor of almost 4:1. thus british capital, deferred consumption if you like, is financing competition from taiwan. furthermore, that country is investing in low-wage economies in the far east that will also compete with all of our industries. the rapporteurs are not commending trade with taiwan pragmatically because it benefits the eu: they commend it because it advances the wto objective of open trade worldwide. the eu is not pursuing european objectives, but global objectives.
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you very much indeed for inviting me to present this important single market report. i want also to thank the members of my committee, who worked with me on this important proposal. i see that a number of my shadow rapporteurs are here, i have not seen all of them today, but i can see in particular that andreas schwab is here, who played a very critical role in view of the fact that his constituency has an important watery boundary full of recreational craft on lake constance. sometimes people ask: why do we need regulations, why do we need harmonised regulations for products? first of all, i think it is important to remember how important the manufacturing sector for recreational craft is in total, because there are many small businesses involved. it is estimated there are around 37 000 businesses. i am indebted to our own library service, by the way, which has done a very good briefing on this in updating these figures, because many jobs are created, not just in boatbuilders, but also in all the engine and marine manufacturers, and of course the people who use the boats as well. what we have been seeking to obtain, as always with single market work, is to add value, to create that single market that is so crucial for manufacturers. i think what is interesting in this case is that, first of all, this is a proposal that has a long history, as far back as 1994. it was updated in 2003 and our task this time has been to update it, to deal with some of the fragmentation issues that are still there, where boatbuilders have experienced problems in not having their craft certified and having to get them inspected for individual markets, as well as to address environmental and safety issues. just to show you the extent of the reach of this, may i quote from a note that i got from the european boating industry, which contributed together with many other stakeholders to the consultations that led to this proposal. they said to me that these obligations increase the safety of operations or bring environmental benefits and put an end to the national variations that fragment the market and force manufacturers to adapt craft for various member states. i think there can be no clearer indication of the importance of creating a single market. sometimes we forget that in these small building blocks we are creating a very important economic space, a whole european supply chain which is good for consumers, good for the environment and is also good for business. what are the substantial points that we worked on here? first of all, the environmental performance of engines has been very significant. as with many other internal-combustion-powered transport equipment, those will be improved. i want to thank the commission for being visionary enough to align those regulations with the united states, so this is a sign of a global industry emerging. we have also made detailed changes, for example about classification of water craft; it is interesting that this was an idea that came from my committee and not from the commission, but i want to thank the commission for accepting that. part of it was because we carried out our own impact assessment on this specific proposal, which we presented to the council and they were persuaded by parliament’s own impact assessment work to adopt this proposal. and in case any of you think that impact assessments are rather an obscure tool, you can see here how it has directly influenced the outcome. there have been a number of other detailed changes and i am sure that i may be able to pick those up later when i respond at the end of the debate. i have great pleasure in presenting this proposal to you. it was adopted by a unanimous vote in my committee and i hope it will have the same treatment from the whole plenary tomorrow.
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you very much. i want to thank all my colleagues who have contributed and have been almost embarrassingly kind about the work i have done. like all things in our committees, it has been a shared activity, but i thank them very much. i see that all my shadow rapporteurs have disappeared, because clearly it is getting late, but i just want to record my thanks, as well as to mr schwab, as i mentioned earlier, to mr manders, mr repo and the very hard-working mrs rühle from the green group. we have covered a number of the aspects. i just want to reflect on the fact that we are now firmly in the implementation stage. we have had difficult discussions on a lot of internal market issues. we have discussed comitology. i await with interest the commission’s latest view on our compromise proposals, but i would just like to say that we are keen that parliament should continue to monitor what is going on. we do not have a specific role in the implementation procedures, but it is not satisfactory (and i am sure colleagues would agree) for us simply to pass legislation and then not see how it works in practice, particularly because of the length of time between these amendments. so i would regard this as being, for my committee and for our successor committees, something that will be a continuing file to follow. we have put in specific review provisions – particularly, as the commissioner says, about future enhancements in areas like environmental performance on both emissions and noise. the observant among you will have perhaps spotted that there has been a very long time between the committee vote, which was in june last year, and bringing this to parliament. that is because the specialists in the council – the naval architects and specialists – do not meet that often, but we felt that, rather than precipitate a second reading, we would send them our first reading and all the data and the impact assessments, and then we would let them come to a conclusion and then we would put a final package together. that was signed during the irish presidency, and i particularly want to thank michael klein, who was leading that, because he was instrumental – together with the commission services and my colleagues – in getting this agreement. that concludes this procedure. i look forward to a resounding endorsement of this proposal tomorrow.
rapporteur. − mr president, it falls to me as the chair of the committee to put forward formally the resolution that was passed by the committee on transport and tourism, which is to reject the commission’s proposal on what has become known as flight and duty time. i have to do that formally. my own personal view is somewhat different to the view the committee took at the time, but nevertheless, i just formally make that proposal to you.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, on behalf of my group, i am extremely disappointed to see this resolution brought before the plenary and have been even more frustrated by a good deal of misinformation which has surrounded this issue. i have all the information, mr krahmer, just in case you need any more. having worked as airline crew in this sector for nearly 25 years prior to becoming an mep, and having dealt with flight time limitation and industrial agreements for much of that time in my capacity as a trade union negotiator, my expertise in this area has proved extremely useful. i assure you that i am the last person to take lightly safety issues, having been responsible for the initial introduction of mandatory reporting across the eu as well as improving airport security following 9/11 and much more. for nearly four years the trade unions, industry, naa experts and others have been involved in these discussions, following extensive research in line with the latest scientific and technical developments. any set of flight time limitation rules therefore needs to be considered as a whole package rather than a set of individual isolated requirements. this package of measures contains a number of welcome provisions that should deliver significant safety improvements in the regulation as a whole. these changes generally apply stricter rules than those currently applied in many countries, even such as france and germany. to be clear: this regulation has no mandate to affect collective bargaining agreements. it is purely an overriding regulatory framework, with safety at its heart. the most protective rules will always apply, ensuring that the highest levels of safety are always guaranteed. to conclude, the hugely respected uk civil aviation authority and all other member state national aviation authorities and member state governments support this revision and i hope that we will reject this resolution. however, i would also suggest that the parties report back to the committee on transport one year after the regulation's introduction. i come from an island nation that relies on a safe and reliable transport sector, particularly in the area of aviation, to transport people and goods, and i want to ensure that our passengers can fly in the knowledge that the highest levels of safety are in place and are enforced effectively. that is why my group will be supporting the regulation as it applies.
mr president, this has not been the easiest of files to get to understand. this is something where we certainly have to be careful as to what decision we make when i am told that pilots are falling asleep all the time. nobody, i believe, wants pilots to be falling asleep on duty, especially not we meps who are frequent flyers. aviation safety is of paramount importance, and at the moment having different rules in every member state is not safe for passengers, it is not safe for pilots and is not safe for cabin crews. these rules are about closing loopholes, such as resting times and crossing time zones. rejecting these rules means that these loopholes will remain. do we really want pilots who have crossed four time zones to have no additional rest requirements? in the uk we have absolutely no rules on this at the moment. fatigue management regulations are necessarily complex. it is impossible to cherry-pick one or two individual requirements without looking at the whole package. it would mean politically negotiating safety rules and fatigue management rules, instead of basing our judgment on scientific evidence and expert knowledge. of course scientific evidence evolves. that is why the review of these rules in three years’ time is so important. it is important for the safety of pilots and for the crews and passengers, but we need these rules today to ensure aviation safety in europe.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would just like to correct the last speaker because the information that he has just disclosed to this house is incorrect. those were not the facts ascertained by the civil aviation authority in its investigations. i am sure he would agree that, if we want the eu to have one of the world’s safest industries, we need to be very careful to ensure that there are no unnecessary knee-jerk reactions or misinformation which sends out the wrong message. we can agree to disagree on what steps need to be taken, but these sorts of comments by some colleagues are wholly inappropriate and totally unprofessional, and colleagues who have to resort to these issues should not be taking part in this debate.
mr president, i have just come in for the catch-the-eye procedure because i am concerned that certain members are using rhetoric that clearly demonstrates a lack of confidence not only in easa but also in their own national safety regulators. i have heard people of all nationalities talk about a lack of safety and about passengers being put at risk, and yet every single national safety regulator supported this proposal. the german, belgian and spanish ones all supported this regulation. i am concerned by the misinformation that is going round. on the issue of two pilots on the flight deck, the first thing i would say to our colleague from slovakia is never believe anything you see in the british press. secondly, it was decided that what was said there was not true. the civil aviation authority came out and said that. my final point concerns lobbying. i have probably been lobbied more than anyone else by european airlines over the years. on this matter, however, i have experienced more lobbying by the trade unions – pilots in particular – than by the airlines. members can make of that what they wish, but the fact remains that the lobbying has been intense and strong. that is their right. but let us not start talking about lobbying by airlines. the fact of the matter is that the lobbying has been on both sides of the argument.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i do not believe in a common asylum system, but i do believe that this parliament and our member states should do all we can to address the devastating humanitarian crisis, sitting just across the waters of this continent, through political will and financial and humanitarian assistance. the number of refugees who have fled syria is beyond comprehension and, as these numbers grow, so does the probability that more people will risk their lives to reach our shores. i strongly believe that solidarity, cooperation between member states and meaningful assistance do not need to come in the form of legal compulsion, but instead in the form of a moral imperative which has been acknowledged since the geneva convention. the best place to start when solving any problem is to be honest about the challenges that face us, and the discussions as a consequence of the tragic events in lampedusa are delivering lessons that we should have learnt before. our best hope of preventing further tragic loss of life and combating the massive pressures on member states’ asylum systems is to be prepared, and that does not happen by burying our heads in the sand and hoping the problem will go away. this humanitarian crisis will not disappear from europe’s borders – or our consciousness – by us ignoring it. it is not just italy’s, spain’s or malta’s problem. this is illustrated by the numbers of syrian refugees in germany, sweden and the uk. therefore, i welcome the commissioner’s proposals to do more to watch europe’s borders at sea. we need to do more to combat human trafficking and to save the lives of the desperate who come here. we need to do more to make the aid we send to war-torn countries more accountable and more effective, and above all we need to learn from the mistakes of the past.
mr president, the number of refugees fleeing syria to escape this brutal civil war is deeply worrying. it is right that the situation receives the attention of parliament this morning. i believe that it is important that those displaced by fighting in syria are effectively protected by the international community. while it is right that we do not intervene militarily, it is also right that we have a coordinated and compassionate humanitarian response. however, i am also deeply concerned by those still facing death and suffering within syria. this house should consider the position of syrian christians, the largest minority population within that country. reports of killings directed specifically at them, reports of some jihadist rebel groups forcing conversion to islam, should be of grave concern to this house. i would urge the house, and particularly the commissioner and his colleagues, in any ensuing debate and in any follow-up conference, to uphold the fundamental rights of christians in syria, and that they be supported in every way possible.
madam president, three things were said by the syrian refugees our group is hosting in strasbourg last night. i quote: ‘we don’t believe in the international community any more, we are dying in camps because we have no food, milk or medicine. if you kept the humanitarian corridor open i would be one of the first people to go back to syria. who would have thought we would seek safe haven in a country like yemen?’ the conservative spokesperson this morning, who i do respect, said of the syrian refugee crisis that europe must show solidarity and recognise our moral imperative, repeating the exact words of the british prime minister at the g20 meeting. yet britain is not amongst the 12 eu countries which have offered resettlement to syrian refugees, and about the recent protests by syrian refugees trying to enter britain via france, the uk border agencies said (again i quote): ‘illegal migration in france is the responsibility of the french authorities’. i say in this debate that i do not know what definition of solidarity there is which says that 60 % of resettlement in europe is borne by two countries, not including my own. i do not know what definition of morality exists which says that syrian refugees are living in desperation in their own region but become illegal migrants within our own.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, today we have an important vote ahead of us to speed up and simplify the recognition process for qualified professionals throughout the eu. having worked on professional qualifications for the last two and a half years as the rapporteur of the own-initiative report preceding this directive, i am pleased that the compromise text includes many of the proposals introduced in my initial report. i have strongly supported streamlining many of the existing bureaucratic procedures for qualified professionals. at the same time i have been keen to ensure that the final text provides for essential safety checks to be in place for health professionals, by tightening up the rules on language checks so that we can be sure professionals have the necessary skills and ability to communicate with patients before they can work in the uk. an alert mechanism which i initially proposed in my report in 2011 has now been set up, so that member states will be obliged to inform the competent authorities of all other member states about any professional who has been prohibited from exercising his professional activity. i am also very pleased that my amendments to align the minimum training requirements for doctors to the uk system were included in the final text, as we have fantastic doctors in the uk who undergo extensive training and rigorous exams at some of the world’s best universities. hopefully we can now get our professionals recognised whilst ensuring the safety of our citizens and i will be voting in favour of this report.
madam president, we frequently hear that the eu gives us the right to live and work in other countries, but allow me to tell you about simon butler, a british ski instructor who was arrested, handcuffed, and dragged off the slopes in front of his class as if he were a common criminal. had he committed a crime? no. his only crime was that the french did not think his qualifications were good enough. we are talking about a man who easily qualifies as a uk instructor, so why were his qualifications not recognised? this is unfair. we are not talking about a criminal: we are talking about a law-abiding citizen whom the french ski and police authorities clearly want to victimise. i have asked commissioner barnier to meet me and discuss this issue and i await his response.
madam president, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to pay particular tribute to all my colleagues who worked really hard – as mrs vergnaud and the other rapporteurs pointed out – not just on the immediate work to improve and agree this package that the commission sent us, in a series of very intensive negotiations with the council, but also in the preparatory work for this. i want to point out to the house, as i have done on other occasions, that one of the characteristics of our work on internal market dossiers recently has been the fact that we are not prepared to just wait for the commission to send us proposals, but we had been working with them and with the stakeholders, the professions, consumer organisations and particularly with the medical professionals for two years before we received the proposal. i think the quality of work shows, and i pay particular tribute to all of those who have been involved in that long process. finally, i would also like to pay particular tribute to the personal engagement on this dossier by michel barnier as the commissioner. you heard earlier about his passion for some of the issues here. that always helps us to get a good result. i think we have delivered a good result on this, but i emphasise that we need to be considering not just the short term, but the whole process rather than just the final result today.
madam president, i should like to thank the rapporteur. the overall aim of this directive is to simplify the recognition of professional qualifications, which in turn will make it easier for skilled workers to work abroad. we have heard much about the professional card, clarification and updating of minimum training requirements. on language skills, although there are already obligations for professionals to have the necessary language requirements, this clarifies that competent authorities are able to apply language controls after the recognition of qualifications. on the alert mechanisms: others have spoken about this. member states will now have to proactively alert authorities about professionals no longer entitled to practise their profession. on the importance of the recognition of traineeships: it is important that eu citizens enjoy our freedoms that cross-border activity can bring. this brings me to the final point, that when we are looking at these interactions and commissioner barnier is working on basic bank accounts as well, it is important that we get all those things right.
in writing. − i voted against this because the agreement concerns steps and processes for establishing the european banking union, which my party opposes. this directive calls for regular exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee, oral discussions behind closed doors with the bureau of the same committee and, ultimately, better access to information, including the non-confidential parts of the minutes of the supervisory board. in my view such measures are very harmful to the interests of british companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement. increasing the democratic accountability of every eu institution, in order to bring the eu closer to every one of its citizens, including those from wales, has long been a commitment of mine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because parliament needed to support it in order to allow an existing agreement to be finalised.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report today and i am glad to see that the final steps to establish this interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the european central bank are being taken.
in writing. − this resolution aims to facilitate the work of the european parliament in passing more eu legislation. therefore, i voted against the motion.
mr president, when we talk to our electorate about the budget, they often ask us simple questions. first of all, what is all the money for? is it being put to good use? and they ask about the waste. yet, year after year – for 18 years – we have been unable to give the eu accounts a clean bill of health. what do our voters ask us then? they ask how they can continue to give money to institutions that do not take proper account of the way that taxpayers’ money is being spent. in these difficult times, when we are asking governments to cut back on their spending, yet the eu is seen to be seen to be wasting taxpayers’ money which could be spent in their home countries, is it any wonder that there is a rise in euroscepticism and criticism of the eu institutions? before we lecture the rest of the world about corruption and other issues, let us make sure we get our own house in order.
mr president, what is the primary function of a parliamentarian? it is not to stand up in these debates, it is not to sit on committee, it is not even to put out press releases about what a good job we are doing in our constituency. the elemental role of a legislature is to hold the executive to account over spending. that has been the one constant job of parliaments ever since we have had a parliament in my country, going back to tudor or even to plantagenet times, and the function of the allied assemblies that existed in the other north-western european countries and that then spread across the whole continent. but we are failing to discharge that function properly. this discharge procedure, like all the others, identifies repeated flaws and problems in procurement, in the procedures not being properly followed, and in money being stolen and lost in graft and nepotism, but we always want a bigger budget because the majority of meps would rather have money being spent badly by brussels than have it being spent competently by local or national authorities. thus do we delegitimise ourselves and thus do we condemn the whole project.
in writing. − i voted to support this motion as it refuses to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the european council budget for the financial year 2011. there are numerous catalogued examples of lack of transparency and misspending: for instance, the large amount of unnecessary spending incurred in building a new headquarters for the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the court of auditors concluded that, as a whole, the payments for 2011 for the institutions’ and bodies’ administrative and other expenditure were free from material error. it is important that these checks are carried out by the court of auditors to ensure that all money spent in the eu institutions is accounted for and to avoid waste. my constituency, wales, is a net beneficiary of the eu budget, and it is crucial that the eu spends its budget efficiently and without error.
in writing. − i voted to postpone discharge because the council has declined to respond to written questions, so there is currently no basis on which discharge can be agreed.
in writing. − it is vital that we, as meps, can assure our constituents that their hard-earned taxpayer’s money is being spent effectively and smartly by the eu, without waste or mismanagement. we must also be able to assure them that eu spending is held to full account and that the eu’s budgets can be awarded full legitimacy. whilst the eu remains unable to grant discharge on its budgets, we find ourselves in the unacceptable position of not being able to provide these assurances to our constituents – this is not good enough and must be remedied.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which postpones discharge for the council’s spending for 2011. parliament has consistently asked for the council to provide information on its spending so that it will be subject to the same scrutiny as all other eu institutions, but the council has once again declined to respond. the european parliament is united in its belief that, as long as there is no response from the council, there is no basis on which the committee on budgetary control and parliament can grant discharge. it is vitally important that information on council spending is provided, along with that of all other eu institutions, so that voters are aware of what the european budget is being spent on and the management of the eu budget is fully transparent.
mr president, i voted in favour of environmental impact assessments being extended to the exploration and extraction of shale gas. after all, over 100 governments across europe, such as france, and countries around the world like south africa, canada and australia have a ban or moratorium on fracking. there are well-grounded concerns that we are destroying the earth from under our feet. the green fields of ireland could go from 40 shades of green to 50 shades of grey. fracking is at a depth below groundwater, and the drilling operation crosses drinking water. there are concerns about the potential damage to crop land, which could be affected by contaminated groundwater. we should always apply the precautionary principle, especially when we know that there were seismic tremors caused by shale gas exploration in the north-west of england.
mr president, at a time when we need to look at the supply of housing, and at the same time also look at infrastructure projects, at a time when we need to deal with many of these important issues, it is quite right that we get the right balance between development and the environment. but let us just hold on a moment, when we look to diversify our energy resources or our energy sources, because people have suddenly started getting very upset about this whole idea of fracking, using any excuse they can find to stop it in its tracks – but what they forget is that fracking is not a recent phenomenon. it has been going on for years. fracking has been going on in parts of germany since 1955, yet you would not think that to listen to some of the scaremongering in the debate. it is absolutely right that we get the right balance between environmental concerns and diversifying our energy sources and developing our country, but let us get rid of some of this scaremongering. we need to look at the environmental impact on a case-by-case basis, not a one-size-fits-all approach from europe.
mr president, over the weekend i went for a long walk in my constituency. i was consciously hoarding the retinal images against what i knew would be a long week in the european parliament. i strolled across the broad chalk fields of north hampshire and i could not help but notice that the environment was cleaner than it has ever been. there are more trees in britain than at any time since we started chopping them down for the first wave of the industrial revolution; there are birds of prey circling overhead – a very rare sight in my boyhood – otters have returned to the rivers; there are salmon and trout in the thames. the environment keeps getting cleaner. you would not think that listening to the tone of the debates in this place. we seem to have some hardwired part of our brains that makes us determined to think that we are on the brink of a catastrophe. but the stubborn facts speak for themselves. we in the west are breathing cleaner air and drinking cleaner water than at any time before. and what has done that? property. capitalism. trade. it was marxism that taught that nature was a resource to be exploited. a vision that found brutal realisation in the smokestack industries of eastern europe. the best thing to have happened to the environment was the fall of the berlin wall. cheer up! things keep getting better.
in writing. − i believe this is unnecessary red tape imposed by the eu, and i stand by the view that we need to be independent of any such legislation, especially in relation to the uk’s own energy production. decisions on hydraulic fracturing and shale production should be taken by the uk parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission proposal which revises the union legislation on minimum requirements for assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (environmental impact assessment). the existing directive has been implemented for nearly 20 years largely unamended. it ensures that public authorities make well informed decisions when giving planning permission to development projects, and is one of the key instruments for environmental integration. the law has needed strengthening for many years. i very much welcome the inclusion of fracking for shale gas within the scope of the legislation but i find it regrettable that pylons are not included, and that will be disappointing for my constituents in many parts of wales.
in writing. − i did not vote in favour of the compromise amendment which called for impact assessments for the evaluation and exploration of shale gas, as i feel it would be too bureaucratically burdensome and disproportionate to have impact assessments in evaluation and exploration stages. in addition, i believe it is imperative that we have impact assessments when there is extraction and so i voted against minimum thresholds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because an update is needed to bring the legislation into line with eu environmental priorities, such as biodiversity, climate change and the sustainable use of natural resources.
in writing. − i am aware that this report tackles some important and complex issues and it is another of the issues being debated at this week’s plenary session which has stirred much debate amongst both colleagues and constituents. however, i do have concerns about some of the proposals outlined in this report. i fear that they could result in the introduction of unnecessary burdens for developers and relevant authorities and slow the delivery of key infrastructure in member states, without providing us with guarantees that these new requirements would deliver actual environmental benefits.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment because i believe a strengthened eia directive will benefit the environment, human health and the economy. it will achieve this with more efficient, simplified procedures and will provide a level playing field for projects as well as economic activities. i hope to see a more harmonised and effective eia procedure, which would have less administrative burdens and will provide overriding benefits for the environment and human health.
in writing. − environmental impact assessments (eias) are required for all projects that are likely to have a significant impact on the environment; these include projects such as building a road or railway, or mining. this update to the legislation was necessary to correct some shortcomings and to take account of new issues such as climate change and the use of natural resources. the strengthened eia directive will benefit the environment, human health and the economy and ensure that the public have much more access to information throughout the process. as well as ensuring that eias are carried out whenever necessary, the updated legislation will also require authorities to coordinate eias with other assessments required by eu law, such as those on industrial emissions, water quality and natural habitats. one of the big issues in this vote was whether an eia should be required for all shale gas exploration and extraction, regardless of the size of the project. i voted in favour of this, although i was disappointed that meps voted to require eias only for the phase where the fracking technique is actually being used. labour meps also voted in favour of extending eias to cover all airport construction.
mr president, when i take walks in my constituency of london along that marvellous river, the river thames – whether it be in the east end of london, parts of dagenham or tower hamlets, canary wharf, or i walk through the centre of the london all the way out to the south-west, to kingston and on to hampton court – i see many people enjoying the pleasures of being on the river and using personal watercraft, to give it its technical name – a non-technical name would probably be boats – sailing away, enjoying the day. i am sure they will be very reassured by our vote today to think that they can now sail away in safety. as the great philosophers, deep purple, once said, ‘if you’re drifting on an empty ocean with no wind to fill your sail, the future, your horizon, it’s like searching for the holy grail’. they will be grateful for what we have voted on today and i am sure they will sleep safer in their beds.
mr president, there are times when the eu authorities act with a symbolism that goes beyond anything i could say, and such a time came with the launch of a bronze age craft to celebrate the euro-region which spans the english channel. many of the local authorities in my south-east of england constituency are twinned, as part of something called the trans-manche region, with their equivalent municipalities on the other side of the channel: a very harmless way for some councillors to enjoy freebie-ing around at public expense. next to the atrocities that the european union is capable of, it is a fairly minor one, but there was a delicious moment when they decided that the way to celebrate the anniversary of the trans-manche region was to have a replica bronze age vessel that would go from one side of the channel to the other. well, i am sure you can all guess what happened. let me put it like this, the bail-outs failed. the ship took on water and in a perfect metaphor for what is now happening to the european economy, it sank.
in writing. − i voted against this directive as it creates further unnecessary eu red tape and continues to impose european legislation about environmental restrictions which my party opposes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this updating of the recreational craft directive. watercraft used on welsh waters must adhere to specific pollutant limits to protect water quality, and to acceptable noise levels.
in writing. − there are some 6 million motor boats, sailing boats and personal watercraft used for sports and leisure throughout the eu. it is estimated that the marine leisure sector comprises more than 37 000 businesses, primarily smes, with around 272 000 direct employees in equipment manufacturing companies, sailing schools etc. i know of many such businesses in my own constituency, where marine leisure activities have become increasingly prevalent in places like dundrum bay and strangford lough. the report which parliament has adopted encourages harmonisation in the single market through the introduction of an updated system for defining boat design categories and regulating exhaust emissions. this is good for local businesses, as boat builders and equipment manufacturers will be less hampered in selling their wares by member states’ differing specifications. the report is also welcome for the positive environmental impact it will have. it successfully supplements previous commission proposals on reducing exhaust emissions and increasing the environmental performance of engines. i therefore welcome the almost unanimous vote in favour of my colleague malcolm harbour’s report on recreational craft and watercraft, and i congratulate him and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on improving the commission proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i support the modernisation of eu safety rules and environmental performance requirements.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote in favour of this report led by my conservative colleague, which aims to establish improved safety and environmental performance requirements for watercraft. this report revises boat categories, making them much clearer for boat designers and buyers in our constituencies, a welcome step. it will also strengthen the eu’s single market and improve market conditions for europe’s manufacturers by getting rid of national variations in requirements for standard equipment fitted to recreational watercraft.
mr president, if you are unwell, injured or ill, you need to get access to a good doctor. but you also have to be able to communicate with them, and language skills are really important. the vote that we took today makes it utterly clear that, going forward, doctors’ english language skills will be tested before they are given a licence to practise in the uk. and the new alert system means that, if a doctor is struck off in one country, they will not just be able to move to another country and carry on practising with other patients. lives have been lost in the past because this was not clear. these changes have taken too long. we as legislators need to make it clear that, when there are problems with eu rules, we need to act faster for our patients and for the people that we represent.
mr president, i welcome these rule changes that are in part a result of lessons learned from the tragic death of my cambridgeshire constituent, david gray, at the hands of a clearly incompetent foreign locum doctor. his sons, stuart and rory, support the more stringent checks that have been agreed upon as regards qualifications and professional competencies. i welcome the involvement of the bma and the clarification of the right to test language skills. however, the family has asked me to say that they are still worried about implementation since, as we all know, those language checks were fully permitted under previous legislation, and they are concerned about possible conflicts with data privacy rules, particularly in germany. i want to point out that the doctor who killed david gray is still registered to practise and is working as a locum doctor in germany. the doctor refused to return to britain for the inquest. the family have now taken their case to the european court of human rights. there will be no peace for the gray family until justice in their case is achieved.
mr president, in a chamber such as this, there are often times when we all disagree. that is the nature of politics. but one of the issues that i think brings most of us together in this chamber is a properly functioning internal market. at the same time, for us it is essential that we make sure we tackle any problems that may arise when we impose this single market. we have seen in the case of medical qualifications and recognition of medical qualifications, that there have been some tragic incidents. both mrs ford and mr howitt spoke movingly of the deaths of one of their own constituents at the hands of a doctor who had a certificate of good standing from germany, came to practise in britain and failed an english language test, was employed by another authority, and gave a patient an overdose. it is quite right that we tighten up these requirements to make sure that when we are pushing for a single market and an internal market, the safety of our patients and our citizens is not at risk. for this reason i think most of us can welcome what we have voted on today.
in writing. − i am against this directive because the uk already faces a number of immigration and healthcare challenges which would only increase if the directive were to be adopted. on the one hand, introducing a virtual professional qualifications card that would make it easier for european healthcare professionals to move and practice in other eu countries would cause a brain drain in some european countries that are in dire need of qualified healthcare professionals. on the other hand, it would increase the difficulties in already challenged labour markets in countries such as the uk, which are struggling to support local workers while dealing with an influx of legal and illegal immigration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as the streamlining and modernisation of the professional qualification recognition system is a key aspect of free movement. this will help ensure that the people of wales can benefit even more from the right to work, and to have their professional qualifications recognised, in every eu member state.
in writing. − mr president, today i voted in favour of this motion. the safety of patients must always come first, and this change will protect patients from dodgy doctors who should not be practising medicine in scotland. these new rules will help ensure that eu doctors and nurses working in the nhs have the right medical qualifications but also the language skills to communicate clearly and effectively with patients. the rules on mutual recognition of professional qualifications are also great news for scots who want to market their skills in other eu countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because today this legislation will mean that a new europe-wide alert mechanism for professionals will be brought in. for example, doctors struck off elsewhere in the eu will not be able to practise in britain. it also introduces more comprehensive language checks on doctors, nurses, dentists, vets, midwives and pharmacists.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the simplification of procedures for migrant workers and the recognition of professional qualifications.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report today on the recognition of professional qualifications and administrative cooperation throughout our internal market. the internal market is the strongest asset the eu has and i support efforts to strengthen it, in this case by making it simpler and quicker for our citizens to attain recognition of their professional qualifications abroad. however it is essential that whilst doing so, we also ensure that the high standards we have for all professionals in the uk, and across member states, particularly those that we have in place for healthcare professionals, are maintained, and i am pleased to see that this report tackles this very important issue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recognition of professional qualifications and administrative cooperation through the internal market information system. i did so because i support clarification of professional qualifications within the eu. i believe that simplification of the procedures whereby citizens can have their professional qualifications transferred and recognised throughout the eu, enabling them to exercise their profession in another eu member state, is a positive development. i was happy to see that a compromise had been reached so that the five-year courses run in 17 uk medical schools will remain recognised in the european economic area. overall, i believe that this legislation will enhance the quality of eu professionals throughout the entire european union.
in writing. − the professional qualifications directive sets rules for ensuring that qualifications required for entry into certain professions are recognised throughout the eu in order to facilitate freedom of movement for citizens. at the moment, professional mobility remains low due to a lack of simple and clear rules on mutual recognition of qualifications. i voted in favour of this update to the law, which will simplify the procedure while maintaining the high standards required to ensure quality and safety. in particular, the law will continue to allow employers to apply language controls on the recognition of qualifications so that anyone seeking professional work in the uk, such as a doctor or nurse, must first demonstrate a very strong grasp of english. the updated law also includes added measures to protect patients by introducing a europe-wide alert system – this means that a doctor who has been struck off elsewhere in europe will not be able to practise in the uk.
in writing. − i prefer not to give our consent to such agreements, particularly as we have our own immigration policies in the uk and do not want eu involvement in such legislative concerns. the question of readmission of illegal immigrants from armenia, and those who are no longer in possession of a valid permit to work and/or live in the eu, should be dealt with through a bilateral agreement with armenia, which i believe will be far more efficient.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement. it is important for all eu citizens, the people of wales included, that the union’s relations with our neighbours remain strong and effective. the simplification of this system will most certainly assist in that endeavour.
in writing. − i supported this report because i am in favour of a simplified visa regime which will enable greater mobility of citizens.
in writing. − as the uk is not taking part in the adoption of this decision on visa facilitation with armenia i opted on this occasion to abstain on this report.
in writing. − i supported this report because i am in favour of a clarification of procedures between the eu and armenia on returning people who are residing irregularly in the respective territories.
in writing. − as a party we voted to support this motion as it opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending the regulation which attempts to establish a list of permitted health claims on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children’s development and health.
in writing. − i voted today to support the resolution drafted by dr sommer mep which opposes the commission’s draft measure to establish a list of permitted claims made in foods. i believe it is right that the european parliament takes such action to hold the european commission to full account in instances where it cannot support the content of measures put forward or it feels that full and proper proceedings have not been followed.
in writing. − the claim that carbohydrates contribute to the maintenance of normal brain function is already legally permitted, although i personally feel extremely uncomfortable with it. the european commission has, however, proposed restricting the use of this claim to foods containing complex carbohydrates, those low in sugar, or those containing natural sugars, such as fruit; foods such as cakes, biscuits and fizzy drinks, which contain added sugar, would not be able to use the claim. the resolution that meps voted on today objected to this restriction and, if supported, would allow all products containing carbohydrates, including those that are high in sugar, to claim that they are ‘good for the brain’. i therefore voted against the resolution, which would only favour food manufacturers and would go against the interests of consumers and health.
mr president, today i was exceptionally pleased that parliament threw out the objections by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to the commission’s new proposals on food products of animal origin. the objection raised by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety seemed to be based on misinformation and claims that this was going to water down the standards in slaughterhouses when, in actual fact, the reality is that the commission’s proposals will strengthen the rules on hygiene in slaughterhouses and animal processing factories. therefore, i am very pleased that parliament decided today to overrule the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and to back the commission’s plans for a much safer meat hygiene system across the rest of europe.
in writing. − we voted to support this motion as it opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending the regulation which attempts to establish a list of permitted health claims on foods. it is my view that such matters should be the responsibility of uk authorities.
in writing. − consumers have the right to know that the food they are purchasing is subject during production to the absolute highest standards of food hygiene and food safety requirements possible. consumers need to know that the food hygiene guarantees that their food comes with are cast-iron. therefore we must, where necessary, update our systems of control, in order to ensure that they employ the most effective and modern practices for guaranteeing food safety. i therefore support the european commission’s proposal to make changes to practices for the inspection of pigmeat and i voted to reject the envi committee’s resolution.
in writing. − i believe that a sovereign nation does not need to be part of a large trade block in order to sign trade agreements. iceland, for instance, has now suspended its application for eu membership which in our view is a wise decision. in the context of trade, if iceland were to join the eu it would then be obliged to abandon the independent trade agreement it has already with china. this is the reason we abstained on this directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agreed with its position that any eu-china deal must substantially improve eu firmsʼ position in the chinese market. eu-china economic relations must be upgraded, but cultural and audiovisual services should be excluded. as with any trade deal, workersʼ rights and minimum labour standards should be respected.
in writing. − i voted to support this resolution, which considers the potential eu-china negotiations for a bilateral investment agreement. i particularly welcome this resolution’s call for an agreement to serve the interests of eu smes. access to large global markets such as china, in any field, is often the most difficult for our smes to achieve. therefore we must take every opportunity when negotiating bilateral agreements on trade, investment etc. to make it easier for our smes to engage in overseas markets and to reap the opportunities for trade and expansion that they hold out.
in writing. − i fully support this motion for a resolution for an agreement on a mandate to open negotiations on an investment agreement with china. this will help deepen ties between the eu and china and further develop a strong partnership. over eur 1 billion is traded each day between china and the eu and i believe there is huge potential to develop bilateral investment ties that will enhance this further. in my own constituency of wales, the importance of developing trade and investment links for the eu with china has been demonstrated through the memorandum of understanding between the chongqing municipal government and the welsh government. this close cooperation demonstrates the increasing significance of developing the ambitious economic and social expansion of both chongqing and wales, and i look forward to further collaboration in the future.
in writing. − a sovereign nation does not need to be a part of a large trade block in order to sign trade agreements, which is why i abstained from voting for eu-taiwan trade relations. it is important that the uk independently represents its own interests on a global stage rather than within the domains of the eu.
in writing. − as the eu’s 7th largest trading partner in asia, it is important that we engage positively with taiwan and explore the possibilities of strengthening our trade relations via negotiations for a bilateral agreement on investment protection and market access. for this reason i voted in favour of this resolution today.
mr president, on the frequent flyer issue i declare an interest. i voted to reject this commission proposal. it is clear that flight time regulations have a strong impact on air transport safety. the commission proposals have been badly thought out with very little apparent consideration given to the serious detrimental safety implications they would have for the pilots working in this industry, and for passengers. indeed, an exhausted pilot is a dangerous pilot. pilots themselves would be the first to acknowledge that, and the first to confirm that a tired cabin crew will not be able to respond properly in an emergency. we need to make sure that passengers are safe. human factors are responsible for 73 % of aviation accidents and crashes. it is foolish of the commission to make proposals which will increase pilot fatigue and the likelihood of fatal mistakes.
mr president, the european airspace is one of the busiest in the world, and passenger safety must of course be a priority. this is especially a concern for me as an mep for london, the home of heathrow airport, which last year saw nearly 70 million passengers embark on over 470 000 flights. the commission’s proposals to amend flight time limitations have certainly sparked interest amongst my constituents and the pilots’ union, and it is entirely natural for the public – myself included – to be concerned when it comes to flight safety. in the uk it is the civil aviation authority that takes responsibility for these matters. it enjoys the trust of both government and the industry. that is the organisation which has deemed the eu recommendations to be acceptable, without significant risk to public safety. it therefore gives me personally great confidence in supporting the commission’s proposals today. i strongly encourage my constituents to read their interpretation carefully. the aviation industry is, by its very nature, international in scope, and we must seek to work towards common, international regulations such as the one proposed today.
in writing. − we voted to support this motion, correcting the error which firstly occurred on our part. as a party we would like to assure british pilots that we support their position.
in writing. − on average around 26 000 flights are handled daily over europe, 9.5 million flights per year, which makes the eu’s airspace one of the most congested in the world. it is by taking into account such facts that we can ensure safety for both our passengers and crews and consider issues such as pilot fatigue. flight and duty time limits are specifically designed to make sure that airline crews do not become fatigued to the extent that it affects their ability to undertake their duties. the commission’s regulation contains detailed limits and provisions which effectively address the safety standards for pilots, when considered as a whole package rather than a set of individual requirements. as a whole package, adopting this regulation will deliver significant improvements in flight safety across the eu. its enforcement would require airlines to manage pilot fatigue actively, rather than using their own set limits and it will also give national aviation authorities regulatory tools to ensure fatigue is being managed properly across member states. the commission’s proposal is very similar to the current uk regulations governed by the civil aviation authority and is stricter than the current rules found today in countries such as germany and france.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion to reject the commissionʼs proposal as it is of utmost important to the people of wales and anyone who flies across eu skies that their safety is not compromised.
in writing. − mr president, i voted in favour of the commission’s proposals to harmonise european standards for pilot flight times. this is a sensible resolution which, despite claims to the contrary, will actually improve safety for passengers and will ensure that pilots have sufficient rest periods. in addition, it is worth highlighting that the introduction of minimum standards does not mean that standards already in place in member states – particularly the uk – will be lowered. on the contrary, in those few areas of regulation where there are higher national standards, these will remain as the standards in that country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will bring eu rules on flight safety in line with the strict standards used by british pilots. it is vitally important that the amount of time a pilot is allowed to fly is restricted and that minimum amount of rest that they must take before, after and during flights is legislated too.
in writing. i vote in favour of the resolution calling for the rejection of the commission proposal to amend the administrative requirements and procedures applicable to air operations and concerning changes to flight time limitations for pilots and crew members. the proposed new rules contain many provisions which are in contradiction with the opinions of experts on work fatigue; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this proposal affects the limitation of working time, goes beyond collective agreements and goes straight to deregulation of air services. the negotiations must be reopened on the basis of scientific and medical evidence, in consultation with the various parties and the social partners, in order to protect the working conditions of airline workers, and thus all users.
in writing. − the rules and regulations governing safety in civil aviation are of paramount importance to us all and it is right that any proposals to revise them generate full debate and proper scrutiny of the arguments for and against, as has been the case with this revised proposal on flight and duty time limitation, brought forward by the european commission. i feel that the commission’s proposal does take appropriate steps to address issues relating to fatigue and to ensure high safety standards, in line with those which we already have outlined in uk regulations. for this reason i voted against the resolution calling for a rejection of the commission’s proposal today.
in writing. − i supported measures to make uk airspace safer by making sure that all pilots flying into british airspace adhere to strict standards already in use by uk pilots. currently not all pilots have to stick to rules that uk pilots abide by, and i welcome moves to tighten the rules for other pilots flying into uk airports. i believe that the new rules will increase safety, strengthen rest requirements and reduce night-time flights. a clear example of how flight safety standards will be improved is making sure that for long-haul flights with a duration of over 13 hours, there will have to be a minimum of four pilots on board, instead of three, which is currently the case. i support minimum aviation safety rules being put into place across the eu and i am pleased that the legislation does not prevent the uk aviation sector from applying more stringent rules on health and safety for pilots and cabin crew alike.
in writing. − this resolution called for a rejection of the european commission’s proposals to set eu-wide rules on minimum rest periods and maximum duty times for pilots. along with my labour colleagues, i voted against the resolution and in favour of the commission proposals, which will ensure that all pilots operating in the eu adhere to the same strict standards on flight times that are already in force in the uk. i know that many people are concerned that these new rules will lower safety standards, but they have now been endorsed by europe’s largest transport union, and i am confident that they will actually improve safety across the board by increasing rest requirements and reducing night-time flights. in addition, these rules will only set minimum standards, with member states free to impose stricter rules if they wish. this means that there will be no lowering of standards in the uk at all, and in some cases the rules will actually be stricter; for example, flights of over 13 hours will now require a minimum of 4 pilots to be on board, rather than the current 3, while the maximum night-time flight limit will be reduced from 11h15m to 11 hours.
mr president, all members of this house will observe the situation in syria, which is tragic, with absolute horror and want to express their deepest compassion for the two million or so syrian refugees and displaced persons and try to help however possible. in previous resolutions we have called on the international community to assist syria’s neighbours to cope with the influx, but of course it is only fair that the eu should also do its bit with maximum assistance, particularly financial and technical, in aiming to temporarily settle the refugees in turkey and jordan. ultimately the solution to allowing the displaced people back to syria is to seek a political solution to this terrible civil war and encourage all parties to the geneva peace talks. however, my delegation, the british conservatives, do not accept the use of the eu temporary protection order mechanism when managing large flows of refugees, as this would potentially impose a quota of refugees on the uk, possibly against our wishes. we believe that asylum and immigration policies must be left under the control of national member states and, in this case, the uk government. so overall, i with my conservative colleagues abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − against. we oppose the convening of a conference because we feel that it would be a firm step towards the eu accepting more refugees from the conflict in syria. given that the eu is already the number one destination for most of the worldʼs troubled regions, we cannot support a measure that may increase this, even though we have the deepest sympathy and concern for all those fleeing their home nation because of this conflict.
in writing. − i voted in favour of these measures as the plight of the syrian refugees is of great importance to my constituents in wales. it is our duty as citizens of this world not to shirk our responsibilities during such times. i am proud of the work being done in wales to provide practical help.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there should be a conference, where experts and stakeholders can discuss how best to tackle the incredibly high numbers of refugees from the syrian civil war.
in writing. − the syrian conflict has witnessed catastrophic loss of human life since the fighting between bashar al-assadʼs government forces and the syrian rebel factions began. an almost daily feed of news reports have reminded people worldwide of the horrors of the syrian conflict. it is estimated that over 100 000 people have been killed during the conflict, while around 2.1 million are refugees in neighbouring countries. the un predicts that 3.5 million will have left syria by the end of 2013. i therefore welcome parliamentʼs support for convening a humanitarian conference to help syriaʼs neighbouring countries cope with the escalating influx of refugees, as well as the call for eu countries under pressure to draw on the asylum and migration fund and the preparatory action on emergency resettlement. the conference has the potential to strengthen the euʼs role and involvement in diplomatic efforts to end the conflict, which have hitherto been low-key. i further welcome commissioner barnierʼs commitment to organise such a conference. given current and predicted refugee numbers, i would call on the commission to consider all options available, such as the possibility of applying the temporary protection directive, should the deeply troubling circumstances of the syrian refugees require such action.
in writing. − the ongoing situation in syria is tragic and i am glad that parliament has taken the opportunity today to express its compassion for those affected by this conflict and to evaluate options for how it can provide as much assistance as possible to affected syrians.
blue-card question. – as you rightly said, free movement of people applies to the roma. free movement of people does not, however, apply between spain and gibraltar, which i have the honour of representing. would you agree with me that the eu institutions are thoroughly hypocritical?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, there are ongoing debates in germany, france and other member states about intra-european migration from roma communities, as well as in the uk. i think it is fair to say that – for example in germany, which is attractive to migrants – this poses serious challenges. there are in fact cases known where virtually entire villages have moved from romania to berlin. i think we can all agree that, when there is no pressure for the migrants to integrate, there is a considerable problem. i do believe that integration is absolutely paramount for the long-term benefit of the migrant roma communities, as well as the countries which are receiving them. may i ask the commission, therefore, whether or not it considers the current european legislative framework sufficient to deal with these issues? can i also ask exactly what has changed on the ground in the lives of ordinary roma people? are they actually more integrated? have their lives improved? and has something tangible been done – or will it be done – to address the concerns the non-roma population still has in various parts of the eu?
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, unlike many people in this chamber i have actually been to a roma camp in bulgaria. that is me in a place called fakulteta, which has up to 50 000 people living in slums in a square mile. and i saw conditions there of poverty and deprivation that one rarely sees outside sub-saharan africa. if i were forced to live like this, and you were forced to live this, you would seize any chance to leave, and that is what many will do on 1 january next year and many will be headed to the uk. some are coming to do honest work, we know that, but some will not. sadly there are gangmasters within the roma community who force children to work as everything such as pickpockets and prostitutes. this is already happening in other european countries and in january it will happen in the uk as well. so, centuries after social reformers in britain stopped child prostitution and put a stop to dickensian pickpocket gangs, the eu will foist them upon us once again. there will be a backlash, trust me, and our government will not and cannot do anything about it because of the european union’s laws. the best way, i believe, to help these people is not to export them round europe: it is for their own national governments to do what our people did a long time ago and take the fight to child abusers who force them to work as career criminals. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – of course i think this obligation is completely wrong. we have 22 % of our own young people in the uk out of work. that is a million people unemployed. all that will happen when we open up the borders on 1 january 2014 to 29 million more people is that they will saturate the job market. it is about economics, it is nothing to do with racism and, quite frankly, we are only a small island and we cannot cope as it is.
mr president, the swedish situation was of course the stimulus for this debate, but clearly the debate has turned to all the national positions – hungary, france and of course the fears expressed around my own country – and it illustrates one clear point: that the roma people who are being tracked are all european citizens, people who reside in the eu and have the right to respect for private life enshrined in article 8 of the european charter of human rights. that is the crux of this matter. they are european citizens. that is why we must direct our efforts here in this chamber to the questions that we have put to the commission on discrimination and to the council to investigate the situation in sweden and elsewhere. but ultimately this is an opportunity yet again for us to redouble our efforts on the european strategy for roma integration, to understand, in a sophisticated way now, that we have got logjams in this strategy, that we have heard about the budgetary and other restrictions, and that we need to make sure that we understand that the strategy is not working, why it is not working, and how we need to make it work to ensure that these problems are dealt with.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i look forward to hearing the views of members of this house on this very important issue during the course of this afternoon’s debate. i will be brief in my remarks not least since the council has not addressed the specific issue of right-wing extremism. however, ministers have had an opportunity on several occasions, most recently in may this year, to underline the importance of respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. ministers also had an informal exchange of views in january on the importance of tackling intolerance, racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia and homophobia. the spread of extreme forms of intolerance and the recent increase in the number of far-right parties is obviously a source of concern to all of us. intolerance and excessive nationalism were the cause of endemic conflict in europe over the last few hundred years and led directly to the destructive wars of the 20th century. the european union owes its origins to those of vision who saw that the ending of conflict on this continent would depend first and foremost on overcoming extreme nationalism. they sought to put in place structures which would enable nation states to work together and cooperate. that is why we are here. it is why you are elected. right-wing extremism has no place in modern europe. it threatens the fabric of our societies. it promotes and feeds on racism and xenophobia and it constitutes a challenge to the democratic process. but let me state this: all political extremism is unacceptable, be it left or right-wing. we have grown to consider that in europe such extremism is something of the past. where it has existed it has had difficulty gaining any serious level of support. extremist parties were, thankfully, marginal to our political life; but there is no doubt that right-wing extremism is on the increase. we can only speculate as to the reasons why. obviously the financial and economic crisis has played a role. for those who see their livelihoods threatened and their jobs either at risk or lost entirely, there may be an easy temptation to put the blame on others, not least on those of different backgrounds, faith or orientations. finding such a scapegoat is never difficult, but it is always wrong. there are several ways in which we can respond to this trend. firstly, as far as extreme political parties are concerned, these are a matter first and foremost for each and every individual member state. where action is required, it is for member states to do so within the framework of their own constitutional arrangements and, where it concerns the activities of extreme groups, their own national legislation. it is not for the council to prescribe a single response, a single solution or a single recipe. secondly, we should at the european level speak out against right-wing extremism and, in particular where this manifests itself in racist or xenophobic views, we are all obliged to respect the basic values on which the european union is founded and that should not be simply a passive act. we need to challenge extremist views and actions which risk undermining those values. as edmund burke said over 200 years ago, the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. clearly we must not let up on our action to ensure that we emerge stronger and more prosperous from the economic crisis. unemployment can help foster extremist views. the social context of the current crisis is therefore critical to returning to a consensual and harmonious society where we recognise and strive for a common good. as we all know, right-wing extremism very often comes together with hate speech and hate crimes, or is followed by these phenomena. the fundamental rights agency, in cooperation with the lithuanian presidency of the eu council, is organising a fundamental rights conference entitled ‘combating hate crime in the eu’ on 12-13 november in vilnius, later on this year. the fundamental rights conference will invite decision-makers and practitioners to explore effective strategies to combat hate crime through legal and policy measures at national as well as at eu level. it would not be appropriate for me to look at specific cases or incidents related to this debate. we all share a duty to stand up against extremism in whatever form and wherever it occurs. we need to show that racist views and hate crimes are not only never justified but never pay. we must speak out together and defend the values on which the european union is founded and never again allow political extremism to gain a foothold on our continent.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, after these very deep and wise words from the presidency, i can only add that i absolutely agree with what has been underlined. the rise of extremism and populism is an enormous concern for the eu as a whole, because it fuels racism, xenophobia, homophobia and all forms of intolerance. it affects human rights, it endangers the freedom of movement within the eu. remember the commission’s third annual report on the application of the charter of fundamental rights, where we took stock of the rising intolerance in the eu? because in 2012 we witnessed a number of serious incidents of racism and xenophobia, including racist and xenophobic hate speech by opinion leaders – so these are not just accidents, but opinion leaders who should be an example to their citizens. the commission has always condemned any manifestation of racism and xenophobia as well as any other form of intolerance, because they are incompatible with the values and principles on which the union is founded; and let me say in that context that i was so unhappy, so sorry, when i heard the racist attacks directed against the italian minister of integration, mrs cécile kyenge. ladies and gentlemen, we do have laws in place. i am referring to the council framework decision on racism and xenophobia. the transposition date was 28 november 2010, which means that all member states are now obliged to sanction with criminal penalties intentional public incitement to violence and hatred based on race, colour, descent, religion, or ethnic or national origin. but laws need to be enforced. they need to be implemented in practice in order to make a difference. in order to see if that is the case, the commission will present a report on the member states’ compliance with the provisions of the framework decision by the end of this year. but let me make clear that the investigation of individual situations of racism or xenophobia, the application of national laws transposing the framework decision, belongs to national authorities. in particular, it is for national courts to determine, according to the circumstances and context, whether a situation represents an incitement to violence or hatred. you know that in addition to legislation, the commission also lends its support to activities to prevent acts of intolerance from happening in the first place. in the next multiannual financial framework, such activities will be promoted through the rights, equality and citizenship programme. the commission most of all supports activities aimed at preserving the memory of the mass violations of human rights during the period of nazism and stalinism. under the new citizenship programme, i have increased the amount of financial support for remembrance projects and i hope that the european parliament and the council will agree with this proposal. we also support work aimed at raising awareness on the rights and obligations of citizens, and provide assistance for capacity building through national equality bodies. moreover, we facilitate the exchange of good practices and support the collection and dissemination of data. a key role is played by the fundamental rights agency. this year the agency has published a survey providing valuable information on lgbt people’s experiences of discrimination, hate speech and hate crime and we will soon publish another one on anti-semitism. the rise of extremism and populism is a common concern to the whole of the eu because it leads to racism, to the negation of the human being, to all forms of intolerance, and it endangers the acceptance of other citizens and freedom of movement. it also endangers the values on which our union is based, which means it simply destroys our societies. it destroys our europe. that is why we all, collectively and individually, have the responsibility to fight it without compromise.
blue-card question. – you have used that word ‘extremism’ several times. do you not think the belgian government that banned vlaams blok was an extremist government? the german government that used fabricated evidence to try to ban a political party, is that not an extremist party? what about commissar reding who wants to imprison people for expressing opinions? is she not an extremist?
madam president, i would question the title of this debate about the rise of right-wing extremism in europe. surely it should be about ‘extremism’. commissioner reding, i know your desire for equality, maybe you can tell us when we are going to debate ‘left-wing’ extremism, just in the name of equality. a key dynamic in politics is the relationship between the centre and the periphery. the centre, where power lies, in a truly democratic society is in a constant state of flux as opinion, debate and events filter to the centre and shift our values and priorities; this is very healthy. however, if those in power at the centre refuse to listen to the people whose concerns may be inconvenient, then by ignoring them they push them further out towards the periphery. they push them towards the extremes. extreme thought, extreme speech and, ultimately, extreme acts. it is no surprise to political observers in britain that the far right only ever takes seats from the left: our labour party, not the conservative party. when prime minister gordon brown infamously labelled the respectable labour voter, gillian duffy, as a bigot – simply for expressing genuine concerns about immigration and economic policy that differed to his own – he became a recruiting sergeant for extremists. the blame for the rise of extremism lies at the feet of the political class that refuses to take account of the opinions and concerns of the electorate and the people to whom they should be accountable.
blue-card question. – madam president, i hold no brief for golden dawn, i have even less time for people who use political violence. but i would like to know from mr aguilar, who i believe has a legal background, has the system in greece changed around, so that you are now guilty until proven innocent?
madam president, i think the last debate on the subject of the roma people really sums up why we are in the situation whereby extremism is on the march. people like the unelected commissioner here just live on another planet. they are out of touch with public opinion. your two flagship policies – the single currency and open borders – are creating a perfect breeding ground for the far right. take greece for example. the result of them being trapped in a catastrophic currency union has led to the rise of golden dawn. the austerity measures imposed by the european union have driven large numbers of people in the cradle of democracy into the arms of extremists. yet you still do not listen. if you want to know why the far right are on the march right across europe, commissioner, you have to do nothing else but look in the mirror.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this resolution does two things: it repeats our decade-long criticism of the us-led extraordinary rendition programme of kidnapping, secret and illegal imprisonment and torture, and european countries’ complicity in that programme. it was in fact ten years ago last month that i organised the first hearing in the european parliament on guantánamo – plus ça change. i will come back to the defective legal thinking which underpinned the wrong path that the us and the european allies took. but just for a moment i want to focus on the second thing the resolution does, which is to demand accountability at national level, including my country the uk, and to call for the eu institutions – the commission and council – to assist in that process by monitoring and supporting national accountability exercises. no, minister – if i may say so to the lithuanian presidency – this does not fall outside the remit of the eu or the council. why else do we have human rights clauses in eu treaties or the charter? what is the point of declarations that counter-terrorism operations must respect human rights and humanitarian law, when you will not follow up – nationally or at european level – on a huge body of evidence? it is almost time to drop the ‘alleged’ because there is so much evidence that these laws have been breached – our own and international laws. getting back to the international legal framework, the fact is that, with its war on terror, the us has tried to subvert these long-standing international norms. under president obama, the terminology has shifted from ‘war on terror’ just to ‘war’. the fact is that the us still asserts an exclusive right to define the war and to make up its rules. it is under the global war paradigm that the us last weekend snatched abu anas al-libi off the streets of tripoli. it is under the same pretext that drone strikes are used for so-called targeted killings. indeed, guantánamo is still open, and contains people who have never been charged, let alone tried. even if eu institutions will not help call member states to account for torture and disappearances, they should take the lead in asserting the true nature and proper application of international law. as vice-chair of parliament’s delegation for relations with the united states i want the best for america. when your best friend goes off the rails you try to pull them back on, not push them further off. meps are trying to do that; the commission and council are not.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, of course the accusations levelled at member states cannot be ignored. they must be treated with the full seriousness they deserve. torture and inhumane treatment are not, and can never be, the tools on which we can build and preserve a strong and free society. my own country, the united kingdom, is one of the countries against whom these allegations have been levelled, a country whose long-established principles are freedom and fairness under the rule of law. i welcome the opportunity of an investigation in order to reinstate the reputation of our security services, which is currently tarnished. however, such an investigation must be carried out by an established process – a judicial inquiry if necessary – which is fully independent and held and investigated at member state level. but i do not believe it is for this parliament to set demands on how these inquiries are conducted. unfortunately, here, accusations are too often treated like facts and recommendations are treated like condemnations. this must stop, if the credibility of this place is to be preserved. once again, this parliament wishes the european union to play a bigger role in the oversight of the intelligence community as a whole, but i would question: why? how would it carry out such a role in a sensible, credible and rational way? i have no idea, and nor do others who apply objectivity and fairness to this issue.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, if people have been illegally transported across european borders by the cia, then that is wrong. every criminal suspect is entitled to open justice and a fair trial. however, this oral question is not about that. it is about asking the commission to introduce more measures to bring national security services under its control. the public can read more about this plan in the commission’s own document entitled ‘european security strategy: a secure europe in a better world’, published as part of the stockholm programme. these proposals are just another step along the road to creating a united states of europe. just as the eu now has its own foreign policy and is taking control of member states’ armed forces, so it needs control of their security services to complete the picture. the eu does not yet have the power to do that and we must ensure that it never does.
blue-card question. – mr president, i was impressed by the generosity of the lady about these 50 million. i wonder how many she is prepared to house in her own home – or are the poor and homeless in europe supposed to make way for them and remain poor and homeless?
mr president, after what we have heard, just let us remind ourselves that when people are fleeing persecution they do so, yes, because some are trafficked to find work in the european union, but some because they are fleeing torture and persecution. let us remind marine le pen that the vast majority of the world’s asylum seekers are pouring into developing countries and neighbouring countries, vastly outnumbering the number of refugees and asylum seekers that come into the european union. some people need reminding of this simple fact. commissioner, you mentioned that there is a vast frontex operation since the gha council and you spoke very movingly about what you saw in lampedusa. this is a problem for the people of italy and lampedusa. but it is also, as we can all witness now, a problem for this chamber because since the late 1980s we have been assembling a common european asylum policy here in parliament – along with the commission, because nobody should point a figure at the commission. and yes, some people opt out of it. but the mediterranean has been vast before this tragedy, yet frontex and its assets have been meagre. the asylum support office has not been adequately funded, the distribution key has not been in place, burden-sharing has not been happening – and that is because of the council. if all procedures and reception conditions were in place, we would have had a comprehensive asylum policy, and a package that would have created a balanced asylum policy would now be in place. we would not have had this sticking plaster to deal with a tragedy, a terrible tragedy; and we would not have these reactions now which we have to put in place. so let us have now these emergency reactions at the next european council; we call for this to be a priority. and let us then have the long-term policies put in place that we have been asking for in this parliament and yes, the commission have been supportive.
madam president, the loss of life among illegal migrants in the mediterranean is of course an appalling tragedy. improving the rapidity of response to accidents is necessary, but of course is only part of the solution. the main answer is to remove the incentive for them to travel to europe. we must replace the policy of allowing most of these people to stay with a policy of allowing none of them to stay. when that message gets through to would-be migrants, they will stop taking the risk. repatriation of illegals really will save lives. the architects of the eu asylum policies, including people in this house, are directly and personally responsible for deaths in the mediterranean. they should really hang their heads in shame. the logical extension of non-refoulement is a recipe for allowing all third world illegal migrants to stay. of course, the real unspoken migratory policy of the eu is to cleanse ethnically the indigenous populations of europe and replace them with people from the third world. when that happens, parts of europe become outposts of the third world.
madam president, for 400 years, europe was a continent of net emigration as our people fled poverty and pollution and persecution. for 50 years we have seen net immigration as others have done the same. we have heard some quite raw politics in this debate. there are some on the left who want continued barriers against imports, leaving the poor with little choice but to vote with their feet, and some on the right who want a fortress europe, shutting out with force or with fences those of darker skin or the muslim faith. the truth is that with a shrinking population our union needs immigrants to maintain our standards of living, and to control the flow of such immigrants we need open trade practices and generous aid schemes so that people in poor countries can prosper at home. until we do that, tragedies like the drownings off lampedusa will continue. i commend the commissioner on what the commission is doing, but i urge her to intervene with the member states to change our policy to stop the pressure on so many people to leave their home countries.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, in the previous debate, commissioner malmström, if i heard her correctly, said that she wanted to open up more legal avenues for migration into europe. mrs malmström, why do you not go to countries such as greece, italy, spain, france and great britain and ask ordinary people how they feel about that? i imagine that the vast majority would tell you that they are ‘immigrationed out’ and that they actually want fewer – not more – waves of people coming to their country. maybe you should try stepping outside of the brussels ideological bubble and, dare i use the term, show some solidarity with the ordinary working people of europe. you talk here about border controls, but you have no intention whatsoever of actually trying to control immigration. britain is swamped by continual waves of immigration from outside and inside the european union and the only way we can control that is to leave the european union.
madam president, this proposal is very important for europe, for the security of its borders and for the prevention of unnecessary and tragic loss of life at sea. the uk has massive experience and expertise in naval activity and in intelligence-sharing. it is therefore rather disappointing to me that my spanish friends in the ppe group are attempting to exclude the uk from this measure in order to make a territorial point. i hope this house and those friends themselves realise that the uk’s valuable contribution and involvement in the future of eurosur is more important than any temporary disagreements that we may have between our two states.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i am glad we have the opportunity to discuss this issue today. i would like to ask the commissioner and this parliament whether they honestly think that threatening to suspend important anti-terror legislation is really in the best interests of the people of europe as a whole. security officials have called the leaking of us national security agency documents by edward snowden ‘the greatest threat to western security in history’. the head of mi5 in the uk has today called the leaks ‘a gift to terrorists’, and yet here we are talking about delivering another gift to those who pose a very real and constant threat to europe’s safety. it is absolutely ridiculous. members of this house often claim to speak for all european citizens, but i wish to speak for those who want to live in a europe which is safe and secure for them and their families. the appropriate authority should, by all means, investigate breaches of european citizens’ data protection rules. this parliament can provide better protection for european citizens and can strengthen data protection. but let us do so in a way which involves gathering hard facts, not reckless decision-making. if this parliament wants the powers it claims it is entitled to, then it needs to learn to be more responsible. no one is denying that we are here to protect citizens’ rights and freedoms, but i am not prepared to do that by risking their safety and their lives. i will certainly not be supporting any parliamentary action that takes such an unmeasured and irresponsible view of such an incredibly important issue, thereby seriously prejudicing our international relations and world security. or are we going to suspend all or any of our agreements whenever a newspaper or a renegade makes an allegation? what a way to run europe! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am quite prepared to say this to you: i believe that the appropriate authority should always investigate allegations. i have no problem with that at all. what i have a problem with is the incredibly prejudiced and biased approach that is taken when an allegation is made, i.e. condemning and concluding that a party or an agency or a country should be convicted before any real evidence of any value whatsoever has been seen. that appears to be more and more the case in this parliament and i am afraid to say, as far as i am concerned, i think it is unworthy and unacceptable.
madam president, my colleague mrs sippel set out many of the concerns within my group. let me just begin with the issue of the inquiry in the investigation which mr voss has raised. i raised within the inquiry the issue of the cybercrime unit of europol, and i understand that rob wainwright has said that intelligence breaches can be investigated. the council is not here but, if that is the case, then at least one member state should request such an investigation. here lies the problem. mr kirkhope is talking about the wider existential question of whether we investigate the snowden leaks at all. that can be separated from this immediate question of whether we can investigate exactly what is going on with an extremely valuable swift agreement. i do not disagree with what mr voss has said. the point is that we do not know exactly what is happening because in the inquiry nobody is there on oath – we just have the cooperation of witnesses. so we are relying on you, commissioner, to get as many answers as possible, and then we will rely on that investigation to see what to do in our political decision on suspension or cancellation. we do not have the powers within the european parliament or as meps to cancel that agreement. i understand that it is a majority decision within the council, and that is the mechanism. i think mrs in ‘t veld is right. we have future powers in terms of our consent procedure for future agreements – this is, ultimately, the political leverage we have. so that is the outcome of this whole situation. for my group, i just want to repeat, without going into a great amount of detail, that swift is an extremely important agreement for us and our group. we negotiated it in this parliament, we take it seriously, we understand its security implications and we take all of that seriously. for that reason we want the most detailed investigation possible. we will assess it, then we will make an assessment and a political decision on a temporary suspension and then a renegotiation. we will not cancel this just on a whim. it is a serious decision we have to make but, at the end of the day, it is a political decision.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is always good to see you in the chair when we are discussing fundamental values. can i associate myself absolutely with the opening statement by ms joly and by mr svensson. there is absolutely no place in any of our internal activities or our external activities for caste-based discrimination and i hope today the european parliament will send a very strong message. dear commissioner, i know you are committed, i have listen to what you have said, but i have to come to the conclusion that we are failing. if we have undertaken all of this work, if we have all of these instruments, and 220 million people are still discriminated against solely on the basis of their caste, we are failing. therefore, my group and others insist that in all of our external association agreements and trade agreements there should be a non-negotiable human rights clause and, where appropriate, a non-discrimination based on caste clause. because, quite frankly, when we buy those shirts from bangladesh, when we buy from pakistan and india, when we trade on the backs of the poorest, we impoverish them. and when we trade on the backs of those who are being discriminated against, we too discriminate against them and weaken them, and we weaken every single international treaty we sign up to and undertake. girls, women, are subjected to slavery and abuse, purely because someone says they are untouchable and they belong to a different caste. towards the end of our mandate, i am proud that all of the groups have come together to say no, this will not continue, but can i say to the public, can i say to our eu citizens, this means looking at where we buy our goods, where we buy our shirts, our socks, our ties and our suits. if these countries do not apply international human rights standards and they discriminate on this scandalous basis of caste, then we individually should boycott them and not trade with them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i am speaking also as a trustee of solidarity network in the uk and chair of the delegation for south asia, which covers a number of the countries concerned. i obviously want to support what my colleagues have said about the need to oppose caste-based, descent-based discrimination and that no-one should have to change their faith to be accepted in society, no-one should be refused water in a disaster because of their caste and everyone should be able to benefit from education and use their talents. particularly, in the week when we celebrate international day of the girl child, i think this has a particular relevance for the dalits. we have seen recent legislation in nepal which has challenged discrimination. we have seen eu projects there which have made an enormous difference but, as people have said, unless this is taken up and becomes part of a real cultural shift, all we are doing is supporting some people. this is extremely valuable and shows what it is we are trying to do, but we need to have these rights entrenched, not just in the constitution, but in implementation in the law. we also need to look at our own member states. the uk has recently brought caste discrimination into its anti-discrimination legislation, but we are seeing deliberate moves by a particular home office minister to prevent the implementation of that change. so this is something we need to be aware of in our own countries, as well as in the values that we promote internationally.
mr president, i think this oral question is to be welcomed. this is not the first time we have raised in the european parliament this issue of caste-based discrimination, and very unfortunately it is unlikely to be the last. although i understand that we will not be able to change the situation overnight, i think we have to admit that the level of progress is really insufficient. we owe it to all these overlooked people, hundreds of millions of people, who suffer from discrimination every day. in bangladesh, for instance, caste-based discrimination affects both hindu and muslim populations. it is thought of very often just as a hindu issue but muslims and buddhists are also affected. in pakistan, dalits have limited access to equal and meaningful political participation. i think that is absolutely unacceptable and many of these people, of course, are also religious minorities at the same time, so they are doubly discriminated against. i am not asking the commission and the eeas today to export the european social model in a one-size-fits-all manner, but as a liberal i am asking us to export our values of democracy, freedom and human rights, because i do not think we should consider that to be imperialism in any form.
mr president, i am pleased to see this issue being addressed and i condemn the human rights violations committed against the estimated 260 million people worldwide suffering from caste-based discrimination. caste systems are unjust as they divide people into unequal and hierarchical social groups. those at the bottom are considered lesser human beings, impure and polluting to other caste groups. known as untouchables or dalits, they are often forcibly assigned the most dirty and most hazardous jobs and many are subjected to forced and bonded labour and are kept in severe poverty. without doubt, when relevant, there should be a caste-based discrimination clause in eu international trade agreements and association agreements. the commission should also take steps to combat this discrimination within europe’s borders, as no community anywhere should be exempt from equality legislation and from human rights protection.
author. − mr president, it is interesting that this law in russia started in 2006, but the responsibility for it must be taken by the thatcher government which introduced such a law in 1987. it came into force in 1988. to quote another bisexual, shakespeare, it is a brilliant demonstration that ‘the evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interred with their bones’. in 2011, building on that 2006 law, we saw a federal law adopted. then last year a federal law was adopted called the foreign agents law. this also brings the suppression, not only of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and their ngos, but of other human rights defenders, lgbti people and other minorities, and it brings the suppression and oppression to new heights. under the foreign agents law, nine organisations are currently under legal charges, 18 received official orders to eliminate violations by registering as ‘foreign agents’ and 53 organisations received warnings not to violate the law. these legal restrictions are coupled with harassment, intimidation of human rights defenders and civil society representatives. harassment: they are stigmatised as enemies of russia and its traditional values – whatever they may be – when they defend the rights of ethnic minorities, migrants and ltbt people. but let me say that these laws do not reflect decent russian values. they reflect putin’s ever-tighter hand of steel. it is a dictatorial style in which opposition voices are silenced and minorities shunned. the russian government therefore needs to respect its human rights obligations, including the european convention on human rights. but, commissioner, let me call on yourselves, the college and the external action service to do two things. firstly, to continue monitoring developments in russia using the lgbt guidelines and engage in dialogue often and without concession – and this includes at political summits and human rights consultations and maybe even winter olympics. secondly, i would like the commission to consider delaying visa liberalisation with the russian federation. we must not give them gifts on the back of those who are being discriminated against and suppressed. i look forward to your answers to those two specific calls.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, many of us from across the political divide watched with delight as the iron curtain came down and the former countries of the soviet union embraced freedom. then ten years ago mikhail khodorkovsky was imprisoned. he has been in jail ever since, a victim of selective justice. his case, and that is why i raised it, was illustrative of a serious and sustained decline in the rule of law and human rights in russia, whose government has effectively created an enemy of all those who simply want to live their lives in peace without harming anyone. violent attacks on gay men, ethnic minorities and others are regrettably not limited to russia, but the rhetoric which has emanated from the russian government in recent months seemingly legitimises this violence which, as we know, has rocketed since the discriminatory anti-lgbt legislation was passed by the duma. we know russian society clearly attaches much importance to what its leaders call ‘traditional family values’. but they do not have the right in a free and democratic society, and as members of the council of europe, to make the lives of gay people a living hell, by prohibiting access to vital support networks and stifling expressions of identity. i therefore join all colleagues in this house in seeking to know what the european union has done to raise these fundamental questions of human rights and the rule of law with the russian authorities. i hear what commissioner malmström has said: nobody here doubts the importance of our strategic, commercial, political and security relations with russia; but we have a duty to speak out against injustices perpetrated on some of the most vulnerable members of society.
mr president, we have heard from the commissioner that there ought to be respect for the rule of law in russia, that people should not be condemned without a distinct breach of the law established by the ordinary courts. but we heard only yesterday from the chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, no less, that people accused of an undoubtedly horrific murder in greece could be regarded as guilty before any trial. even people perceived as being beyond the pale must be treated with respect for the rule of law. before we point the finger at russia, members of this parliament should look into their own conduct. we have heard that russia is restricting freedom of expression. if it is, that will be reprehensible. however, many eu member states lock people up for expressing opinions that do not have any hint of violence. indeed, commissioner reding would like to go further and criminalise thought crime. i am sure that many members here have been speaking honesty and from the heart, but i believe that behind this debate is an agenda that has got very little to do with sexuality or freedom of expression: it is about russia’s foreign policy.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first and foremost i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, professor panayotov, and his co-rapporteurs on their thorough work on the commission’s proposal to ban the use of cadmium in cordless power tool batteries. in addition to the support for our basic proposal, the commission welcomes the provisions banning mercury in button cells and the progress made on the removability of batteries in electronic equipment. the final result is good news for the environment and human health. the bans on cadmium and mercury are further steps towards the long-term goal of a non-toxic environment which the council and parliament have supported in the context of the seventh environmental action programme. they should act as a spur for innovation in the search for safer alternatives. the provision on the removability of batteries will help to improve the design of products, cutting waste and boosting the opportunities for re-use and recycling. the commission has made it clear that we fully support the outcome as far as the substance is concerned. on some procedural issues, changes introduced to the commission’s proposal during the deliberations at first reading require us to make three declarations. they concern the use of the no-opinion clause for the adoption of implementing acts; the mandatory consultation of stakeholders in preparation of delegated acts; and the publication of a consolidated version of the directive. we will pass the full text of these declarations to the plenary records unit for publication in the record.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i welcome the final agreement on the batteries directive, although i would have preferred a longer transition date for the cadmium exemption. the compromise of 31 december 2016 is acceptable when viewed in the light of the additional agreement which states that existing stocks already placed on the market can be sold until all stocks are exhausted. this is particularly important for small smes, which would already be adversely affected by the draconian removal of cadmium accumulators. the decision to ban mercury button cells is a further step towards reaching the targets of the un minamata convention on banning most uses of mercury by 2020. again, the allowances for selling stocks until they are exhausted are particularly welcome and will permit businesses to adapt to new rules. the exemption for mercury cells in hearing aids is very sensible and i support this exemption. the text that has emerged from the trialogue is largely improved and i can support the adoption of this directive.
mr president, you have passed on but i would like to put on record my thanks to all of those members, from many political groups, who supported my proposal to nominate malala yousafzai for the sakharov prize. this remarkable teenager, with her weapons of books and pens, has put the taliban to shame. the nomination was taken up by the political groups. her argument that young girls have a right to education is one that deserves our support. i am grateful to the conference of presidents for pointing out that it will inspire not only malala but the millions of children denied the right to schooling and the self-development it brings.
mr president, this is on a point of order which i will come to, but as a member representing the west midlands region of the united kingdom where malala now resides and where she was treated at the queen elizabeth hospital in birmingham, i congratulate this remarkable young woman who is deserving of this prize. my point of order is quite significant. it is incredibly disappointing that you disrespected this chamber and that the announcement was not made here live. it was announced on twitter 30 minutes ago. i think you mr president have disrespected this chamber by announcing it on twitter before doing so in this chamber. (mixed reactions)
in writing. − much as i am sympathetic to the plight of jordan, i voted against this recommendation because my party believes that the uk should remain independent from intervention at this level whilst handling foreign affairs as a sovereign nation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because jordan has been under extra economic and social problems because of the syrian civil war. i support the report’s calls to grant consent to the conclusion of a framework agreement between the eu and jordan which would ensure that jordan received all support possible within the framework of established union programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i support the conclusion of a framework agreement to aid jordan in view of its humanitarian responsibilities towards syrian refugees and its fragile political and economic stability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report today and i welcome this opportunity for parliament to evaluate, and make recommendations on, how the eu can reinforce its ties with jordan, including by considering how we can strengthen relations in areas such as economic development and trade.
in writing. − i have long been a supporter of jordan, a key middle eastern country with a progressive and moderate leadership. under king abdullah, it has shown a real desire to improve the situation with regard to human rights and quality of life for its citizens, and to build a solid democracy. in its dealings with neighbours, jordan has also demonstrated that it can play a big role in developing peace in the region. there is much we can do to support jordan within the framework of the euro-mediterranean agreement and the wider european neighbourhood policy; i welcome the recommendations, in particular, to enhance trade and economic links, and to support the partnership and reform spring programme. of course, echoing this week’s discussion of syrian refugees, jordan must also be helped in every way possible to cope with a massive, and potentially highly destabilising, influx of refugees fleeing that brutal civil war. jordan’s immense political and economic progress must not be jeopardised by the volatility of the region, and we should all back attempts to consolidate our dialogue and partnership with it as well as the material support we provide.
mr president, it is very important – and we all know this – that member states cooperate on these issues. it is also important that we move away from this idea that one size fits all. for this reason, i and members of my group supported the measures here because it is all about cooperation, it is all about sharing data, firstly to protect our own borders but secondly to make sure we avoid a repeat of the tragedies that we have seen when people try to get in illegally or with smuggling. at the same time, we must make sure that when sharing data we get the right balance between security, civil liberties and individual liberty. let us make sure that we continue to use this model of cooperation. at the same time, let us make sure that we do not impinge on the civil liberties of citizens within the eu, but also citizens from non-eu countries coming into the eu.
mr president, the united kingdom, of course, is not a member of the schengen zone and i am glad to say now has no intention of joining. what was once an eccentric position of opposing it has now become uniform among all the mainstream parties. nonetheless, we want the system to work. we of course wish our friends and neighbours who are in the system every success with it. i cannot help noticing a structural problem, which is what we might call the tragedy of the commons. when you remove internal border checks you disincentivise countries in certain geographical locations from properly policing the system. if somebody arrives in greece and you can see that he has travel documents, that his final destination is somewhere else, you have less incentive properly to police the border than you would have done if you still had a system of national control. i am all in favour of exchanging information, i am all in favour of collaboration, but we have to stop the system whereby people go for the weakest link in the chain: the country which they can most easily get into, which then makes one country’s problems everybody else’s.
in writing. − firstly, it is important to emphasise that the uk is not part of this scheme. moreover, we are against this directive as it supports a proposal, in the area of gathering and exchanging information on border security, which will give the commission further power over immigration control. whilst my party strongly advocates better control of uk borders, we believe britain should not cede any power over border security to other bodies within the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, along with my labour colleagues, i support the establishment of a european border surveillance system. i believe it is necessary in order to strengthen information exchange and operational cooperation between the national authorities of member states.
in writing. − although the uk is not a member of the schengen area, i support efforts to ensure that schengen functions as effectively as possible for those member states who participate in it. therefore i can support this report in its efforts to establish the eurosur system, which, we hope, will strengthen control of the schengen external borders and also improve cooperation between member state authorities in the field of border surveillance.
mr president, it is important as we seek developments in battery technology – not only in things such as cordless power tools, but also some of the bigger projects that we are looking at such as electric cars and other electrically powered material – that we make sure, while we are improving these battery technologies, also to think about the impact on the environment. today we have voted to remove some of the exemptions, to make sure, as we go forward, that we no longer see these dangerous materials. but one of the pleas i would make is that, as we look to increase battery technology, sometimes we are not looking in the right place. let us take the example of electric cars. we keep thinking about whether we can improve the storage of batteries in electric cars all the time. maybe what we should be looking at is a standard for interchangeable batteries, so that instead of going to a petrol station to put petrol in your car, you can exchange batteries simply at a petrol station, thereby replacing petrol cars with electric cars. let us look at that as well.
mr president, even the most ideological libertarian accepts the case for some regulation where there are externalities involving environmental degradation, but there is a question of proportionality. do we really need the full force of eu law regulating, in minute detail, what kind of batteries we use for every kind of device? it is a basic rule of this kind of regulation that it almost always has unintended consequences and that very often those consequences are worse than the problem it was intended to solve. it is micromanagement and excessive regulation of this kind that has led to europe as a whole depleting its batteries. we are run down. we have run out of actual capital and human capital and enterprise. we are running on low and the time is fast approaching when we conk out altogether.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal as my party believes that the existing batteries directive prohibits the placing on the market of portable batteries and accumulators, including those incorporated in devices or products, which contain more than 0.002% of cadmium by weight, with exceptions for certain categories of products. we believe the existing provision is more than sufficient to deal with this issue and that further eu legislation is not needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that we should try and make batteries as safe as possible for both the environment and consumers. the envi report expanded exisitng legislation from 2006 to also include a phase-out of mercury in button cell batteries. alternatives exist for both mercury and cadmium batteries which are better for the environment and health (cadmium and mercury are both carcinogenic and highly toxic).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, as mercury and cadmium are carginogenic and highly toxic, and alternatives exist to both.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement on amending the batteries directive of 2006. i support the move to end the exemptions previously given to batteries for cordless power tools and button cells containing low levels of mercury. i hope this agreement will now ensure that, in the development of batteries, greater account is taken of environmental concerns, and batteries become safer for consumers.
mr president, there is a fine balance to be observed in all of these questions between freedom and security, and the national governments are well aware of the difficulty of that task. but in this resolution the european parliament has not observed any balance at all. it has come blundering through, motivated not by a proportionate reaction to an identified problem, but by a starting proposition that the united states is in the wrong. i think members have been watching that episode of borgen too often – the one about the illegal transportation in greenland – and they now imagine themselves being the good guy standing up for freedom against the wicked cia. these are difficult, complicated questions, but it is not the cia who are our enemies. it was not they who planted the london tube bombs or the atocha bombs. it is not they who have been killing eu citizens. it is possible to have decent protection for civil freedoms, for privacy, and at the same time to be allies of the democratic and free world in the defence of a way of life that is worth preserving.
in writing. − i am fully supportive of comprehensive inquiries into any alleged involvement by member states in the detention and transportation of prisoners in european countries by the cia. however, i am afraid that i could not vote in favour of this resolution, as i believe that such matters should, in the first place, be the responsibility of member states, with each member state able to carry out its own investigations before judgment is passed at eu or european parliament level.
mr president, when the prüm treaty was extended from the seven member states to the rest of the eu, there were some concerns expressed at the time. first of all, it was seen as a sleight of hand by the previous labour government, which had not stood up for the uk concerns over this, particularly since we seemed to have the largest fingerprint, driver licence and dna databases in europe and we were going to start sharing that information with the other member states, and with law enforcement agencies in countries where we were not sure that they had the ability or the capacity to reciprocate when we wished. the reason we are discussing this, or have discussed it this week, is because some of those concerns have come true. it is quite clear that it is not working efficiently and that cooperative model is not working properly. therefore, i welcome any attempt to try and improve the efficiency of that cooperation between member states. we have to recognise the costs for those countries, including the united kingdom, where we have much larger databases than other member states. therefore, let us hope that we can, by having this discussion this week, make sure that cooperation works better in future.
mr president, there is a fundamental problem for the two common law countries in the eu when they integrate with the rest. it is nobody’s fault, nobody has set out to conspire to make this the case, it is simply that there is a fundamental incompatibility between the judicial model that pertains across most of the european union – the roman law or bonapartist model, where a law is written down from first principles and then applied to specific cases – and the rather anomalous, almost miraculous emergence of a system where it was never written down in abstract terms but the law grew like a coral, case by case, coming across new circumstances with each new judgment. quite understandably, the european union favours the prevalent model that pertains across most of its member states when it is drawing up its own corpus of jurisdiction. it is simply that this leaves us in the awkward position of always being the ones who have to change more than the other member states and that, fundamentally, is why we are always the odd ones out.
in writing. − i am not in favour of the creation or expansion of unified criminal law and criminal proceedings across the european union. measures such as this seem intent on creating a pan-european model of the fbi, which i am also against. in my view, law enforcement across borders is far more efficient via bilateral agreements.
in writing. − the effective operation of our law-enforcement bodies is of vital importance to our constituents, who wish to feel assured of their safety and security not only in their own member state but also when they are travelling within the eu. it is therefore important that this issue is considered here in parliament today. law enforcement is one of the areas in which it is particularly vital that we do not allow eu bureaucracy to complicate the use of the information-exchange instruments and tools that we have in place in the eu, or to make them more costly than necessary to operate.
mr president, caste discrimination is clearly unacceptable. it is a serious human rights violation and it is for this very reason that this parliament has been calling for action to address caste-based discrimination ever since 2007. however, we must, when addressing the issue, take into account the entrenched cultural and historical roots that caste has in certain societies, particularly in india, where we are up against 3 000 years in which the hindu caste system has been the basis of organising family and society. we must also not fail to recognise the great efforts that the indian government has made to tackle this problem, where we can point to a whole host of positive discrimination policies that are in place to address the historical injustices of caste discrimination, schemes which apply right up to the highest levels of government, including a former president who was a dalit. this report raises some very crucial issues but, ultimately, i am afraid that i cannot support some of the potentially disproportionate and heavy-handed remedies that are suggested, so i and my conservative colleagues abstained.
mr president, the phrase ‘all men are created equal’ is often taken as a fact, but actually, if you think about that phrase, it is discriminatory in itself because it excludes women. the other thing that we have to remember is that people are not created in equal circumstances and, when they are born to different social classes, or different levels of income, or different levels of intelligence, what we have to make sure is that people are not discriminated against. for this reason i am sure that politicians here across the parliament can accept that we should be fighting all forms of discrimination, including caste discrimination. but as my colleague from london charles tannock has said, it is important that we take account of deeply entrenched cultural issues and we make sure that we tread very carefully as we tackle some of these issues. the indian government has done much to tackle this area and i think it would be a mistake to include a caste-based discrimination clause in any trade agreements. let us trade, sign agreements and slowly encourage the removal of caste discrimination.
mr president, it is wonderful with all the economic problems in europe that we have time to start lecturing in quite precise terms south asia and east africa on aspects of caste discrimination, as though we had no other problems. actually, caste discrimination is a problem that is being eroded with every passing year by economic development and by the spread of education and capitalism. i think it was thomas babington macaulay, when he was briefly an indian administrator, who said that railways were the greatest destroyer of caste. that process of destruction has accelerated since indian independence because india – being a common-law-based democracy – elevates the individual over the state. that allows very little room for a system that imprisons people by circumstances of birth. as we have heard, it was a while ago that the republic had as its president a dalit. this is something that did not need lecturing from outside. we might be better advised to look at what happens when economic growth goes into reverse. it is not a problem the indians are having, but it is a problem we are about to have.
in writing. − this is an important issue, which should be covered by national legislation rather than by the eu. ideally it should be possible to introduce and support practical anti-discriminatory measures. it is rather disappointing that the eu is trying to promote itself as a protagonist in the fight against caste-based discrimination while in reality appearing to use sensitive issues such as this to reinforce its competence in foreign affairs.
in writing. − this resolution tackles a very important subject: the elimination of caste-based discrimination. i hope that, in debating the issue here today, parliament will contribute to forging a positive and supportive role for the eu in ongoing efforts to combat caste-discrimination worldwide.
in writing. − i supported today’s resolution calling for an end to all forms of discrimination with particular emphasis on caste-based discrimination. i echo the calls made for the commission to come forward with legislation for including provision against caste-based discrimination in trade and association agreements. stamping out discrimination within the eu and in its external activities is important, and we need to focus particularly on young women and girls who are vulnerable to sexual abuse, exploitation and slavery as a result of their caste. i welcome calls for a coordinated approach through the european external action service and the commission and for an action plan to help combat the problems of marginalisation and stigmatisation faced by many people on a daily basis.
in writing. − caste-based discrimination is a widespread and persistent problem that affects around 260 million people worldwide, including in the uk. victims face marginalisation, exclusion, limited access to basic services, slavery, sexual abuse and exploitation. i supported this resolution, co-authored by my labour colleague michael cashman, which calls for all forms of racism and discrimination, including caste discrimination, to be addressed with the same emphasis and determination throughout europe, and for caste to be recognised by the eu as a distinct area of discrimination. i would like to see appropriate support given to development and human-rights projects that work against caste discrimination. in addition, the commission should ensure the issue is raised regularly in dealings with our international partners, and especially with the governments of those states where caste discrimination is a particular problem. many of the agriculture, mining and garments industries that supply multinational and european companies use bonded labour by so-called ‘lower caste’ people, so labour meps are also calling for a caste-based discrimination clause to be included in all the eu’s trade and association agreements.
in writing. − this is another example of how citizens are fed up and disappointed with the eu: often, complainants resort to these petitions simply because it is seen as a way to protest. the committee on petitions has no real power to change anything and yet it continues to ask for more petitions – just in order to create more unnecessary legislation. individuals with genuine complaints should be able to have those complaints resolved at domestic level through sovereign parliaments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the suggested changes which aim to improve efficiency and save time for all parties, as well as improving citizens’ access to information.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that parliament has allocated time to debate the work of the committee on petitions today. it is right not only that we reflect on the important work carried out by the committee but also that we analyse how its work can be improved in future.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2012. i did so because i believe it is necessary to increase citizen participation in the eu decision-making process, which in turn will reinforce its legitimacy and accountability. i have noticed that fundamental rights remain a key subject of the petitions submitted, notably raising issues related to the rights of people with disabilities, children’s rights, property rights, the right of free movement and the protection of freedom of expression and privacy. i therefore believe that my vote today will compel the commission to take the necessary measures to oblige non-compliant member states to close the gap between national laws and eu citizens’ fundamental rights. i would also like to highlight the important contribution made by the solvit network in uncovering and resolving issues related to the implementation of internal market legislation, and i encourage the enhancement of this eu tool.
blue-card question. – i just want to pick up on something that you have been saying. you have talked very eloquently of the position of christians in syria, and in particular the town of maaloula. however, we need also in this parliament to be aware that christians are being attacked in other places, particularly in northern nigeria by the jihadist group boko haram. i would be keen to know your views on this and whether or not this parliament should be condemning these attacks as well, and not simply, as some colleagues have said, making them a social consequence of poverty.
author. − mr president, as ms cronberg has just said, we are witnessing iraq spiralling back towards civil war. when the americans left iraq, they said they were leaving behind a functioning democracy. what they have left behind is in fact a basket case. we see increasing violence and increasing discrimination against minorities, harassment against the christians, the shabaks, the turkmen. we have seen recently the appalling massacre in camp ashraf, people with their hands handcuffed behind their back, shot brutally in the back of the head, executed. the wounded, when they were taken to the clinic, executed there. seven hostages, including six women, kidnapped and there is no question at all that this was done by the iraqi forces under the instructions of prime minister nouri al-maliki. we know, as catherine ashton has said, and unhcr has said, these hostages are being held by maliki in baghdad. they must be released now or he must face the consequences.
blue-card question. – sir, you say that the british think that shale gas will help them. well, i can tell you that it will. but why should we trust the computer models that say the weather is going to get hotter and hotter years into the future, when those same computer models let us down so badly with local weather forecasts? three years ago we were told it was going to be a warm, mild, wet winter, and it was one of the coldest we have ever experienced. if those computer models cannot get it right six or eight weeks ahead, how are they going to get it right hundreds of years ahead?
member of the commission. − madam president, the proposed regulations represent an important step towards the further strengthening of the eu’s stance and its credibility in international trade relations. it does so in two ways. firstly, it preserves the fundamental principle of international trade law that countries should take corrective or retaliatory measures only when authorised or entitled to do so by an international dispute settlement body. secondly, the proposal provides for a much-needed unified procedure to streamline the enforcement of unions’ rights under international trade agreements. this is extremely important. when third countries do not respect agreed trade rules and are condemned for this, the eu must be able to enforce its rights swiftly. only then can we make sure that trade agreements work for the benefit of unions, businesses and workers. when construing this proposal, we should design a system where speedy, effective and practical measures can be taken. in our proposal we have focused on areas where we have already gained experience and where we are sufficiently confident about the design and implementation of the envisaged measures. it would be the commission’s intention to continue reflections with a view to completing over time the coverage of the regulation, as there are difficult and complex issues which need to be considered in full detail, including in the light of future experience with its practical application. madam president, we seem to agree on the need for the adoption of such an instrument and on the need to adopt it swiftly. in so doing, we should bear in mind the overall institutional balance provided for by the treaties and the agreed rules concerning the exercise of implementing powers. we should also aim at providing for rules which apply uniformly in all member states and which allow for a truly balanced pan-european solution. enforcement is, of course, an important part of the union’s exclusive common commercial policy, and i hope that the legislative process will be successfully concluded during this commission’s term.
madam president, the rapporteur protests in this document that there is no protectionist aim whatsoever, as though the word ‘protectionist’ might be one of those hate labels – like ‘racist’ – that are so popular with cosmopolitans. the rapporteur is using the word ‘protectionist’ in its strict economic sense, referring to tariff and non-tariff barriers to international trade. however, if he had been using it in a more general and everyday sense, his denial would be equally valid. the eu is emphatically not trying to protect europe’s interests, still less the interests of its member states. the objective is to follow the world trade organisation’s globalist agenda. retaliation would not be used to protect europe’s economic interests but to enforce observance of the wto’s globalist rules. the theory of international trade is that unrestricted trade makes the world as a whole richer. however, even if that were always the case, it would not follow that it made everybody or every country richer too. the free movement of goods and services, capital and labour – which is of course what all globalists, including eu globalists, are driving for – can only work if prices and wages are on undifferentiated scales. if that happens, the developed world, including europe, has everything to lose. the third world and emergent economies have everything to gain. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – the alternative would be that member states reverted to being sovereign countries and were capable of controlling trade as they wished, but a second best would at least be that europe looked after europe’s interests and did not try to drive towards a global free trade area.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by franck proust, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 111/2005 laying down rules for the monitoring of trade between the community and third countries in drug precursors (com(2012)0521 – c7-0316/2012 – 2012/0250(cod)) (a7-0167/2013).
mr president, an online search for information on ‘legal highs’ or drug precursors yields extremely worrying results. the first result would send me to a website to purchase legal highs, as would the second and the third. the fourth, however, is a tragic news report of a 22-year-old man from northern ireland who lost his life after taking a legal high. this situation cannot continue. unfortunately, many people assume that, if a substance is openly on sale, there are limited risks. however, families and people across europe last year would certainly disagree, as would the national poisons services of the national health authorities. member states are struggling to adopt legislation to outlaw these substances and are constantly one step behind. when substances are banned, it is not long before new dangerous substances take their place. while there is no doubt that there are legitimate industrial uses for drug precursors, it is essential that we have extremely robust monitoring of such trade. there is too much risk. unfortunately, the illegal drug market is hyper-responsive, flexible and innovative. we need to have legislation that enables us, similarly, to be reactive. i believe this report takes us further in that direction.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 23 october 2013.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 150).
mr president, ten years ago this week, mikhail khodorkovsky was arrested and imprisoned. in those ten years he has gone from being russia’s most successful businessman to being its most prominent political prisoner. he was jailed on politically-motivated charges because he financed an opposition party. but he worked for a vibrant civil society, he denounced corruption, and he nurtured democratic politics. today civil society is harassed and intimidated, corruption is rampant, and political parties are silenced. today’s reality in russia makes mikhail khodorkovsky’s vision more important than ever. russia needs reform. it needs enlightenment. it needs a change of direction. it needs men and women like mikhail khodorkovsky to bring the country towards its true place in europe. he should be released from prison immediately.
mr president, the subject of parallel trading in agricultural pesticides has become a paradise for lawyers. on the one hand, we have large corporations doing everything they can to stop entrepreneurs legally taking advantage of parallel trading. this can extend to using interesting techniques to persuade the relevant authorities to harass and intimidate such entrepreneurs in an attempt to force them out of business. a case in my constituency recently witnessed the health and safety executive raiding the premises of a parallel trader and confiscating the family photograph album of the managing director as evidence for wrongdoing. in their excitement, these raiders accidentally left their battle plan on the director’s desk. the document clearly implicated a large corporation. on the other hand, we have those individuals who use parallel trading as a front to place counterfeit agrichemicals on the market. these may well be sub-standard, causing serious problems for the purchaser and the undermining of confidence in the product in general. the 20-year patent limit is not working as intended. it is creating unintended consequences.
mr president, any impartial observer would agree that routine and systematic violations of human rights were both the causes and the consequences of the conflict in ireland. therefore, a robust bill of rights, containing permanent legal safeguards, is needed to act as insurance against a repeat of past wrongs, to halt the wrongs of the present, and to prevent new wrongs in the future. such a bill would provide all citizens with a practical tool they can use to hold public authorities to account, to challenge and, ultimately, to end discrimination, inequality and social injustice. this is not just a sinn féin demand. it was a solemn commitment entered into by parties in the good friday agreement and the st andrews review. the british and irish governments must now recognise that, by failing to honour the 15-year-old obligation to deliver a bill of rights, they are feeding societal tension and damaging the process of peace which the majority of people both desire and deserve.
mr president, this year marks the 100th anniversary of the uk carnegie trust, which is based in dunfermline in scotland. dunfermline was the birthplace of andrew carnegie, and it was there that the first carnegie library was founded. carnegie described libraries as ‘a cradle of democracy’. he believed that by empowering people through giving them free access to knowledge, he could transform lives, just as his life was transformed by having free access to a library in his youth. carnegie’s legacy can be found across the globe. if we want to future-proof libraries today, we have to take action across the european union to ensure that libraries are not left behind in the new digital world in which we exist. that is why i have launched my campaign for open knowledge to ensure improved and fair access to e-books in public libraries. in scotland, west dunbartonshire council is leading the way on the service it is providing not just in the uk, but across the eu. dumbarton library is itself a carnegie library. please support open knowledge for fair and improved access to e-books in our public libraries.
mr president, i would like to say, as a gay man standing here, that i feel absolutely positive about myself and other sexual minorities. i find staggering the number of men who have spoken tonight against the rights of women: the right of a woman to have full human rights and to decide what to do with her body, and the rights of young people, old people, men and women, to decide to explore their sexuality and to get information through education about such life-threatening chances. to deny a woman a right to abortion, as we saw in ireland and as we see elsewhere, can take the lives of women every single day in every single country in this world. parliament should therefore be absolutely clear that we define sexual and reproductive health rights as fundamental to this union, fundamental to our external policies, and fundamental to development. in the end, i respect religious belief, but not the right of you to impose your religion on others and thereby deny them their fundamental human rights.
rapporteur. − mr president, (inaudible as microphone is switched off) ... of my sahel report has not been easy, and i would like now to set the record straight on how this report came to exist in its current form. for a start, my position on the western sahara has been consistent over a number of years in terms of the right of the saharawi people to determine their own future in a free and fair manner acceptable to both sides. i take no views on what the final status of that territory should be, but when i first accepted the report, i understood that it was only to address the sahel. only subsequently did i learn that western sahara was always intended to form a part of the report and, indeed, was initially the sole subject of the report. after much wrangling and title changes, it was decided eventually that the title should only include the sahel, but that the western sahara would formally be included in the report’s remit. this decision was ratified by the enlarged bureaux of both the committee on foreign affairs and the subcommittee on human rights and in the conference of committee chairs and the conference of presidents. i suggest that, in the long run, this will prove to be no bad thing. western sahara is rarely appended to discussions on the sahel, but in geopolitical security and indeed human rights terms, this may well prove to have been an error. as the un secretary-general said in april, the conflict must be addressed as part of a broader strategy for the sahel. instability in western sahara is bad for the sahel and vice versa. as we often say in this parliament, human rights and security are both symbiotic and inextricable. reports have indicated to me that unrest in western sahara and in the tindouf camps is growing. a return to violence in any form would be catastrophic. leaving western sahara aside for a moment, the most pressing part of the report deals – naturally – with the grave disaster witnessed over the past two years in mali, which had previously seen relative peace and stability for a number of years. although we can be cautiously optimistic now that the worst of the crisis is over, it is not yet finished, with several hundreds of thousands of refugees and idps still waiting to return home and the fragile peace being jeopardised by sporadic skirmishes and suicide bombings. the long process of reconciliation must also begin with mali’s different communities. certainly, tuareg resentment over many decades must be addressed – not simply in mali itself, but across the whole sahel region. the reconciliation will not work without justice where it is due. mali must be seen as a prototype for the success of judicial institution-building and the rule of law. too often in the sahel region, war crimes and crimes against humanity have been met with institutional impunity. for this reason, the recent senegalese indictment of former chadian dictator hissène habré, and of course the icc’s investigation into malian war crimes, are to be greatly welcomed in this house. besides the immediate concerns in mali and the need to combat impunity, i have tried in the report to emphasise the need for a coherent strategy across the whole sahel region which combines an awareness of human rights with the imperative of boosting security, tackling jihadi radicalisation, clamping down on the trafficking of people, arms and drugs – particularly with regard to the ‘trafficking superhighway’ which bisects the sahel east-west and south-north – and, above all, improving the governance, accountability and legitimacy of state and regional institutions. this report makes a particular point of advocating the decentralisation of power and boosting the role of civil society. lastly, i have addressed the situation of women, children and minorities, including child labour, forced marriage, female genital mutilation and – especially in mauritania – the controversial issue of slavery, although this is of course extremely contentious and vigorously disputed by the mauritanian authorities. in short, the overriding theme of the report must be for the eu to work with local actors to focus on security, stability and human rights in synthesis. the eu already has a trading mission in mali from the csdp and a capability-building mission in niger, but human rights are markedly absent from the eu overall sahel strategy. this is an area where we can do more to help, and i hope that this report makes some contributions in so doing. if, similarly, we can bring voices together on western sahara and possibly influence the situation there in some small way, i hope that the report can be considered a success.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome dr liese’s report on ivd devices, which is being voted on later today. i believe that the considerable efforts made by the rapporteur and shadows, both on this and on the roth-behrendt report on medical devices, have resulted in legislation that will meet the needs of patients, healthcare professionals and device manufacturers. in relation to high-risk devices, i am pleased that we have now reached a workable and more streamlined procedure than was adopted in committee. authorising high-risk ivd devices to a scientific committee of the medical device coordination group will lead to safer devices and greater transparency without being overly bureaucratic. i hope parliament will adopt these provisions. unfortunately, there remain elements in the ivd text which are of concern for the liberal group. we cannot support amendments 72 or 271, which restrict genetic medicine unnecessarily. genetic tests range from those informing you of an increased risk of diabetes through to tests diagnosing an incurable, life-threatening illness such as huntington’s disease. i believe the rapporteur has created a framework that responds to the problems stemming from genetic tests for life-threatening conditions but has applied this framework to all genetic tests, which risks damaging current routine medical practice. genetic testing is not just about diagnosing serious inherited disorders. in cancer, for example, genetic screening can ascertain sensitivity to treatments, thus producing test results that are risk based rather than deterministic. for these reasons, as well as the fact that the eu has no legal power to regulate national medical practice, we oppose those amendments and support instead amendments 255 and 256, which seek solutions to the problem identified by the rapporteur without damaging developments in the field of genetic medicine. we also cannot accept amendments 42, 68 and 205, which could have a severe impact on public health – primarily sexual health – in europe by making all high-risk devices, including hiv tests, prescription only. this threatens public health policies in france and the uk which seek to make hiv tests easily available to high-risk groups. amendments 268 and 205 will do the same in various different ways. the alde group would like to support this report, but the concerns i have outlined may prevent us from doing so.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i am against this report because i am a libertarian. i want to let the people decide what is best for them, and several uk organisations agree with me, especially on amendment 40. the commission document is a real dog’s breakfast. it lists among the regulatory instruments everything from sticking plasters to x-ray machines, taking in elbow implants, lung implants, breast implants, even presumably the metal implant in my own left ankle, which is now all metal and pieces of plastic and i am perfectly okay. the impact of this will, of course, be in over-the-counter sales, and here we have small and medium-sized enterprises at risk. you are going to drive up unemployment at a time when we already have over-unemployment; many young people out of work, when they could be working in shops selling this sort of thing. it will only produce more red tape, and the smes will then suffer. and who picks up the bill? who picks up the pieces? why, the big pharma. they will make hay while the sun shines, when all the time everybody in the eu thinks it is all about them as individuals. it is not. it is all about the big companies.
blue-card question. – mr president, my blue card was actually for the previous speaker, but i am quite happy to put it to this one. i hear from that side of the house lots of talk about cuts and about how european citizens are going to suffer, but i hear nothing at all about the actual cuts that are required: the cuts in over-regulation and the cuts in the over-burdensome regulation that is imposed on our smes and our businesses. why is that side of the house not intent on joining with us in making sure that we bring about the sorts of cuts that are necessary to allow our smes to develop and to allow our businesses to move forward? why is all the concentration purely on populist lines in this way?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as shadow rapporteur on the parliament budget, i would first of all like to welcome the real-terms freeze in the european parliament budget, despite the one-off exceptional cost of the election year. i would like to thank ms hohlmeier and the other shadows for their hard work – both in the joint working group and in the conciliation – in achieving this very good result. the harsh reality, of course, is that we are living from day to day in budgetary terms. following the commitments agreed in the mff back in the boom times of 2007, it is now proving very difficult for member states laden with debt to honour the bills as they come in today. that is why we are rolling forward in this budget – as we have done in the two previous ones – an ever-growing number of bills that are unpaid due to cash-flow problems. indeed, the committee on budgets last week estimated that around eur 20 billion would be rolled forward from 2013 into 2014, even if dab 6 and dab 8 are agreed. i hope we can recognise that there are genuine difficulties on both sides of this debate and that we can work together with council to get an agreement on the mff, dab 6 and dab 8. we have seen the sorry state that the us got itself into over the budget. let us ensure that we in europe can find compromises and agreement, and that we can deliver for our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, council was absolutely right to propose a reduced budget for this parliament, and i want to say that i agree very strongly with my colleague mr karim’s very sensible call for a disciplined approach from this house. indeed, i think the rapporteurs have made a great effort to reflect that decreased budget, and we therefore support the general direction that they have taken. they have included a number of very sensible proposals. we specifically welcome the additional payments under heading 1a. this is just the kind of priority that the budget should be setting. jobs – particularly youth employment – and growth, research and development, and the digital economy are surely the most urgent priorities for this house. we have also seen in recent weeks how there is an urgent need for us to reinforce our efforts with frontex. these are the areas which have greatest potential to deliver results and to deliver value for money. but what i cannot do is support the commission’s proposals in general. i very strongly agree with the lithuanian presidency’s comments earlier. i think it is unwise for the commission to propose such slim margins and, indeed, to exceed other ceilings. this is always likely to expose the budget to the risk of deficit later in the year. furthermore, i think that relying on the flexibility instrument to overcome these shortfalls is equally unwise. flexibility instruments should be kept in reserve for genuinely unforeseen circumstances. to use it in this manner exposes the budget to risk. finally, we should remember that this 2014 budget is the year-one budget for the seven-year financial framework. how can we approve this budget without first gaining parliament’s prior approval for the whole of the mff? in order to do that, we need the urgent resolution of draft amending budgets 6 and 8. i call on parliament and council to resolve that situation urgently.
mr president, businesses – small, medium and large – have been contacting me in their droves about this much-vaunted eu investment, this mythical eu money that the pro-european argument says the uk is so heavily dependent on. let us put aside the argument that eu money actually does not exist. the fact is that there have been no calls, from 2000 onwards, for grants. this is because delays in agreeing budgets have led to indecision and confusion over such eu funds. civil society, the bedrock of democracy, is promised eu grants, but again there has been too much uncertainty and, more disastrously, inaction. i note, on the other hand, that the eu is not too slow when taking our money – our taxpayers’ money – but is too arrogant and negligent in throwing back some crumbs. no wonder the people of the united kingdom have decided – and want to decide in a referendum – that they no longer want to be part of this sham and that they want to spend their money in the united kingdom, not propping up some failing countries across europe.
madam president, on behalf of the ecr group i would like you to exercise your discretion under rule 162 and refer this matter back to committee. there are 71 requests for splits and separate votes, as well as an alternative motion for resolution. there is clearly no agreement on this report, and i would say that, as there is no majority position, it is right that this goes back to committee.
madam president, i think it might calm tempers here if i did make a request to have a vote to refer it back to committee. but you are correct: i did ask for the president to exercise his discretion under rule 162. i do not criticise your ruling.
madam president, your original ruling was correct. after that ashley fox did, on behalf of our group, request that it be referred back. can i suggest that you just take a vote on that? do not ask for speeches, just take a vote on the referral back, and then presumably that will help to satisfy those who feel very strongly about this issue. (applause)
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as my party opposes the tariffs.
in writing. − it is right that this proposed regulation has been brought forward to address any disadvantages that kosovan wine exporters may face when exporting wine to the eu market. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal to allocate a specific tariff quota for wine to kosovo, so that it may build on the ability it has already demonstrated to generate wine exports to the member states.
in writing. − my party voted in favour of amendment 1 as it calls for council funding for the kyrgyz republic to be rejected. macro-financial decisions should be left to the discretion of the individual member states as they are best equipped to decide if, and in which way, they are willing to support poorer regions.
in writing. − following the political upheaval in 2010, the eu has pledged financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. i support this initiative.
in writing. − i support this approval of the council position on the provision of macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. i hope that this macro-financial assistance instrument, along with other measures identified in the current imf programmes, can prove to be a positive tool in efforts to support economic stabilisation and social development in the kyrgyz republic, as well as fostering the building of democratic institutions.
in writing. − against. my party voted against this report as it attempts to take hiv self-testing kits (as well as other virus testing kits including hpv, h1n1v) and mandatory genetic testing kits off the otc market to make them prescription-only – this is good news for big pharmaceutical companies but bad news for everyone else.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on in vitro diagnostic (ivd) medical devices. they are currently covered by a separate ivd directive that is outdated due to the limited list of ivd that are considered ‘moderate’ and ‘high’ risk. many ivd devices can be self-certified by the manufacturer without any third-party conformity assessment. the new proposal changes this and introduces a new risk classification to ensure these devices can be sold safely. in wales we are very proud of being the birthplace of the nhs and we work to keep high standards of medical care. this legislation will help ensure that.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will still allow the uk to go ahead with new rules, which will mean that hiv tests will be available over the counter. this will be a progressive step forward in allowing those who suspect they may have contracted the disease to get tested much more easily. i hope this will result in a lowering in the number of people contracting the disease.
in writing. − i voted in favour of in vitro diagnostic medical devices because i support tougher rules on medical devices rather than supporting industry.
in writing. − i fully support these efforts to evaluate, here in the european parliament, what we can do to improve patient health and safety, as this goal should be a priority for all meps. however, i do have reservations with regard to some measures outlined in this proposal, which i am concerned may place obstacles in the way of innovation without the assurances that patient safety will be improved.
in writing. − british labour meps raised concerns with the rapporteur that specifying that class d devices should be available on prescription only would prevent the uk from going ahead with plans to make hiv tests available over-the-counter. although labour meps are glad that the rapporteur agreed that member states can make the decision to allow class d devices without a prescription, we voted against all these amendments to harmonise prescription policy. labour meps feel member states should be free to decide on which prescription policies work best in favour of public health. in the case of hiv, many at-risk groups may not feel willing or able to discuss the issue with their doctor. whilst counselling and advice should always be available, it is vital that we increase access to testing, given that one in four people living with hiv do not know that they have it.
madam president, the health and wellbeing of our constituents are a top priority for all of us as legislators, and i welcome much of what is in this report before parliament today. confidence in all aspects of health care, especially in the safety of medical devices and of medical procedures, is paramount to both healthcare professionals and patients. as technology evolves and further innovation brings yet more progress in the field of medicine, we ought to ensure that such innovation does not come at the expense of patients’ safety. information is also vital, and i believe that for many patients there is a vacuum of information – whether relating to benefits or risks – regarding the medical devices which are becoming more prevalent in treatment. that is a situation that must be addressed, and i believe this report can go some way to doing this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. medical devices comprise more than half a million different products, ranging from adhesive bandages to pacemakers. the european market is estimated to be around eur 100 billion annually. the current legislation on medical devices was introduced in the 1990s and a review of the legislation was planned for many years. however recent scandals, especially the one concerning breast implants, showed the need for urgent reform. this is an important issue for my constituents in wales and i have received several letters in relation to this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because we need tougher regulation of medical devices. when there have been scandals of defect products on the market, many patients are often left feeling vulnerable because of the lack of a traceability system. this is not acceptable.
in writing. − i support the medical devices regulation because i am in favour of tougher regulation of medical devices rather than supporting industry.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation on medical devices is a very important one, and one on which we must deliver smart legislation that reflects the needs of patients across the eu. i hope that, following this vote today, negotiations on this proposal with member state governments can deliver such proportionate regulation with patient safety at its core.
in writing. − it is vital that all medical devices are completely safe, especially those that are going to be implanted into a patient's body. after recent scandals, such as the pip breast implant case and problems with metal-on-metal hip replacements, it is clear that we need better regulation of medical devices to ensure patient safety. i therefore supported this report, which aims to ensure regulation of the medical devices industry is stricter and patients are better protected, without having a negative effect on innovation. measures included in the new regulation include improved market surveillance, increased transparency and the introduction of a traceability system using unique identification numbers, so that in future every device can be traced and recalled if necessary. we also need more rigorous testing of devices before they enter the market, which is why i wanted to see pre-market approval for high-risk devices such as breast implants and pacemakers. i was disappointed that conservative and liberal democrat meps gave in to heavy industry lobbying and helped to weaken this part of the proposal at committee stage.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as my party believes that the individual member states – and not the eu – should have ultimate control over this process.
in writing. − during my time as an mep i have worked on several waste issues, including this one. i supported this report to prevent so-called ‘beachingʼ or the dumping of ships unsafely in other countries. wales has effective policies on waste and i know that my constituents have an interest in these issues. it is right that the eu adopts legislation on this as eu companies own 37 % of the global shipping fleet.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is very important that the eu has a sustainable way of recycling ships. these huge pieces of metal can often be very toxic and cause environmental damage, and they should be dismantled and recycled properly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of ship recycling as i support safe and sound ship recycling and legislation, in order to improve standards.
in writing. − the european union has taken big steps during this mandate to bring consideration of our natural environment to the forefront when it comes to policymaking in a number of different areas. i have spoken before in this plenary about the success we have seen in reforming our common fisheries policies, for example, so that they will better preserve and protect our marine environments. i was pleased to support this agreement on the ship recycling regulation today, which again takes note of environmental needs and outlines how going forwards, eu ships can be dismantled in a more environmentally sound manner.
in writing. − the environmental and human cost of current ship recycling is inexcusable, which is why i supported the introduction of much higher standards for recycling eu ships. current ship recycling practices often result in the release of toxic chemicals and heavy metals, such as asbestos, lead, cadmium and mercury, while recyclers routinely work in poor conditions that violate their human rights to health and safety at work. this report will oblige member states to use only ship recycling facilities that meet internationally required standards set by the hong kong convention. a list of eu-approved sites that comply with environmental and worker-safety standards will be created, and it is hoped that this will push sites that fall below these standards to improve. the report also requires all eu ships, as well as non-eu ships using eu ports, to carry an inventory of hazardous materials. in an earlier vote, labour meps supported the creation of a ship recycling fund, but this was defeated. however, the final report does task the european commission with reporting on a possible system to incentivise the use of safe, eu-approved ship recycling facilities.
in writing. − against. my party is against this report as it seems to be forcing the creation of an eu census on population and vital events at a time when there is a debate in the uk on getting rid of our own, obliging member states to hand over data to eurostat in the process.
in writing. − i vote in favour of european statistics on demography because i support the proper collection of reliable and comparable population data within the european union.
in writing. − comprehensive and reliable data are an important tool in ensuring the formulation of high-quality legislation, and they have an important role to play in decision-making, forecasting and policy analysis too. i can appreciate the benefits of this proposal to establish a common framework for the systematic production of eu statistics on demography and i am pleased to see that this proposal foresees the generation of these statistics without the imposition of any extra burdens on member states.
in writing. − against. my party voted to send this report back to committee as we do not believe that europe should be allowed to interfere in the sensitive issues it discusses. according to the eu treaties, abortion is a matter of sovereign competence for the member states, yet this report attempts to interfere with and override that fact. furthermore, it is a fundamental part of human rights that parents should have the freedom to bring up their children according to their own choices and moral beliefs – enforcing compulsory sex education across the eu, as outlined in this report, is contrary to this right. in short, the estrela report is a mix of illegal, counterproductive, curious and shameful propositions not worthy of our support.
in writing. − this is a very important report which deals with serious issues of health, equality and anti-discrimination. i voted against referring it back to committee because i want my constituents in wales to have the right to feel safe and not discriminated against. this debate is about tolerance and understanding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. although i do not believe that the european union should force legislation on member states in this field, i do support menʼs and womenʼs ability to be able to practice safe sex if they so wish. i was disappointed by the right-wing of parliament rejecting this own-initiative report and sending it back to committee.
in writing. − i am in favour of sexual and reproductive health rights, as i believe this would promote responsibility for family planning and prevent abortion from becoming a contraceptive method.
madam president, i share the concerns raised by this report surrounding the violation of fundamental freedoms in the sahel region of africa. the statistics are startling. we think of widespread tolerance of violence against women in these societies. we also recognise the unacceptable reality of child labour, child soldiers and rising levels of human trafficking. freedoms of association and speech have also been trampled on in chad and mali. the region also fits a trend of countries becoming susceptible to islamic extremism. recently, the nigerian terrorist organisation boko haram infiltrated algeria, jeopardising personal religious freedoms, in particular those held by christians. as an mep for northern ireland, i know all too well the dangers that such wanton acts of terrorism present for protecting the rights of all in society. i also believe, however, that – as this report points out and as northern ireland proves – support for democracy and the rule of law is vital in ensuring that these freedoms are ultimately upheld.
in writing. − against. while we are, of course, concerned about human rights in the sahel region, this is yet another example of the eu trying to manipulate the situation to improve their image on the world scene.
in writing. − i was disappointed that the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament prevented a report on western sahara from being drafted, because it is long overdue. nevertheless, i voted in favour of this report as it contained many key points on western, sahara such as highlighting once again the eu's concern at allegations of torture and forced disappearances of the sahrawi at the hands of the moroccan authorities. i am proud that the western sahara campaign is very active in wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives a concise overview of the human rights abuses going on in that region. the sahel is a region that suffers from many developmental issues, and as a result human rights abuses are widespread. monitoring and publicising human rights abuses is an important part of parliamentʼs work.
in writing. − i am in favour of human rights in the sahel region as i believe in greater protections for those in the sahel region.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote in favour of this report, which was drawn up by my conservative colleague, addressing the important issue of human rights in one of the poorest regions of the world – a region which faces real problems relating to security and armed conflict, and economic and social development too. i very much hope that the recommendations outlined in this report will provide support for a coordinated international approach to the challenges that this region is facing.
in writing. − by and large i am proud of my sahel report, which offers concrete recommendations for eu policymakers. nevertheless, i wish to record my disagreement with certain amendments, in particular those mentioning sexual reproductive rights, and explicitly in one case, abortion. for me this was a conscience issue, but i was outvoted by colleagues. i was also disappointed that the house did not follow me in rejecting amendments linking corruption in mali with ‘cultural and ethnic separationʼ, and in particular, placing sororate and levirate marriage in the same category as child marriage and infibulation. sororate and levirate marriage are perfectly legitimate if performed with consent; if we want to be taken seriously as partners and engage in real dialogue, we must not lecture people and tell them how to live their lives. i further regret a line calling on algeria to ‘act upon its responsibility to alleviate the human rights situation in the tindouf campsʼ, wording as provocative as it is vague; but i am pleased that all references to ‘occupied territoriesʼ, which is not un terminology, were removed. overall i hope that my report can offer a real contribution to the regionʼs political and human rights discourse.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it is a prime example of the eu attempting to interfere in foreign affairs in which it has no business interfering.
in writing. − i voted in favour of local authorities and civil society as i support the role of local authorities and csos in development cooperation.
in writing. − i welcome the opportunity that this report has provided to consider how the european union’s development strategies going forwards can promote enabling environments for civil society organisations and local authorities.
madam president, in northern ireland today, approximately 65 000 people are claiming unemployment-related benefits. only one other uk region has a higher rate. unemployment among those aged between 18 to 24 has also reached its highest level since records began and now stands at 23.8 %. in the current economic climate, it is crucial that emphasis be put on education and skills development as a means to stimulate innovation and economic growth. in northern ireland the youth unemployment scheme is designed to give help and support to those looking for permanent work if they are between the ages of 18 and 24. the scheme provides work experience with an employer, giving youths the chance to sample particular types of work, improve levels of confidence and motivation and help develop employability skills. schemes such as this across europe are essential to build opportunities for all our young people, regardless of their abilities and circumstances.
in writing. − i abstained on this report as i felt that, although it has some good points, it unfortunately opens the way for university-business partnerships, something which will be to the detriment of the impartiality of the education system and create a bias in curriculums towards certain career paths. it also does not go far enough towards ensuring that young people have access to good-quality and paid internships, and does not ensure internships are not a veil for unpaid work. i voted in favour of paragraph 74, as i believe that massive open online courses are an important learning tool and offer flexibility and facilitate affordable and lifelong learning. however, i would like to use this explanation to underline the fact that i do not think they should be seen as a substitute or an alternative to universities, which for some are becoming unaffordable due to high course fees. university education should be available for all who choose that path, regardless of their circumstances, as should moocs. but one should not become the ‘poor man’s’ version of the other.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as my party believes that the member states should have complete control over their own individual education systems and policies.
in writing. − there is no doubt that developing the right education systems that provide our children with the broad skills set they need holds the key to successfully tackling youth unemployment within the eu. whilst i recognise the importance of reflecting here on what we can do to support the delivery of high-quality learning opportunities for all of our young people, i am afraid that i could not support this report today, as i feel that it goes too far in making recommendations to member states on how this should be achieved. this is something that i believe our own respective governments remain best placed to address.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it demonstrates the unjustified expenditure of taxpayers’ money.
in writing. − i voted in favour of european union pre-accession funds as i am against corruption in foreign political systems and in favour of strengthening foreign judicial systems.
in writing. − tackling corruption and strengthening the rule of law should be a key priority for all candidate and potential candidate countries to the eu. i therefore welcome the opportunity that this report provides to analyse how pre-accession funds can better support these goals.
in writing. − against. no one can dispute the importance of ensuring patient safety; however we believe that provisions in this area should ultimately be controlled by the individual member states.
in writing. − 30-40 % of adverse events related to medical treatment, in both the hospital sector and community care are preventable. these include healthcare-associated infections (hais), which are contracted by an estimated 5 % of patients in hospitals – or 3.2 million people – each year and are directly responsible for 37 000 deaths. the report is focused on healthcare-associated infections, with a particular focus on infections in home-care. the report also refers to patient empowerment, cross-border cooperation, promotion of new research, and better monitoring and harmonization of patient safety reporting by the member states. unfortunately, in wales we are familiar with cases of serious infections arising in hospitals; therefore, steps to prevent this in future are to be welcomed. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that any improvement in the safety of patients should be encouraged. this report stated that there is significant room for improvement in most member states to improve patient safety. for example, there should be better training and education for health professionals and patients on healthcare associated infections.
in writing. − i voted in favour of patient safety as i believe in the introduction of measures improving patient safety, including those involving healthcare associated infections, within the european union.
in writing. − we have already considered reports today that address key issues relating to patient safety in the field of medical devices, so it is timely that we also have this opportunity to review, from a broader perspective, what can be done to improve patient safety within the eu. i am particularly pleased to see that this report is taking the opportunity to tackle the important issues surrounding the off-label use of medicines. where alternative authorised treatments exist and are available to patients within the eu, we need to ensure robust guidelines for any off-label usage and take into account patient safety above any cost-cutting incentives.
in writing. − i commend my colleague, mr rossi, for drafting this report on what is a very serious issue. having been an nhs consultant prior to entering this chamber, i have always continued to follow developments in healthcare. the spread of hais in uk hospitals has been a particular problem over the past decade and there has been much press coverage of the issue, particularly with regard to mrsa and c. difficile. the uk has taken a centralised approach to dealing with this problem, setting targets in 2004 for the reduction of hais, and ring-fencing specific budgets. i am pleased to say that these efforts have proved effective, with hai-related deaths falling dramatically. indeed, in the case of mrsa, the death rate has fallen by 75 % between 2008 and 2012. there is still work to be done, however, and we must not be complacent – the overall message of this report in fact. its recommendations for encouraging the implementation of national checklists and for following the whoʼs guidelines for better hygiene are to be welcomed, but we must remember when assessing such matters that public health is a shared competency with member states.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as, while it is important that advertising does not mislead, the content of this report represents more power for europol and the commission when it is by international cooperation that maximum impact in this area can be achieved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important that misleading advertising practices are stopped and that eu businesses stop losing money by being victims of them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of greater enforcement against misleading advertising practices because i believe in greater consumer protection and the need to avoid fraudulent practices within the european union.
in writing. − one of the things my constituents often write to me about is the financial difficulty in which they have found themselves, or the genuine frustration they have felt as consumers, because they have been the victim of a misleading advertising practice or a scam. often, in such cases i have also found that constituents do not know whom they can turn to for advice. it is clear therefore that we need to do more to address the problems these scams cause and to ensure that they do not go unreported. i am therefore very glad to see this issue being considered here in this parliament.
in writing. − in these difficult economic times, support for small and medium-sized businesses is more important than ever. these companies are often most vulnerable to collapse during times of financial hardship, and this report highlights how they are also more likely to be the victims of misleading and unscrupulous advertising. the points raised in the report are undoubtedly of merit and its recommendations unquestionably outlined with good intention. in calling for more joint action between member states and the commission in terms of raising awareness and strengthening the enforcement of existing legislation, i wholeheartedly support the report. i am more sceptical, however, in its recommendations on introducing an eu-wide blacklist of companies repeatedly convicted for such practices or the idea of extending the scope of the ucpd to cover b2b contracts. we must remember that the intention of such measures is ultimately to support businesses. we must therefore be careful that we do not unintentionally hamper the interests of smes in the process of affording them protection.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr iacolino for all his good work and cooperation during the investigation. we are here today because we all know that more needs to be done to fight the growing problem of cross-border crime: crime which costs eu business eur 670 billion annually and causes the loss of too many innocent lives. we may not always agree on the precise methods to tackle these problems – most notably the use of a european public prosecutor – but we can agree that there needs to be a stronger response from member states, law enforcement bodies and the eu in the fight against crime. illicit drugs, human trafficking, smuggling and funding terrorism are just some of the problems faced by member states. my hope is that the committee does not act as a commentary to these problems but brings forward new ideas, particularly the need for increased cross-border information sharing. our group has always placed the emphasis on improving information sharing and cooperation between member states and on the need for a serious response to the growing threat of cybercrime. this is one area in which the need to look beyond the european union to tackle these problems is key. having good relationships between the european union and third countries, including their law enforcement agencies, as well as pursuing international agreements and treaties, is essential. criminals do not respect boundaries, geography or legal jurisdictions. therefore, we need international partners and global mechanisms in order to fight back. so often, recommendations are made and legislation is adopted that repeatedly fail to live up to expectations. too often we are playing a game of catch-up with heavy, sophisticated and well-organised criminal groups, because we are too busy creating wish lists. what the parliament and commission need is to make sure that there is a legacy with regard to the work of this committee and that these problems are tackled in a serious, focused and effective way.
mr president, what did our committee actually uncover in these eighteen months? we found that millions of legitimate jobs for our citizens have been lost, that billions in taxes are not being paid and are lost – how much our governments would appreciate those! – that the losses are growing at maybe 15 % year after year, and that organised crime kills many more people than terrorists do. this is hugely serious. so what is being done? the answer is: very, very little – far too little. why? because the member states are afraid of action and of sharing sovereignty in order to act together. we discovered, for example, that very few of the containers that enter europe by land, sea or air are ever opened or examined – perhaps a maximum of 5 %. so in the containers, which are never even touched, come slaves, counterfeit goods, drugs, etc. – all damaging our society. there are different laws and practices in the different member state, because they will not work together. in the absence of an fbi, which i firmly believe we will have to create – and the sooner the better – i looked at the figures for my own member state to see precisely how much international cooperation there is. in the current year, mr president, my member state has been involved in precisely 12 joint investigation teams. there is a torrent of crime across europe, and all london can do is organise 12 teams on different occasions this year. it is shockingly bad. mr president, a final word. in the american constitution there is a famous phrase in which the president has to take action when he sees a clear and present danger. in europe we face major danger, but it is unclear and it is escalating fast. what our citizens demand from the commission, from the next parliament and from the member states, is that action is taken and that it is taken now.
mr president, in my own constituency of northern ireland, tomorrow will mark twenty years since ira terrorists murdered nine innocent people in a bomb attack on the shankill road in belfast. the terrorist was also blown up by his own bomb. we as a people have seen all too often the result of the relationship between organised crime and terrorism. recent efforts to combat serious crime in northern ireland and particularly fuel laundering have been hampered by the willingness of nationalist and republican politicians to block the national crime agency from operating in our region of the united kingdom. this approach has been motivated by self-interest and must change fast. the committee’s report contains several positive elements. it highlights the need to stem the rise in human trafficking, tackle new offences relating to cybercrime and ban legal highs. i welcome the proposal for a charter for the protection and assistance of victims of trafficking. i am, however, disheartened by the committee’s fascination with harmonising banking systems and national criminal law provision under its planned action plan, and its recommendation on an eu public prosecutor. member states must retain full sovereignty in these areas.
mr president, if the eu needs to know whether the single market has been a success, it need only look at organised crime. the removal of international borders and visa-free travel make detection much less likely. the creation of a single currency could have been invented by money launderers – possibly it was. of course, money laundering is not always obviously a cross-border activity. the uk is full of micro and small businesses which deal with cash customers and survive only by divine providence. indeed, the hand of god – or at least one of his alternatives – must be responsible, because the tiny number of customers they have could not sustain them. the products that they sell in limited quantities are varieties of fast food and taxi rides. the trafficked products and people that they sell on a grander and more profitable scale are the products and services that dare not speak their name. organised crime is a real problem, and this report has some merit. but it is being used to justify yet more eu centralisation and control, more harmonisation and, of course, use of the eu’s public prosecutor’s office.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 23 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the council statement on the e-justice action plan 2014-2018 (2013/2852(rsp)).
mr president, to paraphrase some of my colleagues, e-justice is not a question of ‘if’: it is a central tool for the european union. to paraphrase one colleague in particular, cross-border justice is often delayed and then denied, and of course that is the case in the european union. i am sure my colleagues feel as i do that, when it comes to the european arrest warrant in the criminal field and also in the areas of small claims procedures, sis and criminal records information systems, we need online tools to ensure that we actually implement some of the big building blocks of the judicial system and the cross-border system in the european union. if we do not have the cross-border e-justice system, the building blocks will not work efficiently. i would say to colleagues about, for example, the european arrest warrant: it does not work well unless issues of proportionality and other issues are working extremely well using e-justice tools. we must now ensure that in the next few years they work extremely well. i know the members in this house will want the e-justice system to work well to ensure that the building blocks work efficiently in order that all our citizens have that added value.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 23 october 2013.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the croatian member of the court of auditors by jan mulder, ingeborg gräßle, jens geier, michael theurer, bart staes, inés ayala sender, søren bo søndergaard, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control (o-000100/2013 (2013/2891(rsp)) – b7-0522/2013).
can i just make the point that mr mates would, of course, not be allowed to address plenary, but he has, as you say, been heard at hearings. catch-the-eye procedure
it is a tradition in the house of commons (may i just tell you) that you can never accuse another colleague of lying – it is a very serious thing to do. you can use other terminology. (end of catch-the-eye procedure)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am very glad the commission has made this statement and that i have an opportunity to reply. it is time for us to bring some evidence-based clarity into this discussion on eu citizens’ mobility and member states’ welfare systems, instead of allowing the eurosceptics to band around misleading statistics and inflammatory arguments, which are sometimes used by ukip and tory eurosceptics in the uk as a reason for the uk to leave the eu. last week in the uk, a newspaper article claimed that there are 600 000 unemployed eu migrants living in the uk. in fact the latest figure shows that there are just 38 000 eu nationals in the uk claiming job-seekers allowance. the initial inflated shocking press-worthy statistic actually included schoolchildren, students, pensioners and stay-at-home parents. it has also recently been revealed that there are approximately 10 000 brits currently drawing unemployment benefit in germany, so it does work both ways. in addition, eastern european migrants have paid 37 % more in taxes than they have received in government spending and are 59 % less likely to receive welfare benefits than uk nationals in the uk. furthermore, a recent report by birmingham university found that there was little or no evidence that eu migrants have had a negative impact on the employment of uk workers. it is definitely right that we have a full and rigorous debate on the pros and cons of eu migration, but it should be based on facts and not on misrepresentation. we must remember that free movement is a fundamental right and one of the great successes of the union. there is now a big debate about access to welfare systems across the eu; but whatever we do in the future, we should neither compromise the principle of free movement nor make it difficult for member states to determine the strength and depth of their own welfare systems. the reality is that hard-working migrants and immigrants have been coming to birmingham in the west midlands in my constituency for centuries, just as hard-working people from the west midlands have travelled in search of work and new opportunities for centuries. long may this continue. to finish, i would like to ask the commission if there are any trends that show that member states with a higher number of migrants have increased welfare spending on those migrants or whether there are increased contributions to the economy from those migrants. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr bennion, does your speech mean that you support more immigration from eastern european countries into the uk and, in particular, into your own constituency of the west midlands?
blue-card answer. – the principle of free movement does not include supporting or rejecting more immigration. people will move where the jobs are, and if there are more jobs outside the west midlands and we have high unemployment, then the flows will be in the other direction. at the moment, some of the companies in my constituency are having trouble finding the relevant skills that they need, and they are looking outside the west midlands – jaguar/land rover for instance. so it depends on where the demand for labour lies.
mr president, not one in a thousand british people would know who commissioner andor was. they would not be able to pick him out of a line-up and yet he is really rather powerful. he is the governor. he is the man who decides who can come to britain and who can claim benefits. he has more power than a british government minister. but i have to thank him for his study, because he is the one who has told us that there are 600 000 economically-inactive eastern europeans in britain – something our own government was not able to tell us. i suppose i have to admire his commitment to his job. after all he is going to take the uk government to court to make sure that we do not treat eastern europeans any differently to our own people. so it is certain that he means business. i know that this is a very complex area, but let us just look at one in-work social benefit, shall we? child benefit. from eastern europe, at the moment, there are people to whom we are now paying child benefit for 50 000 children who do not even live in the united kingdom. there is no possible justification for us doing that. it is costing us gbp 1 million a week, and it is yet another pull factor. but of course, this whole issue is going to get bigger, because we appear to have learnt nothing from 2004. if you allow the unrestricted free flow of people between poor and rich countries, do not be surprised when you get a big result. we had a government prediction of 13 000 people a year, and it was something like 400 000 a year for the first two years. so we open the doors next year to romania and bulgaria. it means more oversupply in the unskilled labour market, a greater burden on the national health service and our schools and, yes – sadly – it is going to mean more crime too. this issue will be the central issue of the european elections next year. it will be the central issue of whether britain remains a member of the european union. we are not against anybody from eastern europe, but we do believe that it is right and proper that we should restrict and decide who comes to live in our country.
mr president, with great respect to the chair, it is simply a convention of you and one other chairman that people on the speakers list cannot have blue cards. this is a debate and a matter of great interest to our constituents, so can i respectfully submit to the chair that the blue card be permitted, even if people are on the speakers list? this does not apply to me, by the way.
mr president, people have spoken about their areas. london, which i represent, is home to one million eu nationals, and many will tell you that one of the problems is a lack of awareness of rights, not people abusing them. also, free movement is one of the most popular rights of the european union, which may explain why certain people are so busy attacking it at the moment. i wanted to say a couple of words about coordination of social security, given that i worked on that for 10 years in this parliament. it is about the same rights as nationals; it is about the same qualifying periods as nationals; it has been the practice for years – possibly the sixth piece of legislation ever put in place by the european union – and the current rules were passed by unanimity in council. we have heard a lot about why people move. it is not just about salaries, when they take that into account – it is also the cost of living. so do not assume that a higher salary automatically means that people get a better quality of life if they choose to move.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the latest european neighbourhood policy report is largely to be welcomed, although each year it becomes more apparent how difficult it is to harmonise a strategy for such different countries, particularly with the combination of both the southern and eastern partnership. ten years ago, i was rapporteur in this parliament when the five countries of the east had a certain cohesion, but now even there we see the effects of competing interests and new russian pressure, particularly when it comes to armenia and, potentially, moldova. so we need to focus on saving the big fish, namely ukraine and georgia. we naturally welcome president yanukovych’s moves to sign the dcfta and association agreement in vilnius next month, together with the real efforts he has shown to resolve the thorny issue of yulia tymoshenko’s incarceration under selective justice by letting her seek medical treatment in germany. as for armenia, a country dear to my heart, we naturally regret its move to join the eurasian customs union with russia, but we can still cooperate with that country on a whole range of issues, from visa liberalisation to culture and tourism outside the formal dcfta mechanisms. indeed, we must redouble our efforts to build relationships and cooperation with all the countries of the southern and eastern partnerships, irrespective of vilnius. lastly, on the question of armenia, which i am visiting shortly, i hope that they will be present at a high level of their own government at vilnius, even if the dcfta and association agreement is sadly no longer on the table.
madam president, as parliament’s rapporteur for moldova, my focus is on what commissioner füle called a summit which could deliver our shared priorities in vilnius. like our rapporteurs, messrs saryusz-wolski and panzeri, i hope for the signature of an association agreement with ukraine and the initialling of similar agreements with moldova and georgia. the efforts and the determination of these three countries are noteworthy. for moldova, the negotiations for an agreement were finalised in june, and recently the country has overturned the gay propaganda ban, a move which distinguishes it from its eastern neighbour. georgia achieved a peaceful transition of power in parliamentary elections and prepares to elect a new president this month, which i hope will give an impetus to reform by ending the difficult period of cohabitation. ukraine has shown its willingness to meet our concerns through the mediation of pat cox and aleksander kwaśniewski. in so doing it has signalled its will to engage with the union and the importance it places on europe. but neither our eastern neighbours nor we should rest on our laurels. we must continue the hard work towards the goals we share, and that is why moldova must engage more actively in political reform and focus on anti-corruption efforts; why georgia must continue the reforms of its judicial system and its work on minority rights; why the union, and in particular the commission, should work hard to finalise the legal texts so they can be signed as soon as possible; and why the member states and parliament must put the interests of the people first and not slip into party-political infighting. russia’s pressure on our eastern partners and now on one of our member states must be resisted at all costs, for – as this process shows – president putin is on the wrong side of history. lithuania’s presidency can score a success at this summit, and i hope that commissioner füle has kept a good diary so that he can publish an interesting memoir.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his hard work, also my fellow shadows. after a lot of hard work, cfp reform has been hailed as a success. everyone acknowledges that, and this report on the emff is an opportunity to consolidate this good work. so how do we consolidate? by supporting the discard ban, by supporting our plans for msy, through money for gear change and selective gear, money for data collection, and money for control and enforcement. i think we can all agree on that. but this report, as amended by mr cadec, represents an attempt to confound the simplicity of that approach by over-complication and obfuscation. what should be transparent becomes opaque. i will take one small example. let us talk about engines. nothing in the commission proposal was there for upgrading or replacement. in fact, these were explicitly and conspicuously made ineligible for emff funds. so the rapporteur changed the language. we did not talk about engines any more, we talked about energy efficiency and modernisation. this is euphemistic language calculated to obscure the real intent. so let us reject these euphemisms. we should say ‘no’ to construction, ‘no’ to engine replacement, ‘no’ to temporary and permanent cessation, and ‘no’ to mutual funds. there have been attempts to compromise but, in the end, no compromise is possible on these black-and-white issues. there is no middle of the road available. as regards construction, how can we go back to our voters and say that we voted for a reformed cfp and turned the most discredited policy in the european union into a source of opportunity and of hope? now we want to reintroduce aid for construction, which was abolished in 2002 for being unsustainable. how can we do that? i will not do it, and i do not think anyone else should either.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, at the weekend i had arranged to speak to a group of fishermen from the north-east of england. they wanted me to speak to them about how much better life could be outside the cfp. they had actually arranged the time and date for the meeting, so keen were they to be there. just before the meeting started, i had a call from the leader of a delegation – not of all of them, but of some of them. they were too frightened to come to the meeting. they were terrified of reprisals from our ministry of fisheries or the equivalent for listening to me. that is the level of fear now amongst our fishing community. it is disgraceful. as for this report, british taxpayers have to subsidise the building of spanish fishing boats to come and fish in what should be british waters. it is absolutely unacceptable! i also note the mention of a european coastguard in the report – no thank you!
mr president, northern ireland’s fishing fleet operates in one of the most restrictive regulatory environments known to industry. this has come through policies driven by a centralised bureaucracy in brussels and is in many ways gold-plated by domestic fisheries administrations. we are all concerned about ensuring a sustainable marine environment. one element of this is ensuring that our fleet is economically sustainable as it contributes to the maintenance and, where appropriate, the recovery of the marine ecosystem. the size of northern ireland’s fishing fleet has been dramatically reduced over the past ten to twenty years. our fishermen have delivered huge reductions in fishing effort. they have been at the forefront of developing highly selective gears which comply with eu rules. the majority of fish and shellfish stocks in the irish sea are being fished sustainably. the new common fisheries policy brings with it new challenges: a land-all policy accompanied by a drive to develop long-term fisheries management plans. it is therefore essential that the emff includes the necessary measures to help ensure the survival of northern ireland’s fleet.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i and my group welcome the emphasis that tomorrow’s council will place on economic matters. the agenda says – and i quote – that the council will have a ‘thematic discussion’. they are going to ‘take stock’ and ‘assess ongoing work’. that does not sound very inspiring to me. i fear that this agenda merely asks for business as usual, while outside, real businesses are still struggling. we all know what needs to be done. the only question in my mind is whether we have the political will to actually deliver it. perhaps, instead of thematic discussions, we need clear decisions. instead of taking stock, let us actually have some action, and instead of assessing ongoing work, perhaps some radical reform to remove the barriers to competitiveness would be useful. europe should be exporting goods and services, not jobs and wealth, but every time we place an additional burden on businesses and industry, we make europe less attractive to potential investment. in my own member state, research by the think-tank open europe highlighted that, of the 100 most costly regulations for the uk economy, 24 of those laws actually cost more than the benefits that they bring. we need to look again at many of those laws. the commission’s proposals for refit (regulatory fitness and performance programme) were a good opening salvo in the war on red tape, and i welcome them. with any red tape, of course, it is much easier to put in on than it is to get it off again. eu red tape is no different. but last week we were presented with a new way forward. this report on eu red tape was drafted by the leaders of some of europe’s most successful businesses. i am sure they will be reviled by the left and by the greens in this chamber because they are not, of course, eu-funded ngos. but, unlike those ngos, these are the people who actually provide the jobs and the taxes that pay all of our salaries and for all of our services. we should be listening to them with care. in this report there are some very sensible suggestions. i think mr barroso already has a copy of it, and i hope that he will go and beat commissioner andor over the head with it, because it is his department that produces many of the regulations that we want to get rid of. one of the absurdities in this debate is that many of the people in this room, who bask in the title of pro-european, have an agenda for centralisation that will actually damage europe: an agenda that will limit its economy, limit the opportunities of its people and condemn us all to a poorer future. because there is nothing pro-european about obsessively pursuing an outdated vision that is undermining europe’s future potential. that is the old-fashioned agenda that is reinforced by many of the vested interests that we have within the brussels beltway. just think of all the ngos that we face every day, which are paid by the commission to campaign for yet more regulations and yet more red tape. we seek their opinions as stakeholders, but all too often we are simply receiving the opinions of individuals with a centralising agenda of their own. it was almost exactly 150 years ago at gettysburg that lincoln outlined the challenge of a government of the people, by the people and for the people. well, today in the eu, we have an eu of the ngos, by the ngos and for the ngos. this challenge is why much of the good work done by the commission’s internal market and trade and industry departments is undermined by the paid allies of the commission’s own social affairs or environment departments. it is all too often a case of one step forward and two steps back. overcoming those vested interests should be our challenge, but it will be very difficult. however, i can tell you now where to start. we could slash the eur 7.5 billion that the commission gives to those very ngos. a report here by the new direction think tank outlines exactly that. i would recommend it to you as yet more set reading. it is a very good study. it sets out the reforms needed so that we can fully represent the people of europe and not predominantly the interest groups of the european district. i hope we will see some action from the european council this week: action to break down barriers to starting and expanding a company, action to break down the barriers to europe’s competitiveness, and action to ensure that our debates are not drowned out by the special interest groups with their own agendas. these reports show the way forward to reforming europe’s economy. they should be set reading for anyone who genuinely wants to see a business-led recovery in europe.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, there is only one real debate going on here this week in strasbourg: it is the fear stalking the corridors, the concern you have got about the rise of euro-scepticism. years ago you were less worried. the few of us here who were euro-sceptics were treated as being mentally ill and sort of patted on the head. now we are evil populists; we are dangerous; we are going to bring down western civilisation. it is clear that you do not get it, you do not understand why this is happening. well, let me help you. in 2005 it was the pivotal moment of this project: the french and the dutch had said ‘no’ to the eu constitution. mr barroso stood up and said: ‘they did not really vote ‘no’. they did not understand what they were doing’. but they did. you see, ever since 2005, the real european debate has been about identity. what we are saying – large numbers of us – from every single eu member state is: ‘we do not want that flag. we do not want the anthem that you all stood so ramrod straight for yesterday. we do not want eu passports. we do not want political union’. if you think about it, there is nothing extreme about that position. there is nothing right-wing about that position; there is nothing left-wing, indeed, about that position. it is a normal, sensible assertion of identity. what we are saying on our side of the argument – you see, you can scream and shout all you like, which really rather proves to me why you are going to do so badly in the european elections next year, because you are not listening – we want to live and work and breathe in a europe of nation-state democracy. we want to trade together, we want to cooperate together. we are happy to agree sensible common minimum standards and, yes, we want to control our own borders, which is the rational, logical and sensible thing for any nation state to do. we are not against immigration or immigrants. we believe there needs to be a degree of control, and that is the message that is picking up support right across this continent. i genuinely think that there is an opportunity for an electoral earthquake to happen in the european elections next year, with a large number of people from all sides of this house who will come with a nation state agenda, who will come saying: ‘let us have a europe, as de gaulle might have said, of the patries; let us not have a europe of political union’. you can abuse us all you like, but what we stand for is fair, principled and democratic.
madam president, this agenda is a distraction from the real causes of unemployment and the lack of growth. they include restrictive budgetary policies, cheap foreign imports from emergent economies, domestic earned income being invested abroad, and the outsourcing of jobs. but the cause of unemployment which is the real taboo is immigration, especially immigration from the third world. their migrants are assisted by anti-discrimination laws, while what we really need are native population preference laws, so that each country’s nationals could go to the top of the employment list. immigration should be on the agenda as one of the causes of unemployment. in the uk, we have an establishment safety-valve party that would pretend to be opposed to mass immigration, but on 4 may 2010, its leader, mr farage, said that the uk should issue a quarter of a million work permits each year.
in writing. – this summit sees us discuss, once again, the eu’s youth employment initiative, its place within wider efforts to foster growth, jobs and eu competitiveness, and the aim of making it fully operational by january 2014. the uk currently has a youth unemployment rate of 21 %. this means that approximately 1 million 18-25 year olds in the country are out of work. and, as of 1 january 2014, when 29 million romanians and bulgarians will be allowed to enter the country freely, the youth job market – and, more than likely, the job market as a whole – is sure to reach saturation point. we can sit here and discuss and dissect the youth employment initiative all day and all night but my party and i quite simply cannot see how this initiative will make any real positive impact in our country. it is clear to me that the only way to ease the youth employment crisis we are currently facing in the uk is to leave the eu, regain proper control of our borders and make sure that any available jobs are done by our own young people.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in the european semester report, i am pleased to see that parliament recognises the importance of reform and austerity. but what is austerity? really, it is politician-speak for what my parents used to call simply living within your means. in my constituency of london, i support a couple of financial education projects such as pfeg and mybank. but the first lesson of financial education is that you should not spend more money than you have coming in. yet so many politicians have ignored this very simple rule. we need to relearn these lessons if we are going to fix our economies. about ten years ago, the german social democrat government introduced agenda 2010. the german people tightened their belts, and today they are an economic powerhouse. in my own country – the uk – in 2010, the incoming conservative-led government inherited a situation where one pound in four in taxes was being used to service our debt. we took tough decisions, we capped benefits and we cut the deficit by a third. these were tough decisions, but they also allowed us to cut income tax for 25 million people, create 1.5 million private sector jobs, and start to deliver growth again. however, we still have a long way to go. before the eu lectures member states about their budgetary situations, perhaps we should put our own house in order. one of the reasons why so many people have so little faith in the eu is that we do not practise what we preach. we have a european parliament that debates energy efficiency yet only last month told meps that they would be switching off tvs when we are not here in this building. we have a european commission which tells countries how to manage their budgets, yet we have not seen the eu accounts signed off for eighteen years. furthermore, we have a commission which only two weeks ago told the parliament that all was fine and now says it will run out of cash within a month. we have to learn to live within our means. let us complete the single market, and let us cut red tape to allow companies to create jobs and sustainable growth.
madam president, with the agreement of all the political groups i propose that tomorrow’s session start at 08.30 to allow sufficient time to debate draft amending budget no 6.
madam president, i listened very carefully (or as carefully as i could) to what the rapporteur was saying on the various amendments to the amendments, but since our voting lists are not in numerical order of amendments it was impossible to follow, and we still do not know what those amendment alterations are. how can we possibly vote in that light?
madam president, i would like to congratulate you on the brilliant way that you have conducted this mammoth voting session. (applause)
madam president, while i entirely agree with michael cashman, let me make the point that we were told by mr schulz, back in march after those ridiculous agriculture votes, that this sort of vote would never take place again. i appeal to the group leaders to assume their responsibilities – those who are still here, who have not gone to lunch or to the summit in brussels – in future. there will be seven sessions here in strasbourg and one mini plenary in brussels before the elections. we must properly arrange our voting and our agenda so that we do not have to put you – or anybody else – through this ridiculous charade again. (applause)
in writing. − my party abstained from voting here as while we are, of course, in favour of the control of illicit substances we are opposed to the monitoring and surveillance techniques outlined.
in writing. − i voted against this report. the commission proposal was to implement the world health organisation’s recommendation that the eu control some medicines due to the possibility of extracting from them, illicit drugs. however i believe that the unlimited extension of control of trade in medicines goes too far. medicines by and large serve health purposes and not illicit drug production, and it is important that the people of wales always have access to these important medicines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, along with my labour colleagues. it is a good report and has, in my opinion, the right approach on how to include certain products under different categories.
in writing. − i voted in favour of trade between the community and third countries in drug precursors because drug precursors can be used to make harmful illegal narcotics.
in writing. − trade in illegal drugs sadly affects all member states. therefore it is right that we work together where we can to make sure that we have effective systems in place to monitor trade flows in drug precursors and identify misuse.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it represents yet another regulatory burden on any company or enterprise which makes or deals with these drug precursors. furthermore, previous experience demonstrates that such databases do little in reality to curb crime or have the intended effect.
in writing. − i abstained from this vote because of fears that this proposal leaves far too much flexibility in the hands of the commission to decide which drugs could be included in the annex of substances. furthermore, a list of all licensed or registered operators and end-users of drug precursors in the eu raises serious data protection concerns. these are concerns that my constituents in wales and i both share.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because drug precursors are often used in the development of illicit drugs. i supported this report because it had clear purpose limitations and strict restrictions on sharing information with third parties. by registering all operators and end-users trading in and using particular precursors, the eu will be better able to control the spread of illegal drugs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of legislation against drug precursors, as i am in favour of improved public health.
in writing. − effective tackling of the diversion of substances from legal trade for use in drug production can be an important tool in the fight against illegal drugs and one in which we must do all that we can to support. i welcome this commission proposal and i hope it will strengthen our ability to identify when substances produced for legal purposes are being misused for illegal drug production.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it represents yet another attempt to create a unified, homogenised eu law designed to replace individual member states’ national legal provisions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european semester for economic policy coordination as i believe in greater economic growth between member states and more harmonisation.
in writing. − it is important that we take stock of the effectiveness of eu initiatives such as this e-justice action plan to ensure that they are functioning effectively and to evaluate how they can be improved. therefore i welcome this opportunity for the european parliament to make recommendations for the e-justice programme for 2014-2018.
in writing. − i voted for the e-justice action plan 2014-2018. i did so because i believe that e-justice has an important role to play in enhancing mutual trust and understanding in judicial and administrative decisions. i think the e-justice action plan should be developed on an open-access basis and all member states should be encouraged to participate. i support this plan because e-justice systems have a tendency to decrease the costs of judicial and administrative proceedings. furthermore, i believe that this plan will be an important step towards building a true european judicial culture by hosting online tools for judicial training, and will serve as a knowledge management and interconnection instrument.
in writing. − this resolution calls for the suspension of the eu-us terrorist finance tracking programme (tftp) and for an investigation to be carried out into allegations that us authorities have had unauthorised access to swift information. the swift agreement gives the us treasury department access to data on european citizens’ financial transactions as part of the tftp. meps were cautious about the swift agreement when it was first negotiated, but eventually we gave our support on the basis that the agreement provided a balanced approach to fighting terrorism whilst at the same time guaranteeing eu citizens’ right to privacy. however, reports of the nsa tapping into the swift data mean that there are now serious doubts that this agreement offers any real legal guarantees and safeguards. labour meps supported this resolution as we believe that suspending the agreement would put the necessary political pressure on the us to appropriately respond to the allegations and to ensure adequate safeguards for eu citizens.
blue-card question. – mr salafranca, thank you for taking the intervention. at the present time, there is no proper free movement between spain and gibraltar, which i have the honour to represent. this has been going on for months. is it not clear to you that, until proper free movement between spain and gibraltar is reinstated by your government, any concept of the eu having weight on the international stage – to use your own phrase – is a complete impossibility?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, four years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the credibility of the eu in world affairs is at stake. i fear that, despite the great efforts of cathy ashton and her team, neither the european external action service nor the european defence agency are properly trusted, certainly by the larger member states. european-nato relations remain impaired, and the single most successful tool of the cfsp – an enlargement policy – is sadly depleted. these things are, of course, connected. of all the obstacles, the greatest is cyprus, whose assimilation as a full member state is only partial, where the acquis is suspended and which remains not recognised by our largest and most strategic candidate state, turkey. turkey faces a big decision. it either follows a path of european pluralist liberal democracy and becomes a normal nato partner and a serious accession candidate, or it chooses an authoritarian islamist democracy and an oriental foreign policy. so i think that, if there is a single big issue which must be tackled by the european council in december, it is cyprus. a solution to its partition is clearly beyond the capacity of cypriots by themselves. the entire european union and the un must establish and assert that the present situation can no longer be tolerated as an obstacle to our global stance. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – andrew, you are a well-known friend of turkey and you mentioned the problems with turkey. would you not agree that the very best thing it could do in terms of confidence-building measures would be to allow the return of famagusta-varosha to its rightful inhabitants, who are mainly from the greek cypriot community? not only would it actually create huge numbers of jobs in a member state – against the backdrop of the problems that it is now facing with the banking crisis – it would also allow the kasoulides plan – a plan formulated by our former colleague who is now foreign minister of cyprus – to deliver some sweeteners, i.e. lifting the veto by cyprus on certain turkish chapters for negotiation. this would be win-win situation all the way round. could you try to convince your turkish friends to agree to that?
blue-card answer. – i think there are several things that could and should be achieved on each side. perhaps the most dramatic and important thing that turkey could do is to remove some of its occupying forces in the north. but the real problem is, i think, the occupation of the minds of cypriots, greeks and turks. i think that is a graver and more complex and profound issue that will require intensive diplomacy and a considerable amount of time. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i trust that we can, and indeed i proposed that prime minister erdoğan be invited to the meeting of the european council. unfortunately, the aggressive response he has displayed to the gezi park protests has scuppered that plan, but there is still time, and i would like this parliament, the commission and catherine ashton to concert strongly upon a solution to the cypriot problem.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am a staunch defender of national sovereignty and the right of member states to hold the reins over their own foreign policy and defence, acting in their own national interests. but this does not mean that the united kingdom – my country – cannot support a common foreign security policy of the eu where it adds clear value. the european union is a powerful bloc of liberal democracies. although our domestic politics may differ substantially, in our dealings with the outside world our similarities are usually more evident and outweigh our differences. lady ashton, your recent achievement in bringing together the kosovo and serbian leaders in their landmark agreement demonstrates the potential for a cfsp at its best, particularly given the fact that the eulex mission in kosovo was very helpful in re-establishing the rule of law. the eu training missions in uganda and mali are also particular successes, as is the eu-navfor atalanta mission, which has done so much in the indian ocean to reduce piracy off the coast of somalia. as rapporteur both for the horn of africa and for the human rights report on the sahel, which went through this week in the house, i hear first hand from regional actors how valued the eu contribution is and how effective we can be when we coordinate our soft and hard power strategies. this applies to sticks as well as carrots, as evidenced by the eu-led sanctions now forcing president rouhani of iran to the negotiating table, and to the blacklisting of hezbollah, which sends the right message about terrorism internationally. nevertheless, one real problem that my group has with the brok cfsp report is its continued insistence on a permanent eu seat at the un security council, which the united kingdom cannot accept. in a sense, this is the key issue. foreign, security and defence policy can be coordinated, where appropriate, but ultimately, control must be intergovernmental. where collective decisions are being taken, they must be taken unanimously. we can support them in that case, but we cannot allow a situation to develop whereby small – or, for that matter, large – countries, such as my own, are forced to submit to policies and interests that they do not share with the others. we have more reservations as a group over the csdp, given that the eu has only two major military powers – france and the uk. but, where csdp missions can coexist effectively with nato without duplication, we are also happy to endorse a collective and constructive approach.
mr president, i would like to address baroness ashton. in your introduction to your final progress report on csdp a week ago, you were very clear about the primary reason for csdp, and i quote: ‘it is political and it concerns fulfilling europe’s ambitions on the world stage’. in other words, it is all about european integration. there are, of course, others, who cherished the naive hope that support for csdp will encourage reluctant states to contribute more, militarily, and use it. i fear that they will be disappointed. you spoke earlier of the eu’s operational expertise; this is truly smoke and mirrors. any military assets and expertise that you draw on come from our nations; the eu adds nothing. it does not matter how you dress it up: no csdp activities bear critical scrutiny. two thirds of the 7 000 personnel deployed on so-called eu csdp missions are civilians, and 23 of the 30 missions are civilian. it is not even true to say that the eu’s maritime operation has drastically reduced the scourge of piracy off the coast of somalia, as you said. for the most part, atalanta merely drew on the same small pool of national naval forces already providing ships for nato’s ocean shield. in reality, of course, the main factor in reducing pirate attacks in the red sea/indian ocean area was the introduction of on-board private armed security teams. if i thought for a moment that csdp was designed to help the european nations become more effective and capable defence contributors and alliance partners, then there might be some merit. but the eu has no military requirements different to those of nato. it may make sense for less-capable countries to get together to improve capabilities, provided they have the will to use them, but there is absolutely no need for the eu to be involved in any of this. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am always delighted to discuss these matters with my good friend and colleague arnaud danjean. yes, i did indeed visit the training mission in somalia. what was particularly interesting about it was that all those recruits that were being trained had been recruited by the united states and were paid for by the united states, and indeed moved there by the united states. the european commission delegation in entebbe had not even visited the eu training mission at the time we went there – so much for joined-up eu activity and a so-called comprehensive approach. my point is that there is no need for the european union to be involved in this. all those personnel that we saw doing training – and doing some excellent training – were provided by nations which for the most part are nato allies.
mr president, in this, the last annual cfsp report in the lifetime of this parliamentary term, i congratulate mr brok, but apologise that i have to use my own contribution to warn how the global influence of my own country – the united kingdom – would suffer, as has been demonstrated by the previous contribution, if conservative eurosceptics get their way and take britain out of the european union. international partners, including britain’s historic allies and friends in the world, have been clear. japan called on the uk to maintain a strong voice and continue to play a major role in the eu. australia told the uk that eu membership allows britain greater leverage in our global influence, and the obama administration warned britain that referendums, such as the one wanted by prime minister cameron, turn countries inward. that is the real alternative. remember, when putin’s adviser wanted to criticise british intelligence, he called us a small island that no one listens to. in norway, a country eurosceptics often cite, the head of their institute of international affairs said that his country’s relationship with the eu is not an alternative for britain as it is ‘complex and costly, as well as problematic in terms of democracy and the national interest’. even the uk government’s own so-called balance of competences review shows that foreign policy competences remain squarely with the member states and that most of the evidence argues strongly that it is in the uk’s interest to work through the eu. yet it is their ideology that leads them to ignore their own evidence. this year’s european foreign policy scorecard has already shown the british government prepared to give up leadership in six out of 19 areas of european foreign policy, despite the overall finding that in only one, during the last year, has there even been minor divergence between eu and uk goals. in this debate it is the individual merits of our high representative, not her nationality, that allow us to celebrate what i consider to be foreign policy successes: the mediation between serbia and kosovo, encouraging reforms in burma, leading the enormously important diplomacy on iran’s nuclear programme and combating piracy off the horn of africa. but i am proud that the high representative is british too, and that her personal success demonstrates how british foreign policy can sit comfortably at the heart of today’s european union. the british labour party offers a different vision. we understand that each of our countries stands taller and is able to build better alliances, win more trade deals and tackle global challenges, including climate change, by taking part in eu foreign policy and that this enhances, rather than threatens, our sovereignty. today we punch above our weight. tomorrow we might not even get in the ring. labour’s shadow foreign secretary argues that the eu amplifies british power and promotes our values, not just our interests.
mr president, libya was the most recent conflict directly concerning member states, and just 11 of the member states supported the un resolution. from this and other examples, it is clear that, in fact and reality, there is no – and i repeat no – common foreign and security policy between member states. what there is, is an eu foreign service – the external action service – apparently with 30 missions, and what that is, is a gigantic gravy train for eu insiders and their hangers-on. my amendment in june proposed that external action service personnel be restricted to ten weeks’ paid holiday a year. just 84 meps voted in favour. this is shameful, and i hope it will be very different in the next parliament. by the way, on a previous occasion, i have made it very clear how i regard the office and office-holder of the post of high representative. (the speaker was then given the floor for a point of order)
mr president, i have a point of order. is it in order for mr brok – whose report this is – to ostentatiously engage in irrelevant chat between himself and his acolyte while members of the european parliament are speaking in the chamber? mr president, in your view, is this in order?
mr president, i am sure that the high representative will be believed when she says she wants to promote democracy and the rule of law throughout the world. i am not an enthusiast for her position, but she rightly challenges and criticises countries that imprison opposition leaders on spurious or doubtful pretexts. of course, this does not just take place in former soviet republics or unstable regimes of the middle east or africa; it can also happen in member states. only a few weeks ago we saw several mp’s of greece’s third-strongest party arrested and detained on a ‘sovietesque’ charge of founding a criminal organisation. they are not, apparently, charged with complicity in the despicable murder of a left-wing activist, but their party has been transformed into a criminal organisation over night. i know nothing directly about golden dawn, and i certainly do not look at them through rose-tinted spectacles. but the rule of law cannot be observed selectively. we cannot pre-judge governments and opposition (…) (the speaker was cut off by the president)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, firstly i would just point out that one of the great political advantages for the member states of european union membership is the influence that we have through the european union on these types of international issues. this is the reason why the liberals and democrats are the party of ‘in europe’ and not ‘out of europe’. i think in europe we can influence the world; in europe we can defend our core liberal and democratic values – such as the clear separation of powers between the executive and the judicial institutions which we see in this case, and the fundamental right of people to democratic and fair elections. i saw this in practice when i was an eu electoral observer in pakistan earlier this year. this is why a european reaction to what is happening in the maldives is important, and i welcome the fact that the vice-president / high representative has been vocal and has raised concerns over the halting of the work of the election commission following police intervention. the role and the credibility of the election commission is crucial in order to give confidence to citizens. in addition, the organisation of elections cannot be either the job of political parties or indeed of the police. we have to ask ourselves what the police are doing as far as stopping these elections is concerned. what on earth are they doing there? the situation whereby lack of confidence in the supreme court and its judgments undermines the credibility of an election is deeply worrying. we need confidence in the separation of powers. given that the failure to hold credible elections would be to deny maldivian people their democratic rights – and i think we need to see these elections held as soon as possible – i would like to know what the eu is doing in terms of diplomatic dialogue. why was there not an eu election observation mission? are there plans for the eu to provide capacity-building with respect to judicial powers in the maldives? finally, is the commission considering, as a last resort, the possibility of pressure through international trade tools?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, 2008 saw the maldives’ first democratic election, in which mohamed nasheed became president, representing a turning point for the country. we all hoped, as friends of the maldives, for a future of multiparty politics and peaceful democratic rule in that small south asian island paradise. it is therefore with a mixture of alarm and profound regret that we have looked on the deteriorating situation over the past 18 months, with an effective coup ousting mdp president nasheed, followed by a political campaign waged against him for having dared to challenge sharia law in his country. the free and fair election last month therefore represented a fresh opportunity, which was comprehensively endorsed by the international community and observers. the supreme court’s decision, which was highly controversial, to now annul the result of the election which would have put mr nasheed comfortably on the path to being re-elected as president, and the forcible prevention by the police of a further poll, to me smacks of judicial and political interference in a clear, democratic process and is unacceptable. the people of the maldives deserve better than this. they must have their voices heard and their decisions respected. the constitutional crisis which looms in malé if a new president is not elected before the current president’s mandate expires could spell disaster for this small but dignified commonwealth nation. i therefore join colleagues in the house in calling for maldivian politicians to put the interests of their country before their own political futures and to help create a truly democratic society where it is the people, and not a small band of disfavoured elites allied to ex- president gayoom and the islamist parties, who determine the country’s future. we in the eu should apply maximum pressure to reverse the judicial coup.
blue-card question. – mr van dalen, thank you very much for taking the question. you rightly describe the charges brought against the greenpeace activists by russia as ridiculous. do you see it as desirable that russia sends a judge to the european court of human rights?
mr president, there is all this fuss over the activities of an unelected pressure group which was warned in advance not to invade the waters of a sovereign nation and break legitimate laws. no russian citizen has ever voted for greenpeace. they have no democratic mandate whatsoever. so imagine how much bigger the fuss would be if russia launched a totally illegal assault on a legitimately-elected political party. imagine if the russian government were to use the excuse of waves of lies from a controlled mass media to arrest the leaders of the opposition. imagine if president putin were to tear up the constitutional rights of democratically-elected parliamentarians and spit in the face of a growing body of opinion of up to 20 % of voters. we would never hear the end of it, and rightly so. but when these things happen in greece, you hypocrites either say nothing or actively applaud the repression. no one ever voted for greenpeace, but half a million greek voters have been disenfranchised by the attempted murder of golden dawn at the behest of eu bureaucrats, german bankers and zionist gangsters. this looters’ coup against the greek people by the puppets of the privatisation criminals is a thousand times more important than this artificial hysteria on behalf of an unelected, unrepresentative group of watermelon-green cranks. (murmurs of dissent)you do not like the truth, do you? you really should stop lecturing russia about a speck of dust in her eye when you have a large, splintered beam in your own.
mr president, just a few months ago i was aboard the greenpeace ship, the arctic sunrise, when it came to hastings in my region, and i met many of the crew. so it came as a shock to find that 30 activists aboard that ship had been detained by the russian authorities, including a constituent of mine, phillip ball. thankfully, the news is that the piracy charges have been dropped, but of course this still has to be confirmed. all they had been doing is peacefully protesting and highlighting the risks and dangers inherent in oil extraction in the arctic regions. they were speaking for all of us who, after the gulf of mexico oil spill, worry about extraction in even more vulnerable parts of the globe. it is now important that we do all we can to ensure that the 30 are treated according to decent standards or, better still, released with all charges dropped. that is why i am calling on baroness ashton to press the russian authorities on this issue and to use the forthcoming foreign affairs council on 21 november to create a coordinated eu position. that way, at their next detention hearing in november, we can start to secure their release, get them home for christmas and start working with gazprom to really ensure safe exploration in the arctic.
madam president, it is clear that ionising radiation incidental to commercial, medical and other day-to-day activities must be carefully controlled. i think the utmost protection to ensure the lowest possible risk of negative health effects, particularly to workers, must be maintained. on that basis, i think it is sensible to revisit this legislation and associated procedures periodically to ensure that they are in keeping with the best scientific evidence available and to consider the experience of implementation in the different member states. we must also ensure that the procedures and protections are simple and easy to understand and implement. we need to cut red tape in the area, where possible, and maintain efficiency in working environments where exposure to ionising radiation could occur. i think that consolidating a number of pieces of legislation into a single piece of legislation fits the bill in this respect. this is also why i proposed my own amendments on the licensing of those organisations that use these procedures on a regular basis, to ensure that they would not need to seek authorisation every single time they needed to use these procedures. i think that is again cutting red tape in this respect. i would also like to say that i completely agree with the commissioner on the issue of frequent flyers. i think this is bureaucracy going too far, and i do not think it is practicable. overall, i think it is crucial that we achieve best practice and high standards of work and protection to minimise the dangers arising from exposure to these different forms of ionising radiation.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, the eu’s climate and energy policies are probably unnecessary, certainly ineffectual and ruinously expensive. unnecessary, because the theory of man-made climate change is increasingly disputed, and there has been no global warming for nearly two decades. the earth’s climate system is complex, chaotic and poorly understood. it is absurd to think that man-made co2 is the only driver of climate. ineffectual, because with 1 200 new coal-fired power stations in the global pipeline, nothing we do in the eu will make a scrap of difference. levels of atmospheric co2 will rise for decades whatever we do. ruinously expensive: energy commissioner oettinger said that europe cannot continue to follow a unilateral climate policy. commissioner antonio tajani said we face ‘an industrial massacre’, and he is right: businesses are moving out of the eu taking jobs and investment with them, and households are being forced into fuel poverty. thousands of pensioners will die of cold in europe this winter. it is time to abandon our obsession with co2 and start to prioritise reliable and affordable energy supplies.
author. − mr president, it is very good to see the commissioner here this morning, but it would have been even better if we could have met before the proposal was put. it is not common for eu institutions to criticise each other, let alone for one department to criticise another within the same institution. yet we have the european parliament impact assessment unit criticising the commission, and the commission impact assessment board criticising the commission’s impact assessment, not once but three times. not only that, but we have a paper from the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) pointing to many flaws in this commission proposal, including such sins as unnecessary complexity and greater legal uncertainty; no consultation and analysis; misleading, inaccurate comparisons with the usa; no reference to the dynamics of next generation networks; citing market fragmentation in europe with no evidence that innovation or investment has been hindered; insufficient recognition of berec progress towards regulatory harmonisation (they would say that, of course); no specific assessment of the impact on smes; and so on and so forth. then we have the commentary by rewheel, which debunks the idea that european consumers are worse off than us citizens on cost, use of mobile data and network speeds – not quite what the commission tells us in order to justify this proposal. of more concern are the sneaky transfers of sovereignty from member states to the commission in the fields of authorisation, spectrum harmonisation and net neutrality. member states: you have been warned! in short, this seems like nothing so much as a vanity project of legacy legislation, tackling too many things and trying to run before it can walk. many answers are needed.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, i am very pleased to be here this morning, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, because we worked very closely with catherine trautmann to add a number of important elements to her initial report, in particular about users’ rights. i would just remind you that my committee has had a consistent record, first of all in championing the single market – we need no lessons about that – but particularly because of the real importance of consumer rights and offering consumers that vital information – the ability to switch providers, and understanding the quality of service and any restrictions that may be applied to it, which are vital for the single market. our argument is that we have advanced significantly in that respect, particularly with the reforms that my committee added in 2009. the commissioner talked about contract terms. we added significantly to the commission’s original proposal in 2009, and we do not need any further lessons about that. i would say to the commissioner – because, in a way, we are talking about her new proposal – that my committee and my shadows have met already, and we are very disturbed about the fact that you have gone for fully-harmonised regulation. i see that the prime ministers agree with us on the need for more flexibility. we need to do a lot of work on this proposal, but we would have made much more significant progress if you had sent it to us as an amendment to our existing directive. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, certainly, i was involved in drafting the provisions in 2009 about quality of service and giving the regulators the ability to intervene if they saw that service quality was being used in an anti-competitive way, and indeed if operators had already blocked, restricted or throttled services in a discriminatory way. berec, the regulators, have already told the commissioner that they feel they have powers to deal with the net neutrality problems that are currently emerging. i think that the problem that we will look at closely in the commissioner’s new proposal is whether she is trying to anticipate potential problems as opposed to dealing with existing problems. it is not the philosophy of telecom legislation to try and anticipate problems but to allow the market to work, as she would agree.
mr president, actually i was going to enquire whether the commissioner was going to give me a written answer to my questions, since she so elegantly has not answered them in the debate today. i look forward to hearing from her.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, it seems to me that this debate should be more a question of procedure than a question of substance. it is obvious that, in the short term, we have to find a solution to avert this crisis and avert the risk of shutdown. i am satisfied that the council has taken the right, appropriate and responsible decisions, and i am confident this house will do so too. in the longer term, however, we need to think hard about measures we can take to reduce the risk of finding ourselves in this position once again. it seems obvious to me that, because we are working within the constraints of a smaller budget; because we have considerably increased the spending on heading 1a – something which i welcome and fully support; and because we have not at the same time radically altered spending on other headings, we will find ourselves forced to operate within much tighter budget margins in the future. the likelihood of finding ourselves back in difficulty would thus increase. can i take this opportunity, therefore, to encourage the commission to review the way that information is communicated to the other institutions? certainly this house, as a responsible scrutiny body, needs better-quality information, and that information needs to be more readily accessible to the members. as a last thought, i suggest that it is time to review the architecture of the budget. take the example of the ongoing liability of the outstanding commitments which we are building up. in the long term, this is an unsustainable liability. is it not time that we looked at it again?
mr president, in relation to the statement made about the staff who work for parliament: parliamentarians accept responsibility for this house, and we should never shift it to members of staff who cannot defend themselves.
mr president, on a point of order, in light of mr cashman’s comments, could i request that a member of staff come to the bar of the house and explain what happened yesterday?
in writing. − against. while i ardently support a single seat for the european parliament, i am against the suggested eur 50 million additional payment this report suggests.
in writing. − many of our constituents have had to practise sensible, careful long-term management of their finances in the wake of europe’s financial crisis. yet, despite the votes here in parliament today, agreement on a large proportion of the european union’s budgeting, including our crucial long-term budget for 2014-2020, is still pending. we must prove to our constituents that parliament can use the opportunity it has to negotiate annual and long-term budgets in order to secure smart and targeted spending of taxpayers’ money, to deliver on growth and job creation.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 - all sections. my party is against the vast majority of measures this report outlines, including allocating more money to the european social fund, the european regional development fund, intelligent energy europe programme ii and action on climate change. we are completely against allocating an additional eur 1 billion for sustainable rural development, an extra eur 2 million for frontex, an extra eur 34 million for the common european asylum system, an additional eur 40 million for the asylum and migration fund, a further eur 80 million for sustainable energy and an additional eur 100 million for the eu globalisation adjustment fund. in short, we are against all increases in payments and the increased commitment of the uk to the eu that these payments represent.
in writing. − mr president, in the context of what is a more restrained budget – albeit a budget that is still vast and still offers opportunities to reduce wasteful spending – it is welcome to see the priority given in sections of the budget to measures that can be of real benefit to our constituents in this time of economic difficulty. at a time when unemployment – particularly among our youth – is a massive challenge, the task of government, whether at member state level or here in the eu institutions, ought to be to direct resources towards job creation, growth, innovation and driving our economy, through further research and development. i also welcome moves to increase transparency in how money is spent, including our own budgets as meps, and i was supportive of those amendments. when we are entrusted with public money, we have a responsibility to spend it wisely and appropriately.
in writing. − i abstained on this draft general budget for 2014 as it is an austerity budget, even though headway has been made in certain areas. wales benefits a great deal from european funding, and any budget cuts would only have a detrimental effect on that funding coming to wales.
in writing. − today i voted in favour of parliament’s position on the 2014 budget. i feel this is a reasonable budget position that takes account of the difficult economic situation across the continent. it represents a 5% cut compared with 2013, and despite it being an election year we have managed to ensure a real-terms freeze in parliament’s budget.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i do not think an increase to the european parliament’s budget is the response to the current crisis. i believe that money is not always well spent within the budget and we should be focusing on jobs and growth. there is scope to make the european parliament’s budget more efficient, and this should be looked at more closely by the parliament.
in writing. − i voted against the 2014 budget as i believe it fails to redirect spending into projects to boost employment and infrastructure.
in writing. − the need for reduced eu spending remains clear and i am disappointed that this report on the european parliament’s position, voted upon today, does not recognise this. however what is also desperately needed at european level is better spending! as mep for wales, i recognise the importance of the european union’s cohesion policy and its structural funding. yet, these funds will not deliver the growth that they need to, unless they are invested wisely. i hope that in wales (and across the member states of the eu) better spending will be the guiding principle going forwards and that new envelopes of eu funding for 2014 and beyond, will focus on investing the money where it is most needed and where it can generate real results.
in writing. − we fully support the british prime minister’s efforts to cut the eu budget. it should be cut even further as there is enormous scope for cutting the costs of the european institutions, as revealed by the study by the think-tank new direction. in this regard, i did not support the amendment referring to the european parliament’s external offices in member states as it was not strong enough. i believe that all of these offices should be cut.
in writing. − i supported measures in the eu budget that provide vital funding for jobs and growth, research and innovation and the structural funds. making sure that wales and other uk regions have access to these funds is crucial if we are to reverse some of the damage that has been done by austerity policies. i was disappointed to see that coalition and ukip meps opposed minimum standards for jobs funded under the youth jobs guarantee. we need to make sure that young people are given all the help possible to find jobs and apprenticeships – this will help to reduce the large numbers of young people currently out of work. there were aspects of parliament’s position that made it impossible for me to give my full support. these included spending on harmful export refunds in the agriculture sector, subsidies for tobacco and bullfighting and above-inflation increases for some european institutions.
in writing. − i voted against this report as my party believes that the potential merits of seabed mapping are far outweighed by the negative effects associated with the eu gaining more control over the sea and seabed.
in writing. − the agri-food and biosciences institute (afbi) has been working extensively on mapping the seabed around northern ireland and today has some of the most detailed maps available anywhere. around two years ago afbi was approached by representatives of the northern ireland fishing industry who were conscious that, with the onset of a variety of challenges most notably in respect of marine spatial planning, marine protected areas and offshore renewable energy projects, there was a need to assimilate all the available information to create a database or map that could visually demonstrate the importance of the marine environment to fishermen. this joint project has already had positive results for fishermen, one of them being to demonstrate the importance of key fishing habitats and zones where proposals for the development of offshore energy projects are being pursued. when fishermen can visually demonstrate the impacts of various offshore projects and marine policies in terms of the displacement of their activities, as well as the effects on the environment on which they depend, this kind of collaboration becomes an important tool.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report that focuses on the importance of incorporating fisheries data into the marine knowledge seabed mapping and ocean forecasting green paper. it is very important for the welsh fishing industry that accurate data, directly sourced from these industries, are used when creating marine policy.
in writing. − i am really pleased to see this report stressing the importance of the need to better understand our seabeds. it is vital that the potential of such knowledge is not underestimated. by improving our knowledge of our seabeds we can not only strengthen the effectiveness of measures to protect our marine environments, but we can also unlock great potential for innovation and job creation in our fisheries sector. this must comprise an important element of eu marine policy going forwards and it will be vital in achieving the commitment to support sustainable and competitive fishing industries, which we have outlined in the reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − abstain. i abstained from voting as while my party supports international trade rules, we are against the eu.
in writing. − trade – whether international or within the eu – should adhere to standardised rules, many of which emanate from this place. one of the more positive aspects of the european union is the importance of the single market for free trade between member states. unfortunately for the uk, and in particular for milk producers in northern ireland, we have a situation pertaining whereby the republic of ireland is complicit in a campaign which restricts milk entering their market, a purely protectionist measure. through the use of the national dairy council logo, which guarantees milk is produced in the irish republic for the irish domestic retail market, milk processors and farmers from northern ireland are being excluded. at the very least this is against the spirit of the single market if not illegal, therefore i would urge the commission to investigate this practice as a matter of urgency. furthermore, i would call on the roi government and those who support the ndc campaign to recognise that, if harvest 2020 targets are to be achieved, this protectionist policy against the uk must stop. forget at your peril that an agri-food sector which is highly dependable on exports cannot afford to be protectionist.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that there is a need for broadening the scope of a commission proposal designed to establish a horizontal instrument. this instrument would enable the eu to conduct swift trade retaliation in the event that a trading partner does not respect international trade rulings delivered pursuant to the wto or ftas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the application and enforcement of international trade rules as i aim to discourage the unfair trading practices between trading partners within the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the proposal to strengthen the enforcement of the eu’s trade rights in trade agreements and i am pleased that this report facilitates a role for the european parliament’s international trade committee, via the holding of regular exchanges of views with the european commission on matters relating to trade dispute management.
in writing. − i voted for the exercise of the union’s rights in the application and enforcement of international trade rules. i did so because i believe that there is a need to create a legal framework for the eu to enforce its rights in international trade disputes and conciliation. with common commercial policy being an exclusive competence of the eu, and the number of global trade disputes rising, i think that there is a need for this framework to be implemented. this is because this framework will allow fast and effective decision-making, in relation to retaliatory measures the union could take in response to any unfair trading practices from our trading partners.
in writing. − i voted against this report is it demonstrates yet another attempt by the eu to seize taxpayers’ money to plunder people’s fisheries.
in writing. − today i opposed fleet renewal and engine replacement as i feel they are detrimental to the fishing industry and could potentially lead to overfishing. scotland needs a fisheries management regime that will protect our marine environment and secure the economic future of our fishing industry. the improvement in data collection for stocks fished in the eu is the vital step to ensure the environmental sustainability of the fish stocks available. to reinstate eu subsidies for building new fishing boats would on the other hand have been a crazy step backwards. we still have too many boats chasing too few fish, so to use public money to pay for building new boats would only make the problem worse.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will help fishermen adapt to the reforms that we have already voted on the common fisheries policy. in scotland my constituents want to see sustainable fishing, support for coastal communities to diversify their economies and for it to be easier for fishermen and their communities to access financing. this report makes moves towards this and that is why i voted in its favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european maritime and fisheries fund because i believe in a more sustainable, innovative and competitive maritime and fishing industry.
in writing. − the european maritime and fisheries fund must be allowed to fully support the sustainable fisheries policies that we have secured as a part of the common fisheries policy reforms. i, like many of my colleagues here, represent a constituency with a strong and vibrant small boat fishing sector and i know that the fisherman in my constituency recognise the value of a sound fisheries policy; one that supports a thriving fishing industry, protects our marine environments and promotes sustainable fishing practices. i hope that we can deliver an emff that fully supports our fishing communities in reaching these goals, whilst stopping the wasteful and uncompetitive application of these funds for commercial refitting of fleets with no environmental basis.
in writing. − the common fisheries policy (cfp) has been a disaster for the fish and for our fishermen. thanks to the efforts of conservative ministers and meps, along with others, some much overdue reform is now underway. ensuring that progress is not undermined by an opaque funding mechanism is essential. i have long supported a sustainable and localised fishing industry and voted to block measures that would have seen a return to using british taxpayers’ money paying for renewal of spanish and french fishing fleets which are already well over capacity. i want to benefit our local fishermen. i voted in support of measures that prioritise the needs of small-scale and coastal fisheries, including more emphasis on helping local, sustainable management of fish stocks. i also voted to support small-scale projects for coastal fisheries development and for simplifying the funding process for our local fishermen. the ecr group was able to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − today i, along with my fellow labour meps, voted for investment in more fish, not new boats. i did so because i oppose subsidies for building new vessels, which would have been a step backwards and could potentially jeopardise the reform process. i believe that this vote represents a positive step in the introduction of stronger measures and penalties to ensure that fishermen keep to the rules of the reformed common fisheries policy. i also supported more funds for data collection, control and enforcement that will help ensure that fishing is sustainable and stocks remain healthy into the future. although labour would have liked to see a more ambitious outcome that ruled out all measures known to contribute to overfishing, the steps that the whole parliament has taken to delete the most harmful subsidies are a key sign of its continued commitment to reformed rules for sustainable fishing.
in writing. − this report on the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) will determine the future funding for the common fisheries policy (cfp) and the integrated maritime policy (imp). earlier this year labour meps supported historic reforms of the eu’s common fisheries policy that will ensure we preserve fish stocks for future generations so today we voted for an emff that will support, and not hamper, those reforms. the largest part of the emff’s eur 6.5 billion budget will go towards supporting the cfp, with the allocation of funding to member states reflecting the importance of each state’s fishing industry. fishing must be sustainable, so labour meps voted against subsidies for fleet renewal, which would lead to over-capacity and over-fishing. in order to support the aims of the reformed cfp, we voted to support measures that would promote sustainable fishing, such as training for fishermen, better enforcement of rules and financial aid to improve management, monitoring and control of fish stocks.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. the recently-published findings of the international panel on climate change (ipcc) showed that scientists are now 95 % certain that climate change is the result of human activities. yet we still hear the false arguments of the usual naysayers, willing to disregard scientific evidence in this matter. in november, the annual un climate change conference will take place in warsaw, where it is hoped progress will be made towards the global climate deal that is expected to be finalised during the paris conference in 2015. however, the eu should not be using any possible delay as an excuse not to act itself. we are currently working on the 2030 framework for climate change, and it is essential that we step up our climate-change ambitions: not only to lower greenhouse gas emissions – important as they are – but also to create jobs from low-carbon technologies.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i am opposed to the eu’s green agenda in its entirety.
in writing. − the impact of climate change on our planet cannot be confined to member state or european union borders, therefore i do believe that it is important that we work with other parties to the un framework convention on climate change, to come up with the right global responses to the challenges climate change poses. however, given our lack of competitiveness currently, particularly with regards to our energy costs, we need to refrain from aggressive new targets. the upward revision of the 2020 emissions reduction target from 20% to 30%, an unconditional 50% reduction target for 2030, and the financial transaction tax (ftt) for the financing of future climate change mitigation measures are disappointing inclusions at this time of economic challenge.
in writing. − i have voted for the establishment of a programme for the environment and climate action. i was happy to see that the final agreement allowed the vat cost of the staff involved with life projects to remain eligible for funding, as i am aware that this was an important issue for many local authorities in the uk. i believe that the new ‘integrated projects’ are a positive development, as they will bring together eu, national and private funds in support of the implementation of major eu environmental legislation, covering areas like water, waste, air quality and nature protection. i was also pleased to see more generous co-financing rates for integrated projects for priority nature, biodiversity and conservation projects.
in writing. − criminal justice matters should be handled exclusively by the individual nation states. the eu, and in particular schengen, is the catalyst for much cross-border crime, and is therefore not fit to be part of the solution.
in writing. − all too often, innocent people in my constituency, northern ireland, have had to bear incalculable pain and suffering wrought by the relationship between organised crime and terrorism. recent efforts to combat serious crime in northern ireland – and particularly fuel laundering – have been stalled by the willingness of nationalist and republican politicians to block the national crime agency (nca) from operating in our region of the uk. this approach has been motivated by self-interest, and must change fast. the committee’s report does contain several positive elements. its proposed action plan prioritises stemming the rise in human trafficking and cigarette smuggling. it also aims to tackle new offences relating to cybercrime and the spread of banned legal highs. this is positive. i am, however, discouraged by the report’s fascination with harmonising tax provisions and creating a european public prosecutor. member states must retain full sovereignty in these areas and i trust that the uk government will continue to ensure that this is the case moving forward. i have therefore abstained on the report.
in writing. − the position of the greens/efa group has always been in favour of developing evidence-based law enforcement, preventing the stigmatisation of migrants and ethnic minorities and prioritising white collar and economic crimes as those inflict the highest social harm. for this reason it is very welcome that this report covered the related issues of corruption and money laundering, which highlight the links between organised crime and tax havens. however, the report failed to provide a convincing answer to the challenges presented by organised crime, corruption and money laundering. we cannot oversimplify the various threats posed and recommend a one-size-fits-all approach based on repression and surveillance. i abstained on the final vote as it endorsed an eu passenger name records system and eu terrorist finance tracking system. i do not believe my constituents in wales would agree with this.
in writing. − the ecr group are committed to the fight against organised crime, and support a strong response at eu level in the fight against terrorism, cybercrime, human trafficking and money laundering. whilst we support many of the recommendations within this final report, we do not support the creation of a european public prosecutor’s office, or european wide taxation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of legislation for organised crime, corruption, and money laundering as i believe in better universal justice against criminality within the european union.
in writing. − organised crime and corruption is an area where i believe member states can and should work together to develop strategies to tackle cross-border crimes such as money laundering, terrorism and cybercrime. however, we must be careful to ensure that we only look to measures that are appropriate and that also respect the role of member states.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of this resolution on the european neighbourhood policy, which rightly notes the importance of strengthening the eu’s partnerships with its neighbours on the basis of a mutual commitment to common values such as democracy and human rights.
in writing. − today i voted for the motion for a resolution on the european neighbourhood policy. i believe that this motion is an important part of the establishment of key instruments to provide more support to partner countries building deep and sustainable democracy and to support inclusive economic development. i am happy to see that the eu has strengthened political and financial assistance for its partners embarking on political reforms. i am in favour of this motion because the enp provides the eu with a toolbox of instruments that allows each partner to adapt its policy approach and response, in a way that is tailored to their individual political context and relationship with the eu.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i am against the concept of economic convergence that lies at its heart. i also believe that unemployment as an issue is best tackled by the member states as individuals, not centrally by the commission.
in writing. − once again i find myself having to oppose a european parliament report that supports the introduction of a financial transaction tax. evidence continually demonstrates that an ftt would damage our economies and hamper our recovery, at a time when it is more vital than ever that we back only measures that will support it.
mr president, earlier this month up to 300 people drowned off the coast of lampedusa, off sicily, and i welcome the motion for raising the subject in the house. this tragic event brings the number of refugees who have lost their lives whilst crossing the mediterranean sea from north africa during the past decade to over 6 000. it is clear that action needs to be taken to prevent any further loss of life, but it is important that we do so by tackling not just the consequences of illegal migration but also the causes. the personal stories of migrants attempting to reach europe are not to be envied. people are fleeing the single-party-state politics of eritrea, the destruction and destitution of north africa in the wake of the arab spring, the horrors of al-shabaab in somalia, and worse. whilst the eu has a number of measures at its disposal to tackle the situation – and of course this is primarily a competence of the member states – we must be reminded of the very real need to improve lives by giving aid and trade concessions and making the chance for people to remain in their own home countries much more of a reality. it is only by doing this that we will remove the incentive for people to embark on these perilous crossings in the first place.
in writing. − against i voted against this report as my party is opposed to the greater dispersal/sharing of immigrants between member states that it calls for.
in writing. − the events that occurred off the coast of lampedusa were a terrible tragedy. i am glad that this european parliament resolution is evaluating what we can do to better support the control of mediterranean migratory flows and prevent further loss of life.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion on migratory flows in the mediterranean. i hope that this motion will help prevent any repetition of the tragedies of lampedusa. i believe that the new eurosur programme for border protection will radically improve the coordination of sea-rescues, and the identification of refugees making dangerous voyages in over-crowed, unseaworthy boats. hopefully, this motion will help to clarify the responsibility of states to launch rescue missions for vessels stranded and in distress in their oceans. further, i am pleased to see that the commission has acknowledged politically that the obligation to save and rescue prevails over all other rules and laws.
mr president, the revelations made by edward snowden have raised questions on both sides of the atlantic as to the extent and acceptability of the nsa’s surveillance activities. these questions are rightly being asked. however, we must be very careful before taking action here in the european union. before authorising the swift agreement, there were demands in this parliament for greater privacy protection to be incorporated, and it was. this was a good example of allies working together, ensuring security whilst protecting the rights of eu citizens. if there were evidence that the terms of this agreement had been broken, it would be prudent to consider some form of investigation first, but the directors of both europol and swift have given assurances to this house that this is not the case. the sharing of financial information in the pursuit of terrorism and organised crime is vital to the security of eu member states, the united states and the free world. i am pleased that my group, the ecr, supported the swift agreement back in 2010, and i strongly oppose the motion for suspension. frankly, we have no power to do so anyway in this parliament, and it would, of course, damage the city of london – which is the region that i represent – and its financial markets.
in writing. − i abstained from voting in this case as, while there may have been a clear breach of the eu-us agreement here, the issue of a state spying on its own citizens is a difficult and sensitive matter which should he handled with great care.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the suspension of the swift agreement between the us and the eu. until a robust agreement can be achieved that ensures without doubt the protection of bank details and transfer information of everyone in the eu, we cannot allow an agreement such as this to go forward. the protection of our privacy is a cornerstone of democracy, values that are very important to my constituents in wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that any information exchange between countries should be pursued through the rule of law and subject to fundamental rights obligations. the resolution reiterated the need for countries to respect these laws and rights.
in writing. − i fully appreciate the concern that recent accusations suggesting that the nsa has been monitoring communications within the eu have caused and i am supportive of a thorough investigation into these allegations being carried out by member states and the european commission. however, until such an investigation has taken place, i do not believe that it is right, or responsible, to suspend what is a critically important flow of financial information, vitally important to monitoring capital movements especially for criminal and anti-terrorist purposes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the suspension of the tftp agreement. i did so because i believe that we as a union need to safeguard the personal data and privacy rights of eu citizens. i agree that the current procedure for exercising the right of access may not be adequate in protecting these rights, as in practice it is not always possible to exercise the right to rectification, erasure and blocking. i am pleased to see that the commission has acknowledged the long-term ambition of the eu to establish a system which allows the extraction of data to take place on eu soil.
in writing. − i always oppose any handout of extra cash to the european commission. however, in the case of amending budget number 6, which was voted today to make up for shortfalls in excise and vat resources, i abstained, given that we were informed by hm treasury that the recalculation resulted in a reduction to the british contribution.
in writing. − against the eu is facing quite a financial predicament here – however, it is not the 28 member states’ job to bail them out. if the eu can demand that countries like greece and portugal sell their assets to raise money, then why not the eu as well – starting with the vast chunks of expensive real estate they hold in brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg?
in writing. − in this vote i abstained. despite the fact that one of our amendments succeeded, it is not a strong enough deal for my constituents in wales. wales profits enormously from eu funding and during times of such economic hardship, wales needs investment, not austerity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on dab6. although it is disappointing that the commission announced that it had problems with payments only two weeks before it would have been unable to pay its bills, it is essential to ensure that beneficiaries of eu funds are paid. i now hope the council will agree on dab8 so that we can vote on the mff at the next plenary session in november.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it was a technical report on the revision of the forecast of tor, vat and gni bases.
in writing. − i opted to abstain in this vote on the draft amending budget 6. this amending budget is another example of the poor budget management that is so unacceptable at eu level. our constituents need to see evidence of sound budgetary supervision from the european commission, instead of these sorts of last-minute requests for funds to cover shortfalls that should have already been identified.
in writing. − i supported today's vote to amend the 2013 budget. making sure that the eu is a position to pay its bills is important. we are now seeing bills for many projects coming in from member states and the commission needs to be in a position to honour commitments it has made. this amending budget was a technical measure to adjust revenue due to a fall in import and customs duties and saved the uk gbp 352 million. in future, there needs to be more clarity from the commission regarding the current situation with the eu budget, but i am pleased that this issue has been resolved swiftly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as, although i am not convinced of the worth of public-private partnerships which are mentioned in this report and am against any steps towards the privatisation of water, there remains a very comprehensive overview of the eu environment with a lot of excellent inclusions.
in writing. − against i voted against this report as this programme has, to date, proven to be unnecessary, ineffective and ridiculously expensive, and i do not believe that a penny more of the taxpayers’ money should be wasted on it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it should see us step with confidence towards our eu 2020 goals. i am proud that the parliament has strengthened a number of key policy areas such as targets on co2 reductions and targets on land, material, carbon and water footprint. wales is committed to sustainability and fighting climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it was a technical report. it means that the uk will save gbp 352 million. the commission may run out of money soon and it is important that the eu can continue to function without going into unnecessary debt. i was pleased that the parliament approved this report.
in writing. − whilst european environment policy has given us some of the tools we need to tackle the environmental challenges our planet faces, there is no doubt that there remains much room for improvement. this environment action programme must take the opportunity it has to get the legislation we already have in place working properly and to put eu environment policy on the right tracks as we head towards 2020.
in writing. − against. i voted against this report as it does little more than create more unnecessary regulation in relation to both natural and artificial radioactivity exposure.
in writing. − i voted against this report. given the fact that the amendment to change the legal base to the commission’s proposal failed, it was not possible to vote in favour of the report. currently the european parliament can only give its opinion on this matter, without a legal base to allow it a say in the legislation. the people of wales deserve an eu that is democratic, and a european parliament with an influence over all legislation is the only way to achieve that.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will help protect my constituents from any potential dangers from radiation. measures introduced by this report include, strciter limits on strength of radiation, more random checks, better training for personnel handling dangerous substances and greater transparency.
in writing. − once again this session we are looking at a report that tackles another very important issue relating to public health. i believe this may well be another area where we need to take a smarter approach to our legislating, firmly prioritising the protection of public health (in this case against the dangers of ionising radiation) but also ensuring that we avoid placing administrative burdens on industry where the health or protection grounds are not clear.
mr president, i voted against the report on the common foreign and security policy, as it calls for greater cooperation within the eu, and between the eu and nato. unfortunately, this directs the eu towards even greater militarisation, which merely tackles the symptoms, rather than the causes, of global inequalities. today half of the world’s population live in poverty, with one person in eight suffering from malnutrition. poverty kills approximately 19 people globally every minute of every day. nineteen people will have died from poverty during the time it will take me to speak here. that is absolutely shocking. in 2011, usd 1 738 billion was spent globally on military expenditure. this is a disgraceful misuse of public funds. through positive neutrality, sinn féin supports greater funding for programmes for human rights which would lift people out of poverty. after all, poverty is one of the greatest causes of instability, conflict and human suffering.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of amendment 6 to the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the cfsp because the amendment stresses that international trade needs to be based on social rights and standards on health, environment and labour conditions. in addition, the amendment stresses the importance of including a broad range of stakeholders in international trade negotiations, which i support. however, my support for amendment 6 does not mean that i support the eu-us ttip-negotiations. nor do i believe that ttip will bring growth and welfare to ordinary citizens – or that ttip should serve as a trade model for other regions and global actors.
in writing. − i voted against this report as i see this policy as little more than a drain on taxpayers’ hard-earned money.
in writing. − i abstained from this vote, as a number of amendments were rejected, making this a very weak report. the eu is in a unique position globally and has the power to influence the international stage; that is why wales is proud to be a part of the eu. however, the eu could certainly do more in this regard and should work better within its borders.
in writing. − this is a deep and thoughtful report with many proposals with which the european parliamentary labour party strongly agrees. but i regret we had to vote against overall, retaining our clear opposition to ideas in the text for a single eu seat in the un, for an eu defence headquarters, for permanent structured cooperation on defence, for a higher multiannual financial framework or the suggestion for a ‘new’ rather than evolving eu foreign policy.
in writing. − i voted against this report because it contained points which i do not support. for example, the report called for the establishment of a permanent military operational headquarters for the eu and an eu seat on the un security council. i believe that member states are best placed to protect their citizens in foreign policy and this is not the direction eu evolution should be going in.
in writing. − with so many difficult tasks still ahead for the european union, i would really like to see this parliament focusing on the vital areas in which the eu does have competence, such as the single market, or the environment, or investment in research and development. not, as we are here, on the expansion of european union defence policy, which is an area that rightly remains the competence of the member state.
in writing. − against. while this report raises some sensible points, it ultimately amounts to yet another transfer of power to the eu – i therefore voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is an important step towards a digital single market. fast broadband connections and excellent 3g and 4g reception are key to businesses and ordinary citizens in wales. without this, whole communities are in danger of becoming isolated. thus the call for member states to make electronic communications a much higher priority is to be welcomed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because its aim was to set a comprehensive and straightforward overview on the state of implementation and analysis of the telecoms package. new challenges have emerged in this market and we need to make sure regulation keeps up so as not to restrict anyone and to keep consumers protected.
in writing. − a fully functioning digital single market for europe holds a wealth of potential for growth and job creation. it is the completion of these sorts of single market initiatives that we must prioritise if we really want to encourage our economies to move forwards.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, a lot of work has been put into the reorganisation of this programme over the last 18 months and i have to say that, about a year ago, i did vote against the parliament’s position on this programme. at that point my group had major concerns about a number of issues: the budget size and the master’s loan guarantee, to name but two. however, following the trialogue under the irish presidency, the text has developed for the better. it is not perfect, but it is better. in my own country the erasmus programme is seen as something that really works, the eu is seen to be adding value somehow, and i am hopeful that this programme will continue to allow young people to take advantage of the opportunity to study overseas, learn new skills and experience different cultures. however, i still remain deeply disappointed and sceptical towards the vast sums that have been attributed to the jean monnet funding which goes towards promoting european integration and training the brussels elite. i find it outrageous that parliament has elected to spend more on training its own bureaucrats than on a new area of competence: sport. however, on a positive note, i am pleased that sport has for the first time been given a dedicated budget, although i would have been happy to have given sport an even larger part of the erasmus budget. but i particularly welcome the focus on grassroots sport. these are the people that can really benefit from this. so the text is not perfect but together i and my group will vote in favour of this final agreement as it provides opportunities for young people and for vocational training, and i am hopeful that these opportunities will benefit not only those that participate but also the wider economy.
mr president, i will not be congratulating anybody, because what is erasmus? it is simply a glorified student exchange programme which we could do without the existence of the eu. united kingdom universities have numerous exchange programmes all over the world without needing to be in a political union. erasmus is not really about educational excellence is it? you get to cynically use young people to further your political aims. amendments 42 and 78 say that the programme is aimed at supporting the eu’s external action and should promote european values – that says it all, doesn’t it? you want a greater european identity in sport and a call for a european sports day so inevitably that logo is going to be on our sports shirts. you call for the fast-tracking of visas to promote labour mobility. what you mean is that we must have an open-door immigration policy, and i have just heard a conservative mep support that. finally, you want 40% of 30 to 34 year-olds to have completed higher education, so we can assume the lib dems will be voting for higher tuition fees again. and look at the cost of it: eur 17.2 billion! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i have three sons: two of them are at university; one of them is doing some work. i do not think they need the european union to tell them how hard to work. i am not insulting young people at all. what worries me is the way they are being used by the european union to further its own objectives. throw money at young people, tell them how wonderful the eu is, and they will vote for it!
mr president, in his book in praise of folly, erasmus castigates various establishment groups of his day, and it still makes amusing reading 500 years later. in his criticism of theologians he says: ‘they will proclaim me a heretic. with this thunderbolt they terrify the people they don’t like. their opinion of themselves is so great that they behave as if they were already in heaven; they look down pityingly on other men as so many worms. a wall of imposing definitions, conclusions, corollaries, and explicit and implicit propositions protects them. they are full of big words and newly-invented terms.’ it is unintended irony, surely, to associate the name of erasmus with the european union, the greatest folly of our age.
madam president, i strongly welcome the fact that the connecting europe funding agreement will finally be voted on this week. however, it is a shame that member states massively cut this funding scheme, as proposed by the commission, for energy, transport and telecommunications infrastructure, as these are concrete instruments for jobs and growth. it is also a shame that member states could not agree on a budget for growth focused on smart investment and smart spending, because investment in infrastructure is essential for connecting europe better and is vital not only to boost the single market but also for millions of european citizens and businesses. the united kingdom, as an export-orientated nation, will benefit not only from investments on its territory – the high speed 2 rail route is included, although i have to say that the tories have kept very quiet about this – but also from better interconnection with and within continental europe. a business needs to move its goods from a to b across europe in the most efficient and sustainable way. we can achieve that, for the environment and for our economy, only as the united kingdom in europe, and by being part of the connecting europe scheme.
mr president, by its nature, citizenship can only be of a political state. all british citizens were made citizens of the european union in 1993 without their consent. few realise that this also includes our supposedly sovereign head of state, her majesty the queen. under the still-existing english constitution, the head of state cannot be subject to a higher political authority. the english monarch is the physical embodiment of the sovereignty of the nation, and that is the fundamental problem at the heart of british membership of the european union. the british people still imagine that they are a free and sovereign people, and yet they are not. the issue can only be resolved by them, by a democratic decision accepting their new status as a region of the european union, or by leaving and re-establishing our national democratic independence.
mr president, european environmental law is designed to deliver a high level of protection for the environment. in my constituency this law is being openly flouted, with breaches of the birds and habitats directives going unpunished. complaints have been submitted to the commission by ban the burn, a local environmental group, and by the royal society for the protection of birds, both concerning the illegal burning and destruction of protected habitats, including blanket bog on the walshaw moor estate in the south pennines natura 2000 site. it should be noted that blanket bog plays a role in flood minimisation, and walshaw moor is situated above hebden bridge, a town which is susceptible to flooding. it is not acceptable that governments on the one hand complain that the eu does not benefit their citizens, while denying them the protection and the real benefits of eu environmental law. i understand that the commission recently received wholly inadequate responses from the uk government which failed to explain these destructive activities. i call on the commission to take swift action.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, well here we are, nine months on: an awful lot of hot air has been expended, an awful lot of threats have been made that, of course, have never materialised, and at its core we still have the mff deal that our governments negotiated in february. my group has always said that the next seven-year budget should achieve two key principles: firstly, of course, to reduce it, and secondly, to reprioritise it away from headings that do not add economic value in a 21st century global economy. this mff, in our view, is a small step in the right direction. of course, it did not go as far as we would have hoped. however, it shows that the costs of the eu can be reduced and the value to taxpayers can be increased. today’s vote marks the culmination of a long process that began several years ago when this parliament first began drafting the report by the special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 (sure). that committee then proposed a 5 % budget increase. it wanted new own resources. it wanted taxes on anything from flying to sails, to co2 and it called for the abolition of fully justified national rebates. thankfully, almost none of this has materialised. only in the area of own resources has parliament achieved a very minor concession which will see a gaggle of so-called ‘independent wise men’ from the three institutions dreaming up a whole host of new ways to spend more taxpayers’ money on their pet eu projects. however, i am certainly not going to lose much sleep over that group. the treaty is clear: the own resources remain within the council’s power under unanimity, and i think in our heart of hearts we all know it is just not going to happen. because new own resources would fundamentally change the relationship between the eu and national governments. that is why it is not going to happen. instead of being their servants it would become their master, forcing them to raise revenue to spend on whatever new scheme takes this chamber’s fancy. and, of course, those who call for new own resources are the same people who consistently call for more europe, somehow as the answer to all of our ills, as if throwing money at the problem will somehow solve it. just as we need a better europe, we need better and more effective spending. that is why we generally welcome the outcome of the negotiations on the various spending regulations. many of these programmes will help to promote cross-border research, to plug the holes in the single market’s infrastructure and to support the newer members of the union. however, these programmes are, by their very nature, multiannual and they rely on certainty. the posturing that we have seen from many in this parliament since february, and particularly since the summer, will make it difficult for many of those schemes to be properly up and running by 1 january. i do however agree with parliament in one important area: the budgetary management of the commission has been appalling. we cannot and must not end up in a situation whereby we are regularly returning to national governments, like oliver twist constantly asking for more. when overspends do occur, savings should be made from elsewhere to compensate. it is time that the eu learned to live within its means. a satisfactory outcome to these negotiations does not dampen our demands for root and branch budgetary reform. overall, we think this agreement represents a fair compromise between north, south, east and west, between net contributors and between net recipients. nine months on, and we are voting fundamentally on the same agreement that we had in february. this parliament has postured and strutted during this unedifying process, but in reality we can be clear that the council’s common position and common sense has prevailed. for us, it serves as an illustration that it is possible to make the eu do less and do it better.
mr president, the report on the interinstitutional agreement is highly critical of the length of the negotiations within the council and between the institutions. but the money that is the subject of negotiation is taxpayers’ money, and its expenditure must be given due consideration. the rapporteur is keen that parliament’s legislative and budgetary powers granted by the treaty of lisbon should be fully respected. the report is critical of the council for binding itself to the conclusions of the european council. it is true that parliament is the only directly elected body and it seems at first sight right that it should be pre-eminent in the budgetary process. however, most of the money spent by the eu comes from or through member states, and member states’ governments are, in the eyes of their electorates, held responsible to their electorates for their taxpayers’ money. parliament might be constitutionally responsible to a theoretical european electorate, but that electorate is not conscious even of its own existence as an entity. there is little dialogue between meps and their electors about the precise allocation of funds as distinct from the total amount. the european council – unlike the council – does not have an official legislative role, but as the body representing heads of government its members are much more aware of the views of their citizens on expenditure than are meps. for as long as the eu continues they must have an important say in the negotiating process.
mr president, for many outside this parliament who rely on european funding it will be a relief that, after months of wrangling and uncertainty, the multiannual financial framework (mff) will now be agreed. there is now certainty about what level of spending is available to the regions for investment in creating jobs and growth. overall, as everyone has said, the package reflects the tough times that we live in. we have a smaller budget but the challenge now is to spend it more effectively and make it deliver more with fewer resources. in scotland, my own region, the mff will provide eur 6 billion for the next seven years. our universities can benefit from the increased funding for research and development to create the jobs and growth which are so badly needed. through the connecting europe facility we can look forward to funding for developing the energy interconnectors that will help realise the tremendous opportunities for marine energy off scotland’s coasts; and our rural communities and farming communities can also look forward to investment from the common agricultural policy, rural development funding and regional funding to help create new jobs and grow local businesses. i believe this is a balanced budget and a budget that reflects the tough times we live in. it demonstrates quite clearly that, in the european parliament and the european union, we too can live within our means.
mr president, well we have finally made it, haven’t we? agonising negotiations, budget cuts, budgets rises, tears, tantrums and vetoes that never were. so what are we left with? well, we are left in the uk with us paying gbp 53 million a day into an organisation that has not had its accounts signed off for 19 years! so no change there then. the eu has even tried to hide the bad press. mr van rompuy threatened the court of auditors to give the accounts a clean bill of health. but even then there were more errors, so that means even more taxpayers’ money lost for ever. last month we had an emergency vote to raise eur 2.7 billion or, we were told, the eu would shut down like the usa. of course, our friends the conservatives did not even have the bottle to vote against this, and abstained, in another stunning victory for mr cameron: whilst we have cuts at home, more money for the european union. do not be fooled by this agreement: it is merely papering over the cracks. because next year the dam will burst at the european elections and in my country ukip will be riding on the crest of an anti-eu wave.
mr president, tony blair, when he presided over these negotiations in 2006, said ‘never again!’ so here we all are – again – with a further missed chance to open up the debate on what items of expenditure can be transferred from the national to the european level to produce cost efficiencies, economies of scale and added value and save taxpayers’ money. jean-luc dehaene is absolutely correct in saying that what we need now is a thorough analysis of the process, which we must improve if the eu is ever to gain genuine autonomy on revenue and expenditure, including for fiscal capacity for the eurozone. fiscal union will not work if its federal government starts off broke.
mr president, first of all can i congratulate parliamentʼs negotiation team, and particularly ivailo kalfin, for the tremendous work they have done. we all recognise that there has been a cut in the overall budget, including a cut in the funds for cohesion policy – a cut of over eur 30 billion – and i certainly recognise that this is a great pity because these are the type of programmes for which we should be increasing the funding. we know that there are issues still regarding the cohesion policy regulations, on the esf allocation and on the performance reserve, and many other things. but on all these issues we have now reached compromises. of course, we should also be pleased that some of the things we wanted to achieve have been achieved in the mff: for example, an 8.5 % increase in the budget for horizon 2020. we have a new youth guarantee scheme and funding for it. we also have a new fund for deprived persons, and i hope member states, including the uk, will take up the opportunity to gain funds from that particular programme. and, of course, we have managed to frontload many of our priorities, which is vital in a time of difficult economic circumstances. so now we really should be voting to accept the mff. we were right to negotiate a better deal but now, as a parliament, we cannot be blamed for delays in the implementation of the mff or future programmes, and i am sure colleagues would not want those delays. in all regions, including wales where i come from, we now have projects which are ready to go, projects which have been looking for funding. so when we vote tomorrow, the eyes of regions, local authorities, universities and citizens will be on us and we need to make sure that we vote ‘yesʼ to the mff in the vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to compliment our two rapporteurs, monika hohlmeier and anne jensen. this has been an important report. it is year one of the multiannual financial framework and i appreciate that our two rapporteurs have worked in very difficult circumstances and have produced what i would term a very sensible report. in particular, i warmly welcome their proposals for increased funding under heading 1a. it is vital that we focus maximum effort where it is most needed and where it gives the best return. to that end, creating jobs, particularly among the young, as well as research and development, erasmus and connecting europe, will all help long-term sustainable growth in the economy. i also welcome the 6% reduction in the size of the budget, but operating with a lower budget inevitably means much-reduced margins, and that will present a number of challenges throughout the year. in the short term, greater flexibility in the way the budget is operated has to be sensible but, to that end, we must give fresh thought, in the long term, to focusing our efforts and our resources on where they will bring most benefit – in other words, to offering greater value for money.
mr president, can i follow on from ms jutta haug’s remarks and offer my congratulations to my colleague anne e. jensen for leading a very successful negotiation with the council. indeed it is said that it is the first time the council has ever offered to increase the payments in any negotiation and she succeeded in securing an extra eur 500 million, substantial amounts of which go into r&d, help for small businesses, and erasmus as well. well done to ms jensen. this will, of course, help increase investment and jobs and growth. i could also welcome the real-term freeze in the parliament budget which monika hohlmeier and other shadow rapporteurs managed to negotiate. that is against the background of the one-off exceptional cost of the election next year. as i have said before, the harsh reality of the budgets that we are negotiating at the moment is that we are living on a day-to-day basis in budgetary terms. the commitments agreed back in the boom times in 2007 and the mff are now making it extremely difficult for member states laden with debts to honour the bills as they come in today. thankfully, in the 2014 budget the new commitments are less than 10 % of the budget, according to the commissioner, and we get eur 20 billion rolling over from 2013, so that at long last there is an opportunity maybe to try and reduce that overhang as we go forward into the next budgetary year. this is a one-off opportunity, and the rapporteurs have done an excellent job in negotiating this package for 2014.
madam president, as i and many other colleagues have often said in this house, if the european union seeks to sustain popular support at the next european elections in may, it must respond to complex economic, fiscal and political challenges both carefully and sensitively. i was very proud, therefore, that the council managed this year to secure, under the prime minister of my country, david cameron, the first ever budget cut in the history of the mff, as it signalled that the eu was serious about reflecting at eu level the economic realities of austerity in so many member states. such a pragmatic move could only be good for the european union in the longer term and manifests the basic fact that the eu must be held accountable first and foremost to its citizens and taxpayers. we cannot justify spending increases in the union when national budgets are being slashed. if the mff can be smaller and better targeted, ultimately, we would all gain. the european union must be seen to be doing less and to be doing it much better.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the de haene-kalfin report on the mff because it is in fact the first time that a reduction in the multiannual budget has taken place. this is in large measure due to the tough position the leader of my party, mr cameron, took in the council negotiations on the mff last year. while 6% is not very big in light of the waste of money under the eu budget, it is a big step to calling a halt to the ever-increasing ambitions of the eu.
in writing. − i voted against the mff budget 2013-2020 because the cuts mean cuts in the funding coming to wales. as an mep representing wales i could not support that. i have opposed the eu austerity measures and the cuts in public spending which hit the poorest hardest. in this time of economic crisis we should be investing more in creating jobs, not making more cuts. wales is a net beneficiary of eu membership. research i carried out last year shows that we get gbp 40 per person per year more in wales than we contribute to eu membership. we get this support not because we are poor but because we are impoverished by uk government policies. until wales has its own independent voice in europe, we need that support and solidarity to build our economy and enable us to stand on our own two feet, as other nations have done successfully.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the multiannual financial framework agreement, which is on the whole a reasonable compromise in a time of severe economic constraint.
in writing. − since february (when the multiannual budgeting deal was first successfully negotiated), i and my conservative colleagues have been opposing attempts by the european parliament to renegotiate this deal. by voting today to give its consent to the new mff (which remains broadly the same as the deal agreed by heads of state and government in february), the european parliament has finally recognised that we needed to deliver a sensible and smart eu budget for our constituents. this mff delivers a long-term budget that marries the need to reflect, through a reduced budget, the difficult economic circumstances being faced across the member states, with the need to reprioritise the eu’s budget investments to areas that will deliver clear added value and growth for our constituents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the trzaskowski report on the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management as a necessary part of the implementation of the mff and the legal means to require the commission to manage the multiannual budget in a disciplined manner.
in writing. − i voted against this iaa part of the mff process. the final package on the mff is a long way from the initial position of parliament, which i supported and which i believed was in the best interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. − it was important that we finally delivered parliament’s consent for this long-term budget today. the outcome of the negotiations on this mff are, i believe, the right ones, and i am pleased that parliament has taken the steps needed to approve it here today – including, in this case, the adoption of this report on the interinstitutional agreement (iia).
in writing. − there were complicated negotiations related to the mff and this yearʼs budget. however, i believe that combatting youth unemployment is not only a priority in wales but across the whole of the eu. that is why i voted in favour of this amending budget.
in writing. − i opted to abstain in this vote on draft amending budget no 7. i did so because, as i also outlined in the previous plenary session, i do not feel that such amending budgets demonstrate the sound budgetary supervision that my constituents should be able to expect from the european union.
in writing. − i voted against the la via report on draft amending budget no 8 of 2013. this was a request from the commission for a 11.2 billion top-up to the 2013 budget. this is an unconscionable effort on the part of the commission to force the nations of the eu to cough up what is effectively an 8% increase to the amount voted for the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report so that legal obligations in terms of payments can be honoured for the year 2013. this was one of parliamentʼs conditions for supporting the mff. i could not vote in favour of the mff because of the cut in funding to wales but i did support this measure.
in writing. − for me, this draft amending budget is a clear representation of the problems we have faced with regard to eu budgetary management this year. we cannot continue to manage shortfalls in payments with such requests for extra finances. one of the fundamental lessons taken from these overall budget negotiations must be that of the need for better budgetary management at eu level.
in writing. − i voted against the plenkovic report on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) to be applied to valenciana building materials in spain. the egaf is an attempt to make the eu seem relevant to the peoples of europe by supposedly offering retraining after mass closures due to the economic downturn. these monies are uncontrolled, inadequate for the task and misdirected. in addition, the uk has never sought the money for itself.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the use of the fund for comunidad valenciana, as i have supported the use of the fund in the past. i believe that it is important in preserving and supporting employment in the global economy. we have not yet applied for use of the fund in wales, although i did request the welsh government to do so in the case of the loss of burberry jobs in the rhondda.
in writing. − it is more important now than ever that we should be confident each and every piece of european union funding we allocate will be fully effective and will deliver optimum value for taxpayers. i am afraid i am not convinced that the european globalisation adjustment fund delivers against these criteria and, as i am not supportive of the fund on these grounds, i voted against this report today.
madam president, in my constituency, northern ireland, public procurement plays an important role in driving the economy: it is worth approximately eur 2.7 billion every year. much of this has supported local small and medium-sized enterprises, allowing them to bring forward innovative solutions and products. between 2011 and 2012, 80% of public contracts were awarded to local businesses, and this was largely the result of the work done by the department of finance and personnel in reducing paperwork and administrative costs. there are benefits to the new revised wto agreement on government procurement. the ban on companies convicted of crimes or professional misconduct is encouraging, as is the flexibility granted to regional authorities to shorten deadlines and tailor the use of electronic tools for procurement. however, it is essential, as further markets are opened up to foreign competition in this way, that local businesses should remain well equipped to compete. in northern ireland, local smes have fought their corner well and it is now time for the eu to reward them by cutting red tape and regulation.
in writing. − the european parliament agreed to these revised rules on how public procurement is regulated internationally. as someone who has worked on the revision of public procurement legislation at eu level and who campaigns to raise the level of procurement in wales, i could not support this report. it might affect the new agreements we have on sustainability, labour conditions and environmental protection in procurement. the potential of public procurement for the welsh economy is enormous, creating thousands of jobs. i will oppose anything that endangers that. we need to use public money to generate value in local communities through employing local resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report; the opening up of global procurement markets must be encouraged and we must do all that we can to support our small and medium-sized businesses back home so that they are able to access global markets.
madam president, the erasmus for all programme is an excellent example of how we can support our citizens in competing in an increasingly global labour market. it also contributes to our reaching the europe 2020 targets on education and employment. in my constituency, the west midlands, between 2007 and 2012 nearly 5 000 university students participated in the scheme. i therefore welcome the commission’s initiative to bring together existing programmes under the heading of erasmus for all. i hope this will create a simpler, more streamlined system, from which more people will be able to benefit. i also welcome the emphasis on lifelong learning and vocational training, from which institutions such as walsall college and black country university technical college could benefit. the insistence on better coordination between education, business and civil society is also welcome. as a liberal democrat in the uk, i have always pushed for more apprenticeships, and i would like to see this programme used to fund cross-border apprenticeships.
madam president, at a time of great uncertainty for young people across europe with regard to finding employment and gaining a true stake in society, i broadly welcome these proposals for an erasmus for all programme. in my constituency, northern ireland, almost one in five young people aged between 16 and 24 are unemployed. it is in this context that i share the committee’s emphasis on bettering personal development and on promoting the active involvement of young people in society. it is right that the focus of erasmus for all should reflect the differing strands of education. while we continue to support those in higher education, it is also vital to facilitate exchange opportunities for students on part-time courses and those in vocational education. i would also like to note here the potential underlying benefit of the proposed creative europe programme. in northern ireland, the creative and cultural industries are growth sectors in the economy, with some leading television and film franchises, including games of thrones, basing production in our province. this additional funding can maximise the social and employment benefits of harnessing such creativity.
madam president, the erasmus programme celebrated its 25th anniversary last year. it is an enduring programme that has brought opportunities to millions of students across the 33 countries in which it operates. students from all over the united kingdom benefit as well from the scheme, and i have encountered in my professional life many cvs where students have been able to broaden their skills or develop a language as part of this process. london, the city i represent, is home to more of the world’s top 40 universities than any other major city in europe. in fact, there are over 100 000 students from nearly 200 countries studying under the auspices of erasmus. higher education operates on a global scale and it is vital that the uk continues to attract international students if it is to remain in the forefront in this international market. i am therefore pleased to vote for this report, which seeks to extend and improve the existing programme as well as boosting the role of sports as part of the scheme. erasmus will continue to bring the uk benefits for its students, its universities and its wider economy.
in writing. − i was happy to support the new erasmus for all programme. i recently visited cardiff metropolitan university to hear about the excellent work being done there in relation to erasmus mundus – sharing walesʼs excellence with the world. i am proud that over seven hundred students and staff go from welsh colleges to study in other eu countries each year. i know from the number who do periods of work experience in my office in brussels that it is of great benefit to them personally and to our nation as a whole. i am pleased that the new programme attaches the same importance to informal learning and training, literacy, apprenticeships and the transition from learning to work. i look forward to seeing many in wales benefit from erasmus for all.
in writing. − the eu’s programmes on youth, education and sport have over the years greatly enhanced the lifetime experiences of thousands of european citizens. i therefore voted in favour of the revised legislation. it is important to note that the trialogue agreement allows for more than one single national agency: this is of vital importance to member states which have more than one national education system.
in writing. − the commissionʼs economic forecast for the next two years does not make pleasant reading for europeʼs young people. unemployment rates are projected to remain in double figures until 2015, with levels amongst young people even greater as employers continue to retain, rather than hire new staff. i am delighted therefore to vote for the erasmus+ programme for the years 2014-2020, which increases opportunities for students, apprentices and volunteers working and studying abroad. the streamlined organisation of the eur 14 billion programme simplifies access to funding hitherto spread over numerous programmes like comenius and leonardo da vinci. erasmus+ will also fund scholarships for non-university students, ensure grants are paid faster, and introduce sport into a european funding programme. although unemployment rates have marginally declined in my own constituency, youth unemployment remains at an unacceptably high level in northern ireland and across europe. we as legislators should do all we can to provide opportunities for our young people to better equip themselves with the necessary skills in a difficult economic climate. i believe the erasmus+ programme has the potential to benefit not only students and volunteers, but also the wider economy when these newly acquired attributes enter diverse and highly-skilled labour markets.
in writing. − this vote today seals the continuation of a programme that has already given students right across the eu real opportunities to expand their knowledge base, to build language skills and to experience different cultures. i hope that this forthcoming 'erasmus for all' programme can build on previous success and provide support to education institutions and their staff. in particular, i look forward to seeing how we can maximise the impact of the dedicated budget outlined within this programme for sport; in times of economic difficulty, grassroots sports can sometimes struggle to obtain the support that they need and i hope that this programme will prove to be a useful tool in backing grassroots sports in our member states.
in writing. − erasmus is one of the great success stories of the european union. as education and youth policy are devolved competences in wales, erasmus is highly relevant to my constituency. there are a number of welsh government policies and strategies which have parallel aspirations to the key aims of the ‘erasmus for all’ proposals, such as increasing participation in education, a stronger emphasis on lifelong learning, the development of both basic and employable skills and increased links between business and education. that is why i have voted in favour of ‘erasmus for all’, and i hope that there will be further collaboration between welsh universities and universities elsewhere in the eu.
in writing. − i voted for the costa report on the creative europe programme because it will benefit culture and arts in the uk, which is an increasingly important part of the services industry in our country. i believe that it will increase jobs and be good for the economy.
in writing. − creative europe is a new programme following the culture, media and media mundus programmes. i was happy to vote in favour of creative europe which has the objective of enhancing cultural and linguistic diversity – something which is very important to wales. we see ourselves as a modern, bilingual nation in an international context. this is not only important in a strictly cultural sense but does actually have a positive impact on the economy: the commission study on the economic value of cultural and linguistic diversity shows it is a booster beyond 6 % of gdp. therefore the potential for wales is considerable, as long as smaller projects have access to the programmes.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors in europe play a vital role in all our countries and i was happy to support this report.
in writing. − i represent a constituency with a strong tradition of cultural and creative excellence, of which i am particularly proud. as a result i recognise the importance of supporting our creative industries, ensuring the continued celebration of our unique cultures, whilst also maximising the contribution that these industries can make to economic growth. i hope that this programme will act as a key tool in unlocking the potential of our creative industries and supporting them in their continued growth and expansion.
in writing. − today i voted in favour of the creative europe programme, which has merged and replaced the current culture, media and media mundus programmes which ran from 2007-2013. i did so because i believe in increasing the competitiveness of european cultural and creative industries by taking advantage of technological advancements and creating further international employment. under the creative europe programme, thousands of people working in cinema, tv, culture, music and the performing arts will benefit from increased support and funding. i hope that this will provide a boost to the already successful culture sector in wales.
in writing. − i voted against the takkula report on the establishing of the programme ‘europe for the citizens’ for the period 2014-2020 as it is unnecessary and it does not provide value for taxpayers’ money and because we do not support the principal objectives of ‘contributing to citizens’ understanding of the union, its history and diversity’ and ‘fostering european citizenship’ while ‘improving conditions for civic and democratic participation at union level’.
in writing. − i voted for the new ‘europe for citizensʼ programme which aims to improve knowledge about the eu and its history. i think it is essential that my constituents can make decisions on the future of wales in a european context by debating how europe itself needs to change. knowledge of the eu is a prerequisite for that. this fund should enable people to contact one another, organise meetings and get involved in eu activities, which is to be welcomed.
in writing. − this parliament has today overwhelmingly backed a programme which speaks of ‘fostering european citizenship and improving conditions for civic and democratic participation’. i fully support those ideals. they are wholly inconsistent with the suggestion by some members of this house that the people of scotland will have their eu citizenship removed in the event of them exercising their civic and democratic right to opt for scottish independence.
in writing. − i am a huge supporter of encouraging my constituents to engage with european union funding streams and throughout this mandate i have seen the success that doing so can generate. however when we are presented with opportunities to review the continuation of such programmes our primary consideration must be: do they represent value for the taxpayer’s money? in this particular case i was unfortunately not convinced that this europe for the citizens programme did.
in writing. − the europe for citizens programme will give citizens the opportunity to interact and participate in constructing an ever closer europe. i voted in favour of this programme because i believe in enhancing tolerance and mutual understanding between european citizens, whilst respecting and promoting cultural and linguistic diversity. i am pleased to see the reinforcement of active european citizenship through further town twinning, citizensʼ projects and support measures. i strongly support measures for an active european remembrance, and am happy to see an active civil society in europe being promoted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this because although wales has been left out of the main corridors in ten-t, we will be making every effort to maximise the advantage for wales under the core routes. in this respect the connecting europe facility is vital.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the connecting europe facility which will do much to boost the european economy. i aim for scotland to play a full role in europe after next year’s independence referendum and the cef will help scotland fully contribute to and benefit from our continued eu membership.
in writing. − the connecting europe facility (cef) offers real potential in terms of developing the euʼs transport, telecommunications and energy networks. in one of the most significant economic crises to hit the eu, no sector has been immune to cost pressures. nevertheless, developing a genuine european transport infrastructure policy requires improvements to interoperability and infrastructure. while an additional eur 8 billion of transport funding for the 2014-2020 period may seem out of step with austerity measures, the potential economic benefits of the ten-t package are vast. in my constituency, the opportunities to avail of cef funds for roads in areas with isolated networks and for funding projects on both core and comprehensive networks will offer a much needed boost to local transport infrastructure. the challenge for northern ireland will be to meet the 2030 and 2050 deadlines for these networks. the cef is not of course restricted to transport. improvements in telecommunications and energy networks can also benefit the local population, attracting new investments and expanding existing enterprises. while it is disappointing that the londonderry to belfast connection is not included as a core network, overall the cef package is a very good result for northern ireland.
in writing. − investment in infrastructure projects in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications offers the opportunity to provide real boosts to the economic competitiveness of regions right across the european union, and so i am pleased to see the european union budget allocating funds to such projects via this connecting europe facility.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the connecting europe facility. i did so because i support funding for key transport infrastructure projects, which will improve cross-border connections, remove bottlenecks and bridge gaps and improve the general interoperability of europe. i believe in supporting the core transport networks within europe, with valuable projects which focus on traffic management systems. i also hope that the connecting europe facility will make strides towards modernising and expanding the energy infrastructure within europe, whilst simultaneously enhancing the security of europe’s energy supply.
in writing. − in view of the 5th assessment report from the international panel on climate change, none can reasonably deny that we are already seeing the effects of manmade climate change. melting ice caps, rising sea levels and more frequent extreme weather events such as the last weekend’s typhoon haiyan and the storm which buffeted sardinia yesterday: all are consistent with the science of climate change currently under examination in warsaw. that is why an amendment crafted in this house – to the part of the connecting europe facility which deals with energy interconnections – is so important. it means we will spend the lion’s share of this budget on electricity rather than oil and gas connections. the english writer hg wells maintained that human history is increasingly a race between education and catastrophe. he is right. unless we make the switch from fossil fuels to clean energy sources we have no chance of mitigating climate change. in order to do that we need trans-european electricity distribution networks – a smart supergrid, if you like – to exploit renewable energy sources and to balance supply and demand. commissioner kallas’s connecting europe facility will help deliver this.
madam president, as a member representing northern ireland, a region of the united kingdom that is situated on an island in a cross-border context, i recognise the importance of developing cohesive transport links to drive the economy and reduce costs for consumers. i welcome the focus on building a comprehensive network that includes outermost regions and less populated areas. i find it encouraging that within the guidelines the committee allows exemption from mandatory infrastructure requirements for smaller regions with smaller networks. this is vital for my constituency where the rail system has isolated network status. it is also hugely important to recognise and protect regional airports, which are central for connectivity. through projects of common interest, investment holds the potential to increase regional mobility, improve air links and support the movement of goods and services. these opportunities stand to attract inward investment, increase tourism and reduce travel costs for businesses and consumers across northern ireland. moving forward, however, it is essential that this funding be applied on the basis of need, and only with the support and cooperation of local and regional stakeholders.
in writing. − i voted against this report because of the exclusion of wales from the main corridors. many of us in wales have worked for several years to get the main routes in wales included, particularly the cross-border links to ireland. however, the uk government has blocked their inclusion which means that wales has to apply for funding as part of the secondary core routes. this means a longer timescale and a more difficult application process. second best is not good enough. it is time we had a government in wales that puts wales first.
in writing. − i voted in favour of these guidelines. the scottish government is pursuing a national transport strategy after decades of neglect by london-led governments. it is essential for scotland’s transport network to be properly integrated with our european partners and the development of the trans-european transport network will complement the work in scotland.
in writing. − the vote to approve the guidelines for developing the trans-european transport network (ten-t) represents a key moment in the move towards a genuine european transport infrastructure policy. crucial amendments at committee stage ensured that regional variance was taken into account in the final ten-t package, such as exemptions from costly rail infrastructure standards for isolated rail networks. inappropriate infrastructure demands and binding deadlines in the original proposals would have forced my constituency of northern ireland to spend billions on its road and rail networks or else risk infraction proceedings. thankfully common sense has prevailed. the ten-t agreed represents a very positive outcome for northern ireland. we face unique challenges in terms of developing our transport networks. detached from the rest of the united kingdom and mainland europe, the choice for local people travelling in the eu is invariably restricted. ten-t offers the chance of increasing mobility and interconnectivity by linking major cities and ports to form an efficient ‘road-rail-air-waterʼ transport network. the economic benefits that derive from such a network in terms of job creation and inward investment mean that the ten-t package is an excellent deal for both northern ireland and the eu.
in writing. − i believe that the european union is right to prioritise improved connectivity and strengthened transport links as part of this infrastructure investment package. however, it is important that the structure for the investment agreed represents the best deal possible for all member states and their regions, and in this instance i did not feel that this was the case for the uk and its regions, including wales. i therefore opted to abstain in this final vote.
in writing. − ensuring that reliable and up-to-date statistics are available to the industry and policy makers is extremely important in order to drive the sector forward and evaluate the impact of policy changes in the past or predicted outcomes in the future. streamlining any system is welcome when it creates better results and is a better use of resources. a clear line of responsibility is imperative for good governance especially in a european context, and i agree that parliament must retain the right to review delegated acts at the end of each five-year period. this means the commission can be held accountable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this. it is essential that agricultural and fishery statistics are accurate and reliable in order to shape effective policies. both these areas are of importance to the welsh economy.
in writing. − i can support this exercise proposed by the european commission, to review nine legislative acts within the domain of agricultural and fishery statistics, in order to align them in accordance with the lisbon treaty. i therefore voted in favour of this report today.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal. whilst it is uncontroversial, with no amendments tabled, this issue will be of great importance to wales. water is one of our greatest natural assets and we will need all measures to protect it in the future.
in writing. − i welcome the european parliament’s decision to approve these revisions to this convention, which will allow countries situated outside the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) region to become parties to the convention. however, as the uk itself has not ratified the convention, i chose to abstain on this final vote.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal and legislative resolution. i am opposed to the use of public money for this nuclear fusion project, particularly when cuts are being made in the public funding coming to wales. iter already costs at least 3 times more than the initial estimates. it should be outside the mff and built using voluntary contributions.
in writing. − the iter programme has always been something of a white elephant and at a time of economic crisis the continued expenditure of eu public money is indefensible. i accordingly voted against this report.
in writing. − i am fully supportive of the iter project. however, this report unfortunately makes calls for financing of the iter project which go beyond the ceilings of the mff, which i cannot support. therefore i opted today to abstain on this final vote.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal. parliament is only consulted on this key issue. eur 1.8 billion was earmarked by the commission for nuclear research as part of horizon 2020. i believe that in the interests of democracy, parliament should have a role in making these decisions. i also believe that nuclear research programmes should focus on protecting people and the environment, the safe decommissioning of nuclear installations and non-proliferation. these issues are of vital importance to wales and to our economy.
in writing. − nuclear energy remains an expensive and dangerous technology and various nations have opted out of nuclear in the aftermath of the fukushima disaster. public money should be spent on finding alternatives to nuclear and to safely dealing with radioactive waste left by misguided policies of the past. unfortunately this is not reflected in this report, which i voted against.
in writing. − i am pleased that the parliament has voted on my report on nuclear research with a massive majority. i have the privilege of being the first horizon 2020 rapporteur to have my report adopted. i am pleased with the cooperation i and my fellow rapporteurs have enjoyed throughout this long and vital process. horizon 2020 represents the next step in european research – one in which my country the uk has played a leading role and benefitted greatly. for the next seven years we will have a newer, bigger, more ambitious framework to invest in our future, and one where young european researchers will not feel the need to move elsewhere in order to continue with the world-beating research that needs our support. this is not only an investment in brilliant science, it is also one to support close-to-market research, helping companies and in particular smes to bridge that valley of death and re-invest funds in the european economy. we are still living with a legal framework in which the parliament is merely consulted, but today we have voiced our opinion on the need for further progress in this important area and we will look to see the council take account of our democratic mandate along with the remaining horizon 2020 reports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report today. i support continuing efforts to further research activities in the field of nuclear energy and i believe that this proposal should form a key part of the overall horizon 2020 package.
in writing. − i have voted for the european atomic energy community research and training programme. i did so because i support calls upon the commission to secure continued funding for the jet facility in oxfordshire, which employs around 1 000 scientists. i am also pleased to see emphasis on safety within nuclear research, and the assurance of a reasonable balance between men and women in member states undertaking research and training activities in the nuclear field. i believe that the increased attention given to ensuring that the right information is communicated to the public is a step in the right direction for transparency within the nuclear field in europe.
in writing. − i voted against this. the objective of the nuclear safety cooperation instrument is to support and promote a high level of nuclear safety and safeguards internationally. most of the 2007-2013 budget was devoted to chernobyl – the effects of which are still being felt in wales with the continued restrictions on the movement of animals. insc is not intended to promote nuclear power but that is exactly what is happening. eur 176 million has been allocated for 2014-2020. substantial help must be given from this to ensure the stabilisations and remediation of the fukushima site.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of this instrument today and i welcome its continued efforts to strengthen eu cooperation with third countries to improve nuclear safety levels and further nuclear research.
in writing. − i abstained on this proposal to increase support to bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia for the decommissioning of old nuclear reactors. this is linked to agreements made when they joined the eu. the decommissioning is becoming ever more costly – as we know from experience in wales – and it is not clear whether this is adequate to achieve the aim. we also must be certain that nuclear waste is not exported to third countries.
in writing. − i abstained on this report because my own group’s amendments failed to be adopted. the scottish national party has long been opposed to nuclear energy and accordingly we acknowledge the need for decommissioning programmes. we believe however that long-term management of waste must be conducted near-surface and as near to site of production as possible. this precludes the export of waste to third countries – a possibility which my group has sought to prohibit.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote in favour of this resolution led by my conservative colleague. i hope that these funds can now be used effectively to complete the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. − madam president, can i thank the rapporteurs and the negotiating team for all the hard work they have done. let me say at the start that the committee on budgets was not, of course, happy with the cut proposed for cohesion policy in the future. we believe this is one policy which should be funded properly. but we certainly gave our agreement to the initial proposals coming from the commission on involving regions and local authorities, on having a greater focus on performance, and also on simplifying measures for the future. some problems do remain in terms of the performance reserve, macroeconomic conditionality and the esf allocation, but acceptable compromises have now been achieved on all these things. and after our agreement, the next step will be for partnership agreements and then the operational programmes for member states and regions. that is why it is now absolutely essential that this parliament give its full support to all the regulations we are discussing today and all the regulations we are voting on tomorrow. many member states and many regions are now putting together their operational programmes, and many beneficiaries and applicants are putting together their bids. they are ready to go and we need to make sure that tomorrow we vote to put those projects in place.
madam president, the european social fund’s remit is to invest in people and to support employment, especially amongst the young who see their futures receding in a europe of austerity and unemployment. i know the eu food aid programme, the fund for european aid for the most deprived, is also to receive its funding through the esf. in my constituency of the west midlands, my office has collected over three tonnes of food for distribution to food banks. across the country, more than 350 000 people are dependent on these food banks to feed themselves and their families. it has been estimated that if current trends continue, more than half a million people could be receiving food parcels by 2016. these are basic supplies, not luxury foods and wine such as those that will be enjoyed in the members’ dining room today. a recent study found that malnutrition is on the rise in the uk. one in ten older people are malnourished. this fact is a warning sign and it is where the problem first becomes apparent. the archbishop of canterbury just three days ago insisted on a plea for more financial support for the rapidly expanding network of food banks. we see it here debating new legislation whilst people are suffering back home. there is a joke that is popular in england at the moment. president barroso is asked by a greek citizen: have we achieved full european integration? the answer from barroso is: oh no, it will get a lot worse yet.
mr president, the votes tomorrow on reformed funding are profoundly important for northern ireland. european structural and investment funds in northern ireland have been a valued contribution to public programmes over the funding periods. under the reform, northern ireland has been classified as a ‘transition’ region from 2014 to 2020, a period which will further enhance the efforts to improve competitiveness and create sustainable employment. northern ireland must draw down as much of this eu funding as possible in support of our innovative businesses, smes and urban areas, particularly in such a difficult economic climate. the reform of eu cohesion funding therefore has great potential in this regard. i must give particular recognition to the continued support for the peace process through the successive special support programmes for peace and reconciliation in northern ireland and the border region of the republic of ireland, continuing in 2014-2020. i am pleased that we have secured eur 150 million. we would have liked more but we are very pleased with what we have received.
mr president, the regional development funds are some of the most expensive items in the eu budget. these schemes are often just a waste of money, but a waste of money used to promote the eu’s identity as a political state. the european regional development fund (erdf) has also been a gift to organised crime. in bulgaria, the mafia profited massively from erdf funding being channelled into projects in which they have financial stakes. and now the criminals of candidate countries are keen to get in on the action too. the erdf is a key part of eu propaganda. legal requirements say that eu flags and placards must be fixed in places where the money has been spent, but there is no such thing as eu money. there is only taxpayers’ money. member states would be better off spending their own money in their own way in a democratically accountable manner. britain cannot afford this and it is yet another reason why britain has to leave the european union.
mr president, thankfully negotiations like these do not come along too often. when they do, we know they are important to all of us, especially to citizens who will feel the benefit of the hard work done by negotiators so that our community funding streams reach every part of every member state. when we hear terms like ‘macroeconomic conditionalities’, we know we are in for tough talks, but we now have compromises that we can all live with. well done to everyone for that. however, the work the alde group has been doing to ensure a real focus on smes is being thwarted at the final hurdle. we are very disappointed that, at the direction of the president, voting on these amendments will not be taken in order, and split votes will not be allowed, which will mean the house will be denied the chance to make its views clear. despite protests in the conference of presidents, we are left with voting that thwarts the efforts for smes and our ability to make a real choice about investing in them and supporting them. the recovery of the union’s economy will be driven by small businesses, and we should be giving them our direct support, not changing voting rules to fit political agendas in the very chamber that exists to speak on their behalf.
mr president, structural funding from the european union is vitally important for improving economic competitiveness in my constituency of wales and in particular for the area of west wales and the valleys which will once again qualify for full convergence funding under the forthcoming programme. i am hopeful that tomorrow’s vote can mark the beginning of a real step-change for wales and for the way that european funds are deployed back home. unfortunately, as we draw to the end of another round of funding, wales still remains among the poorest parts of the eu, despite being part of the united kingdom. for me, this is the clearest possible measure of our need to do more to ensure that the eu funding received in wales and elsewhere in the union is utilised effectively. therefore, in the next round of funding, we need to strive to invest in a manner that guarantees maximum economic productivity. in what remains a time of economic difficulty, better spending is an approach we can see reflected in this package in its move towards a more results-orientated approach. this is how it must be in the roll-out of this funding back home over the coming years. i am hopeful that, if we follow such an approach, we can actually target investment in areas where it will make a big difference.
mr president, ireland is in receipt of eu funding which delivers much needed investment. hence i am acutely aware of the importance of cohesion policy funding. i disagree with macroeconomic conditionality being applied to cohesion funding, which is the sanctioning mechanism triggering suspension of funds if budgetary discipline, namely austerity, is not implemented. cohesion policy should not have a sword hanging over its head because the banking sector, for one, will be reluctant to provide credit for much-needed projects to smes or councils, for instance, when the eu funding element of the project could be suspended. that said, i recognise the work done by colleagues in the committee on regional development to limit the application of macroeconomic conditionality by including socioeconomic safeguards that take into account unemployment and poverty rates in relevant member states when suspension of the cohesion fund is being considered. however, i still believe it will have an adverse impact.
mr president, cohesion funding represents a third of the eu budget in the next financial period and, despite concerns about its spending, it can play a part in assisting communities and nurturing business. indeed, i was delighted to visit the omagh innovation and growth centre in my constituency just a few weeks ago, which is supported by the cohesion fund. the proposed increase in spending on territorial cooperation will facilitate a peace iv programme in northern ireland and the border counties of the republic of ireland, a further signal of the intention of these institutions to support northern ireland to deal with the legacy of terrorism and division in our community. i want to say thank you to commissioner hahn, and indeed our chair, ms hübner, for their unwavering support in this objective. finally, i am glad that northern ireland will benefit from transition region status, which should give us further access to funding and greater flexibility in its operation.
mr president, my own east of england region has benefited in the current term from gbp 100 million in regional funds with a programme to help our businesses convert to low-carbon growth, and gbp 200 million in social funds helping 2500 people find or stay in work. they are helping people with basic numeracy and literacy in norfolk and suffolk; stopping prisoners from reoffending in hertfordshire; helping disabled people qualify as car mechanics in cambridgeshire and mentoring young people in luton. but commissioners, i am very concerned that under the regulations being voted this week, the british government plans to manage the structural funds by national rather than regional committees. already, the uk government’s failure to pass audit arrangements has seen payments to my region suspended, even though the error rate in the east of england is only 0.2%, compared with 12.6% nationally. we risk losing two million from previously agreed eu funding allocation. will the commission now ensure that in britain, as elsewhere, principles of local partnership and of additionality are fully observed so that no money is lost? finally, having campaigned against britain’s opposition to drawing down esf monies for britain’s food banks, i also note that the uk government has now conceded that it will spend the new minimum of 3.5 million, but i deeply regret that it has rejected the 22 million in the original plan, literally taking food out of the mouths of the hungry.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, no one in this chamber would say they are against women living up to their full potential, and i hope we all agree that diversity in boardrooms makes for better companies. where we differ is on how to achieve these things. i have confidence in women’s ability to get to the boardroom on merit. yes, the road is not always easy. yes, there are obstacles. we need to look at opening a pathway for women: encouraging and empowering those who want to move forward. quotas may cure the symptoms but they do not cure the disease. we have seen in norway that quotas have failed. women were reduced to so-called ‘golden skirts’, with one woman holding non-executive posts on 90 different boards. in spite of quotas, the number of senior women in business in norway, like the number of women ceos, is lower than the european average. we can get more women onto boards by working with, and encouraging, companies. in the uk we have seen a steady increase over the past three years, from 12% to 15.5%, to the latest figure of 19%, all achieved through a voluntary approach. i urge you to vote against the commission’s plans for quotas. quotas are not only insulting to women but also dangerous to business. we must not vote for rules that would wind up companies failing to meet eu-imposed targets for women on boards. are our economies so strong that we can afford to turn away multinational companies, who may not want to do business here? we must reject plans to extend the scope of the directive to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which are already groaning under the weight of eu legislation. we need more women at the top, not just in non-executive positions but in executive positions too. let us give women the tools to open up the pathway and to work together as role models and mentors. women deserve our respect and our belief in their ability; they do not deserve to be undermined by quotas. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i am well aware of what she is insinuating. first of all, i would like to say that a recent survey by a recruitment company showed that only six percent of women wanted quotas. women do not want them. secondly, i would like to say that when you are in a company, you are there on merit. you have to work hard and you have to fight your way. if you get there by some quota, you will not succeed. you will be undermined and you will undermine women who come along that way. so i urge members not to support this report. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – first of all i am not going to put a quota number on any sort of diversity: we need diversity on boards. secondly, the latest statistics say that in the uk 25% of appointments to the upper levels in companies are women. so we are well on the way, and if you were to follow some of the voluntary measures we have imposed – such as the 30% club – you would find that a lot more women would join.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, what is happening here? one is going to discriminate against people because of their gender. by setting a 40% gender-quota target for companies, we are destroying the very nature of a free society based on merit. companies will face sanctions and may become fearful of hiring a certain type of person, thus increasing the chances of discrimination. article 4 says it shall be for the company to prove there has been no breach of the rules. this rips up the justice system in the uk, based around the principle of habeas corpus. amendment 54 provides for threatening shareholding voters by warning them for non-compliance with the directive. so, will we see companies re-running elections to their boards until the correct result is achieved, just like the lisbon treaty and the poor old irish voters? amendment 39 seeks to add the forced dissolution of the company to the list of eu sanctions. this is pretty heavy! when businesses start suffering penalties or being forced to close because they have one too many male, or one too many female, non-executive directors, they will see that ukip was the only party that did what it could to stop this. ukip amendments delete these draconian sanctions, and we have even proposed an opt-out clause. ukip believes that men and women should be hired on individual merit, not on the basis of gender. you do not fight discrimination with more discrimination. martin luther king hoped that his children would be judged on the content of their character, not the colour of their skin. he won equal rights through dialogue and negotiation, not through more discrimination. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
blue-card answer. – well i do not agree with that, mr tarabella. it is as simple as that. companies are there to make money and to give a dividend to their shareholders. they need good staff to do it, and if a female is going to deliver the goods, they will hire a female. i just want to tell you about my own circumstances. i run a small to medium-sized enterprise that turns over about gbp 1 million a year. when i was elected here, my wife took on a much more significant role in my business, and she is now in charge of all the hiring of employees. we employee nine in the business and only one of them is a woman. now, that is not my decision: my wife does the hiring and firing. but she feels that, generally, men will do these dirty jobs better than women, and that is my wife’s decision. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well president, i am going to accuse you of gender discrimination. both the people you have chosen to blue card me are male. you should have alternated it: male and female. so you see you have to look to the way you do your job as well. but the point is that we absolutely have gender balancing in the education system. in fact, if you look at the people who get degrees, more women get them. they are getting the jobs in the workplace, but for various reasons they do not have the ambition to go right to the top because something gets in the way. it is called a baby. i have never had a baby, but i understand that if you do have a baby it can change your life and it changes your ambitions. so the route is there. those females who really want to get to the top will do so. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not think anyone should be given preferential treatment just on the criterion of their gender. it is irrelevant; it is about who can do the job. i note again, mr president, that you have picked another man; that is three in a row to have a go at me. come on, you sisters, where are you?
mr president, we certainly need more women in our boardrooms. we certainly need more women in politics. there can be no doubt about that. the question is how we go about it. i do not believe, ms reding, that your proposals will help the situation. i think that, on the contrary, they will make it worse. women business leaders tell me that, actually, they do not want to be put on boards by patronising laws. they want to be put there on merit. now, speaking as someone who has been discriminated against, i think all forms of discrimination are wrong, as is positive discrimination, because positive discrimination is discrimination, and discrimination creates victims. it does not matter what gender you are: if you believe in equality and you create discrimination, you create a victim. ms reding, do not legislate to make victims. that is not what you are in your job to do.
mr kelly, if you would like to come up here, privately i will show you the list of requests for the floor from the ppe group which shows exactly where you came in the pecking order. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 november 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by ashley fox and gerald häfner, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the location of the seats of the european union’s institutions (2012/2308(ini)) (a7-0350/2013).
rapporteur. − mr president, in the four years that i have been an mep, the question i am most frequently asked by my constituents is why there are two european parliaments. it is a good question and i challenge anyone here to provide a convincing answer. why do we spend eur 150 million a year maintaining two parliaments and travelling between them? at a time of austerity at home, when national governments are making painful spending cuts, how can we justify that expenditure? why, as we lecture our constituents on reducing their co2 emissions, do we emit 19 000 tonnes of the stuff every year when commuting between brussels and strasbourg? i do not think that there is anyone in this chamber who thinks the current arrangement of shuttling between the two cities is a good one. we all understand why strasbourg was chosen as the seat of the council of europe after the second world war. and we understand why the first european parliamentary assembly chose to sit here as well. it was a symbol of reconciliation between france and germany. it was a good choice. but times change and what was a symbol of reconciliation in 1950 is now a symbol of waste: a waste of time, a waste of energy and a waste of taxpayers’ money. the report before the house tonight is a genuine cross-party effort. i want to thank my co-rapporteur, gerald häfner, and also the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation. the report was passed by the committee on constitutional affairs by 22 votes to four. we reached a broad consensus that two principles should guide us in determining the seat of the european parliament: firstly, the european parliament should have one seat and, secondly, it should be the european parliament itself that decides where it sits. we conclude by committing parliament to introducing the treaty change necessary to give us that power. if we pass this report and follow it up with our treaty change, then we will compel the council of ministers to address an issue that it has evaded for too long. our report does not mention brussels or strasbourg by name. some members here want a single seat in brussels and some will want a single seat in strasbourg. we should not let that divide us. i happen to think that strasbourg is one of the most beautiful cities i have visited. it is clean, safe, welcoming and has a rich cultural heritage. in contrast, brussels can only boast one of those attributes. however, our personal views should not form the basis of our decision. we are here to represent our constituents and it is abundantly clear to me that they do not support the current position. our travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg has become an object of ridicule across the eu. support for membership of the eu is already wafer-thin in the united kingdom and the continuation of the travelling circus is one of several issues that further undermines support for our membership. i am proud to be co-author of the fox-häfner report. if members approve this tomorrow, we will have started an important process of reform. we will save hours of time and make this parliament more effective. we will save thousands of tonnes of carbon dioxide every year and, most important of all, we will save hundreds of millions of euros of taxpayers’ money.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions. − mr president, many years ago, in the previous parliament, the committee on petitions received six petitions on this subject yet, through various devices, we have been unable to debate it until now. i therefore welcome this debate. the monthly migration between brussels and strasbourg has become a symbolic negative issue for most eu citizens. we asked the administration to make a comprehensive analysis of the potential savings for our budget if parliament had only one place of work. we called on parliament to debate the matter and, if an appropriate vote is recorded on this report, on which i congratulate my colleague and his fellow rapporteur, we recommend that parliament initiate a treaty revision procedure under article 48 of the treaty on european union.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, as a farmer i seek practical solutions to problems. the eu’s wanton misuse of taxpayers’ money by financing the monthly trip to strasbourg is a problem that requires a solution. this huge and costly building is used only for 48 days per year. it is symbolic of eu waste. if you believe in the wickedness of co2 emissions, which most of you mistakenly do, then you should hate the strasbourg circus for that reason. so why not let out this building to two suitable tenants: the committee of the regions, and the european economic and social committee? everyone thus becomes a winner. the local economy here in strasbourg benefits from the activity of 1 000 individuals permanently involved, plus occasional big plenary events. the french have the prestige of playing host to two eu institutions, as well as the council of europe. the british taxpayer, who disproportionately funds the current annual gbp 180 million wastage, gets some relief – although he would of course be better off out of it altogether. i have listened to some of the meps here – yes, i do listen! – and you are all saying how important you are, and that you should be able to decide where you sit etc., but you are not important. this whole thing is devised so that you are simply a fig leaf of democracy. you cannot initiate legislation here. you have to bow and scrape in front of the commission and the european court of justice. until you can change that, nothing is going to happen.
mr gollnisch, you may wish to correct the record because earlier in your speech you said ‘the seat of the european parliament in brussels’. you may want to correct that. that is, of course, a matter for you.
mr president, when strasbourg was established as a seat of the european parliament, it was a symbol of hope: a beacon for a new world without war. it saddens me to say that strasbourg today has become a symbol of despair, representing an internal war between the few who wish to keep the seat and the many who can no longer justify its existence. it now represents all that is wrong with the european union: the waste, the bureaucracy, the absurdity – so much so that parliament’s presence here is often referred to as a ‘travelling circus’. meps must again make it clear that we want a single seat. and who needs to listen? let us face it – and to extend the circus metaphor – the elephant in the room is france. france needs to let go of the old dream and move towards a new europe. if the travelling circus continues, the big top may collapse on the european union once and for all.
rapporteur, blue-card answer to constance le grip, on behalf of marina yannakoudakis. − i am grateful for that question. you referred to respect for members. i do not think that the constant travelling, with the huge number of hours that are lost by us and by our staff, reflects respect for our work. the use of the word ‘circus’ refers to the joke that is our current working arrangement. the question i would put to you is this: would you like a single seat in strasbourg? if the answer is ‘yes’, as i suspect it is for some members, then surely we need to agree the principle of a single seat, and then agree that a future parliament can take that decision.
mr president, i welcome this report and offer my thanks to the rapporteurs for bringing it forward. indeed, mr president, we should recognise your work in this particular campaign. this is a long-overdue debate, and at last the voice of over one-and-a-quarter million citizens is actually being heard in this chamber. this is a wasteful practice at a time when these institutions are demanding budgetary constraint in the member states. with ordinary families feeling the grip of tax increases, this travelling circus – for that is indeed what it is – will cost taxpayers over eur 1 billion in the coming financial period. the report has been described as a key to unlock the process of a move towards a single seat. that is positive. however, we also need to have that support voiced in the council of ministers – and i am thinking even of my own prime minister, who has talked about reform of these institutions. perhaps this is a place where that reform could start straightaway. others tonight have also spoken of the historic nature of strasbourg as a symbol of reconciliation. there comes a time when countries and communities within those countries have to move forward, and we can no longer rely on that as the excuse for continuing to waste taxpayers’ money in these very difficult times. i come from northern ireland, a region where history is incredibly important. we are managing to move forward, and i believe europe should move forward in its process of reconciliation – and that would mean doing away with this seat.
rapporteur. − mr president, can i thank members for a very interesting and informative debate. i also pay tribute to you, mr president, for your work for the single seat group. it is a shame that mr schulz is not in the chair tonight, but perhaps appropriate that you have been in the chair. i want to address the point raised by mrs le grip and others as to why in this report we only dealt with the ‘seatʼ of the european parliament. members will be aware that when the committee on constitution affairs originally requested the report, we asked for it to be on the seat of this parliament. but miraculously that was changed by the conference of presidents – and who suggested that change? well, mr daul, a frenchman, the chair of the ppe group, who did not want us to have a report on that subject. the conference of presidents insisted that we have a discussion on ‘the seats܀ and so gerald häfner and i exercised our prerogative to say in the report that we made no further recommendations on the other institutions. we have had a lot of contributions tonight, but interestingly, only four members have spoken against the report – and all four of them are french! i think it is quite amusing when french colleagues say that to attack strasbourg is to attack europe. nonsense! nonsense on stilts. it is pro-european to be pro-reform because the issue of this travelling circus – which is a bad joke with european taxpayers – brings the eu into disrepute, and french members here should confess what they are doing. they are defending their selfish national interest and if the seat of the european parliament was in my home city of bristol, i would do the same and i would do it proudly, but i would not dress up that debate as being something to do with some wider interest. so please, ladies and gentlemen, french members, be honest: this is in your selfish national interest. say it, be honest and be proud, but the majority tomorrow will vote against you and i am confident we will have a very large majority.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 november 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the state of play of the doha development agenda (2013/2740(rsp)).
mr president, this proposal is for consumers. it puts basic information in a standard format to aid the comparison of investment products. i support a wide scope, including life insurance products which can be similar to other investment products and thus deserve side-by-side comparison. fee transparency in the proposed annex is also essential. retail investors must know what they will pay, for what, and the impact that it will have on their investment. no hidden costs should be allowed. i am also pleased that the committee on economic and monetary affairs adopted alde’s proposal for an online fund calculator to be developed by the european supervisory authorities. this would allow investors to compare the information provided to them by fund managers. various consumers have bought investment products that were complex or lacked transparency and were not right for them. alde does not want to ban products that have a useful function for the right investor and, with this in mind, we proposed the complexity label. this establishes union-wide criteria for the disclosure of complexity by product manufacturers in a retail context. it is a simple question. does this product contain one of six complex elements? yes or no. it does not replace the mifid test for investment firms on suitability for professional or retail investors. that serves a different purpose at a different level. finally, we have introduced great swathes of regulation at the higher level, but this is one piece of legislation where the result will be put in the hands of the ordinary person as it is more real to them than derivatives, solvency, capital and rating agencies. it deserves completion in this mandate. it deserves to be strong and meaningful.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, can i too begin by thanking colleagues for the excellent work they have done in trying to shape the cap and make sure parliament had a strong voice in it. as mr santos my colleague said, this is a compromise. there are good bits in that compromise and there are some areas we will be back looking at again in two yearsʼ time, because it will not work. the good parts are the move away from pure income support in the direct payments package towards incentives for developing a more sustainable agriculture and paying for public goods. the young farmer support is very welcome. the possibility for extra lfa support is also a very good measure, as is the greening. i believe it is a good measure. the problem i have with it lies in the detail and i will turn to that in a minute. we have also given flexibility, as mrs mcguiness said, to member states in the package to allow them to shape the cap to suit their own agricultural priorities; but as ever, we are waiting for them to use that power to deliver and tell us how they will use that flexibility, certainly in scotland. so these were all steps in the right direction, but there are two areas where i believe we have failed to reach a sensible outcome. on greening: i believe this is too narrowly focused on biodiversity measures alone at the expense of genuine attempts to reduce the use of scarce resources such as energy, to reduce fertiliser use and pesticide use and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. initially, of course, greening is voluntary, and i believe it should always be voluntary, but after two years it reverts to being compulsory where you will be punished if you are transgressing by having money taken away from your basic payment. as i said earlier, i believe that on greening, the review clause that is there in 2017 will be desperately needed to try and sort this out. the second point where i have real concerns is the flexibility between pillars. parliament rolled over too easily on that. the ability to transfer money from pillar one to pillar two and from pillar two back to pillar one undermines the very concept of fairness that lay at the heart of this reform and means that farmers in different countries can expect different levels of support. that undermines the commonality of the policy and indeed ensures that some farmers have a competitive advantage over others. finally, turning to an area where other speakers have raised their concerns, on delegated acts and the process, there is some suggestion that this is an attempt by the commission to rewrite the deal. if it is, we will definitely vote these delegated acts down. i also have one other concern: there was a scottish clause in there which was so important in dealing with the naked acre problem we have in scotland. we are now told that the use of that activity clause will rule out minimum stocking rates and if that is the case, the clause is worthless. i would like the commissioner maybe to respond to concerns over that in his final response.
blue-card question. – they are arguing that 5 % in efa is not enough and you need 10 %. could you imagine the public outcry there would be if we were to set aside 10 % of agricultural land – that is basically what it will be – at a time of rising food prices? if you really want to discredit the cap there is no better way to do it than to follow your suggestion.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to add my thanks to all the others for what has been an extremely long process. i do not think that many of us would want to go through it again, but i would like to thank everyone involved. as many involved in the process will know, i find it very difficult to agree with much of the final text. we could have achieved more and there is a lack of provisions which i consider essential in order to overcome the many challenges faced by the agriculture industry across the european union. i can support the rural development and horizontal regulations, for both will allow for more flexibility and common sense in the application of the common agricultural policy. however, the ecr believes that the overall package does not address the biggest challenge faced by farming in the european union, namely to produce more food using less land, less water, and less fertiliser and pesticides. instead, it focuses on greening proposals which will take the best land out of production. i support the aim of greening the cap, but this should be done by means of rural development schemes under the second pillar, not by means of a bureaucratic and complicated mandatory greening of direct payments that will bind our farmers with bureaucracy and red tape. i would also like to take the opportunity to say that i heard what the commissioner said about delegated acts, but i think he has got to take with him the message that has already been expressed in this house: if there is any attempt to change the political deal – and i recognise that it was a political deal, even if i do not agree with every part of it – the committee on agriculture and rural development and its coordinators will not tolerate it. i hope the commissioner and commission officials take with them the message which is very strong here today that we want to see implementation as it was agreed in the very deep and very finely-tuned political agreement which was made. we will not tolerate anything other than that.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, in this process of common agricultural policy reform, the commission appears to be misusing its power of the delegated act. for example, after weeks of discussion, parliament made it clear that there was agreement on headage payments for sheep in certain circumstances. the commission has restricted this to female sheep. i know that we in the committee on agriculture had a debate last year on the importance of females in agriculture, but is this not taking things just a little bit too far? if i look round this room i can distinguish males from females quickly in most circumstances, but the same cannot be said in relation to a flock of 1 000 commercial sheep. when the eu inspector turns up on the farm at a moment’s notice to have a look, those sheep have to be gathered up and the inspector will have to get down on his knees and lift the tail of every single sheep – which is a dirty and smelly job – to assess the gender of that sheep. the weather won’t be very nice either. commissioner, which of your gang is going to volunteer to do that job?
madam president, i am not quite sure how to follow that particular speech. however, while the importance of the cap to the farming community goes without saying, the cap is also important to europeʼs food security. this is an area where i do believe that this policy should have – and could have – gone much further in building a sustainable, competitive and productive sector. the principle of moving towards a land-based payment risks money going to less productive areas and therefore risks the growth of the agri and agri-food sector which is very important to the economy in my constituency. the policy is also burdensome to our farmers and we need to see real clarity in the delegated and implementing acts in order to make a difference for our farmers. with less money for rural development, we need to ensure that this is directed towards agriculture and the environment. finally, the wider context to this debate is the role of the large supermarkets and the issue of a fair distribution of profit within the supply chain. until this issue is sorted out, we will always be lagging behind in the agriculture sector.
blue-card question. – thank you for the opportunity – no, it is not what you expect; this is a friendly question. can you just confirm that what you have just said was as follows: that you believe that president schulz, the very important president of this european parliament, does not believe in democracy and that you, as a green mep, really do believe that?
mr president, i am glad to hear the tone taken in the debate today. i was worried this morning that there would be too much backslapping at how well we have all done. we have worked hard, we certainly have, and i am glad colleagues share my concern at this curate’s egg of a reform. there are advances and it is useful to remember that we have made major steps forward for new entrants, ended slipper farming, increased coupled support for hill farming and support for small abattoirs, short supply chains, cooperation and animal health and welfare. there have been advances, especially in rural development, although almost all of them have been voluntary and poorly funded. but this is not the reform it could have been and there are too many issues that have been parked. there is a real risk that the ‘commonʼ in the common agricultural policy will be less and less common depending upon the actions of the member states and local authorities. also, there are major question marks over the proportionality of penalties and the impact of delegated acts, so this is very far from being over. i would echo mr nicholson’s point that while it took a herculean effort to get here, this is very much not the end of this story; many of these issues will come back to haunt us because we have not been as brave as i feel we needed to be. on balance i can accept the package, but this is far from over.
mr president, i view this reform of the cap as a missed opportunity. after several years of hard work – you might describe it as running around in circles if you prefer – we find ourselves faced with a voting list which gives us no opportunity to express any desire for any meaningful and effective change. the direction of the last set of reforms has been reversed. moves towards a more market-focused approach have been reversed. wine quotas continue to 2030 – will they ever end? intervention continues for milk, beef and veal. the sugar quota has been continued. the balance for spending between member states has been lightly tinkered with, not fundamentally changed as it ought to be. many member states look west and see 40 % of the eu budget unfairly divided and unfairly distributed. the ability to move money from the second to the first pillar insisted upon by colleagues in this parliament threatens to contribute further to the complete undermining of any attempt to create a level playing field, which i consider vital to a single market in agricultural produce, and yet we seem to be moving away from it. finally, i want to mention greening. member states are currently making costly administrative changes to accommodate greening proposals, which i predict will have no beneficial impact on the environment at all. nothing has been agreed that will help farmers to farm more sustainably or to help to protect the environment. in five years’ time we will be hanging our heads in shame listening to demands from citizens for complete change.
mr president, agriculture is unlike any other industry because of the inelasticity of its demand and supply. that makes public-sector support absolutely indispensable. but that support ought to be member state support and not eu support. the uk receives the smallest share of common agricultural policy funding of any member state. the eu’s embrace of neo-liberalism opens the door to trade agreements that force europe’s farmers to face dangerous competition. that same philosophy allows supermarkets to treat farmers as though they were their own outworkers. the multitude of farmers face the tyranny of few buyers, which is a classic example of what an economist would call an oligopsony. we have been warned about a re-nationalisation of agricultural policy. if only that were the case! what we need is abolition of the cap, not its reform.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the liberal group welcomes the tight commission work programme and its strict priorities to complete before the end of the mandate. broadly speaking, the procedure for drafting the commission’s work programme works well between the commission and parliament. where it is lacking, however, is in the refusal of the council of ministers to play its part in agreeing a common work programme for all the institutions. instead, we have these troika-style presidency programmes for rotating chairs, which are distracting, partial, incoherent and not consistent. the time has come, if we are we are to improve the legislative performance of the union, for the european council to take a grip on the direction and management of the affairs of the ordinary council. i hope that the new parliament and the new commission will seek to secure the inclusion of the council in the formulation of future work programmes.
madam president, you have not yet asked whether members want to object to this oral amendment. my group does object to the oral amendment, so i hope you are going to give us the opportunity to object to mrs berès’ amendment before you proceed.
madam president, on securing the deal for 2014 the budget commissioner said: the beauty of a compromise is that no one is totally happy. this deal is less than the commission wanted. this deal is less than the parliament wanted. one would probably think that i would be one of the happy ones. well i am not. we need to cut the budget even further. i voted against this report because it was a bad deal. i have repeatedly called in this house for a bonfire of eu quangos. yet this agreement strengthens staffing levels and financial contributions to eu agencies. we need to be cutting costs and staff, not expanding at this time of austerity. we must keep cutting back eu expenditure until the european union is truly accountable, economical and efficient.
in writing. − i voted against the budget of the european union for 2014 because this is taxpayer money that lacks control. every year there is evidence of gross mismanagement and even fraud, to the point where the books of the commission have not been signed off by the auditors for 19 years. the report of the court of auditors for 2012 has the level of ‘irregularities’ up to 4.8%. no responsible person can vote for this. in addition, the united kingdom is a net contributor that has little say over what the money is spent on.
in writing. − i voted against this because i was against the mff and the way in which the discussions were concluded. the eu budget is of major importance to wales as cuts at eu level mean cuts to wales’s poorest communities.
in writing. − despite the lengthy negotiations that have taken place on this 2014 budget, i am afraid that i still do not feel that this budget represents a good deal that fully reflects the reduced spending, and the smarter spending, which we need. therefore, i could not support it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the use of this to finance further programmes in cyprus. it is important that funds are able to be used to their fullest potential to strengthen the economy, as we know well in wales.
in writing. − i abstained on this report because it would have led to a slight increase in the 2014 budget, which i do not support.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument to provide for additional financing of the cypriot structural funds programme, because i feel that this measure could have been better financed through redeployments and reallocations within the budget.
in writing. − this year the highest annual increase in unemployment in any eu country was recorded in cyprus. the jobless rate is at an all-time high at 17 %, with youth unemployment even higher. while an extra eur 100 million in structural funds may go some way to help kick-start cyprus’ ailing economy, let us not forget that eu aid to the island has been the cause – not the solution – of many of its problems. the euro area/imf bailout of eur 10 billion has seen depositors lose half of their savings, the economy shrink by 10 % and public debt on course to rise to 126 % of gdp. in short, the euro area is strangling the cypriot economy. all countries need to tighten their belts in the face of the current economic downturn. however the conditions imposed on cyprus by the euro area are transforming a recession into a depression. cyprus needs to leave the euro. only through an orderly exit from the single currency can it avoid its economy spiralling ever downwards.
in writing. − i voted against the la via report on dab 9/2013. i do not support the method chosen of financing the fund. eur 519 million was available at the end of 2013 through the ‘global transfer’, a mopping-up procedure that is executed in every budgetary year to reallocate unused funds in the budget, and the ecr believes that the dab 9/2013 would have been better financed using money from this procedure rather than placing eur 150m in the budget for 2014.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting assistance to romania, germany, austria and the czech republic where there have been natural disasters. solidarity is at the heart of eu co-operation and wales benefits from that through convergence funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the solidarity fund is a very important dimension of eu policy. it means that when countries or regions face difficult situations, such as those caused by extreme weather, they can ask the eu for additional funds to help them out. this is a vital lifeline in times of flooding and forest fires.
in writing. − i support the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to provide financial assistance to those member states affected by flooding and also by drought and forest fires. however, i do not agree with the method chosen to finance the fund in this instance, and therefore i could not support this draft amending budget no 9.
in writing. − i ran a successful company for 25 years. and one of the reasons the company was successful was that we did not spend money that we did not have. the commission has come, cap in hand, for an extra eur 11 billion, claiming that it needs the money to cover a shortfall. how on earth did the commission manage to spend so much money it did not have? it is asking today for enough money to buy 40 airbus a380s. this is not exactly the kind of small change that you lose down the back of the sofa. our citizens are fed up with the eu wasting their money. the fact that the commission can run up an overdraft of eur 11 billion does not instil me with confidence in this organisation’s sound financial management. i voted against yet another hand-out to spendthrift eurocrats and shall vote to block any further give-aways until they have learned to balance the books.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting assistance to romania, germany, austria and the czech republic where there have been natural disasters. solidarity is at the heart of eu co-operation and wales benefits from that through convergence funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the solidarity fund is a very important dimension of eu policy. it means that when a country or region faces difficult situations, such as those caused by extreme weather, they can ask the eu for additional funds to help them out. this is a vital lifeline in times of flooding and forest fires.
in writing. − my concerns surrounding these proposals relating to the eu solidarity fund lie with the method chosen to finance it (through the use of the flexibility instrument) and not with the use of the fund itself. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal to provide support to the aforementioned member states affected by drought and forest fires and also by floods.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal which means an increase in the social fund to france, italy and spain for specific action on unemployment. however, it could have been extended to some of the other hardest hit countries. some suspect that this deal was a result of haggling in the council linked to the uk rebate and the mff. youth unemployment is a massive problem in wales and in many other countries so this help should not be confined to just three member states.
in writing. − again, this proposal ties in to the wider deal struck on the mff. as it has been adopted here today, it will now see the flexibility instrument mobilised to contribute towards the financing of the increase in european social fund allocations to france, italy and spain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this, as the more clearly-defined governance structure should enable better accountability in a project which desperately needs it, and brings in the possibility of attracting private sector funding.
in writing. − i abstained on this proposal. i do not believe that this is a priority for wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it outlines several important eu actions for the successful implementation and exploitation of the two european satellite navigation systems. it stresses the importance of good governance and clear targets and actors for all actors involved, which i believe is important.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the implementation and exploitation of european satellite navigation systems because i wish for the eu to achieve an independent, precise and reliable european satellite navigation system which offers practical solutions to a variety of public sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i hope that this proposal will serve to strengthen the capacity of european satellite navigation system programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is very important that we help countries such as jordan, which are playing a very important role in protecting refugees from conflicts such as the syrian civil war. we must help them absorb the millions of refugees they are accommodating, including of course long-term refugees from palestine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of macro-financial assistance to jordan because i want to support jordan in its intake of millions of refugees from the syrian crisis, thereby providing practical assistance and stabilisation to the region.
in writing. − this macro-financial assistance represents a welcome move to support jordan in its recovery following the international financial crisis, and i voted in favour of approving that assistance.
in writing. − since 2011, jordan’s economy has suffered a number of setbacks. the civil war in syria has seen a huge influx of refugees to the country, whilst the political situation in egypt has disrupted gas supplies, leading to higher energy costs as alternative supplies have been sought. such events have compounded the financial strains caused by jordan’s pre-existing and on-going internal political reforms. as a stable arab monarchy that is of strategic importance to the wider security and stability of the middle east, it is vital that assistance is offered where appropriate. furthermore, it should be added that jordan is a strong ally of the eu and its member states, having entered into a formal association agreement in 2002. i am pleased to have voted in favour of awarding this loan, which will help jordan to stabilise its long-term financial position, enabling it to push ahead with its programme of reforms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, along with my labour colleagues, i believe that it is important that countries and blocs such as the eu work together to stop the conversion of illegal substances to illegal narcotics. this agreement will allow the eu and russia to strengthen cooperation by exchanging information, and we should support this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the eu-russia agreement precursors because i want further controls and regulations in the use of drugs to avoid the production of illegal narcotics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement, which should facilitate improved cooperation between the european union and the russian federation for the monitoring of trade in drug precursors. the diversion of these legal substances for use in illegal drug production is a problem that we have to work across borders to counter. i hope that this agreement can facilitate appropriate monitoring of legal trade flows in drug precursors so that we are better equipped to identify misuse.
in writing. − i voted in favour of approving these amendments to the list of third countries and organisations with which europol can conclude agreements.
in writing. − i have been looking closely at issues surrounding europol in recent weeks, particularly in conjunction with fair trials international, a legal ngo based in my constituency, which has just released a report on the work of interpol. i recently submitted a parliamentary question about the relationship between europol and interpol, specifically in relation to some countries’ abuse of interpol’s red notice system in politically motivated cases: the risk remains that if europol always shares and circulates interpol’s information, it could be indirectly assisting political prosecutions by undemocratic governments and thus broadening their abuse of human rights. similarly, questions remain about europol’s circulation of its own information to interpol or other parties, given the potential for this data to be abused. with these fears in mind, i call on the council to be extremely cautious in its extension of third-party agreements. although the need to share information is paramount, we must ensure that this process is not open to exploitation. i endorse the list of countries added in this report, which includes stable democracies and key partners such as brazil, georgia and mexico, but will continue to urge the utmost care in future agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe this was in the interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this technical amendment to the regulation on the european research infrastructures consortium, which will mean that associated countries can participate in erics.
in writing. − i abstained on the legislative resolution on the krehl and van nistelrooij report concerning common provisions for eu structural and cohesion funds. i am opposed to the macro-economic conditionalities it sets out which links eu cohesion policy to economic governance at eu level. furthermore it represents a move away for cohesion policy from addressing the divergences between the less developed and more developed regions by funding structural developments to provide regions with the capacity to develop. i am also against the overall cut in eu spending which it represents, particularly in a time of austerity. that said, i appreciate the importance of eu funding, particularly to my own constituency in ireland in the current economic climate. i also appreciate the socioeconomic safeguards included, such as the consideration of unemployment and poverty levels and the decrease in gdp that should limit the application of mec. for these reasons i felt an abstention was the most appropriate way to represent my opposition to the macro-economic conditionalities while at the same time not opposing the cohesion funding for the upcoming 2014-2020 funding period.
in writing. − i abstained in this important vote on how eu structural funds and investment funds are disbursed. the most important issue for wales was macroeconomic conditionality which would allow the commission to suspend eu funds for regions in member states that had violated the rules of the stability and growth pact. i wanted to vote against this. however, the voting order did not allow this. therefore i abstained. the report was adopted by parliament by a small majority.
in writing. − the uk conservative delegation abstained on this report. we acknowledge that some improvements have been made compared to the 2007-2013 budgetary period. we welcome that the overall budget has been cut by eur 23.9 billion. furthermore, as a party committed to fighting wasteful expenditure, we are encouraged that programmes in receipt of cohesion funding will be subject to greater conditionality than before. this move away from a traditional grants-based approach towards a more results-focused philosophy can be applauded. the creation of a performance reserve which holds back 6% extra funding for those projects which meet their targets, is an integral part of the ‘better spending’ agenda, and is warmly welcomed. certain criticisms remain, which prevented our delegation from voting in favour. the cohesion budget remains somewhat bloated, constituting an unacceptable one third of the eu budget. it is a source of on-going concern that every region in the eu will continue to be eligible for structural funding. we fundamentally disagree that member states should be subject to top-down binding targets, regarding their share of esf funding, and the share of funding which is allocated to certain other areas. we believe that it should be up to member states to determine their priorities for regional development spending.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament has voted in favour today of adopting this legislative package on future cohesion policy, including this regulation on the common provisions on european funds, which will outline the common rules for the key eu structural and investment funds. as i outlined in my speech to the chamber yesterday, structural funding from the european union is vitally important for improving economic competitiveness in my constituency of wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the common provisions regulation. the package that has been agreed in trilogues over the last few months represents a compromise that will mean that funding programmes are streamlined and simplified to ensure the greatest possible impact of eu funding. i am pleased that after months of negotiations the european parliament has succeeded in ensuring that issues such as more local and regional involvement in the partnership principle, a focus on social inclusion and youth employment measures and a more results-led approach to funding have been included in the final regulation. the adoption of the package will now mean that preparations for projects in my constituency of wales can get underway as soon as possible at the start of 2014 so that vital money is invested in boosting jobs and creating economic growth.
in writing. − from 2014 the social fund should be more effective and more focused on combating poverty and social exclusion. it should also make it easier for organisations to participate, as well as including a wider range of people. it is also linked, of course, with the youth employment initiative and youth guarantee scheme which is so important for wales. eur 6 billion has been earmarked for this. i was happy to support this proposal.
in writing. − the european social fund will in future be put to uses aimed at tackling poverty and social exclusion. i was happy to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − having earlier voted in favour of the cohesion fund, it is with regret that i must abstain on this issue. the cohesion fund is well targeted, allocating funds only to those countries most in need, i.e. those countries that have a gni of less than 90% of the eu average. whilst i would argue that there is a case for increasing that rate to 95%, the principle remains a worthy example. this week we have seen a real terms cut in the budget for the first time, a reflection of the economic climate in europe and around the world, but also an understanding that the eu needs to take a more logical approach to its financing. transferring large sums of money from member states to the eu, for the money then to be returned later via a series of programmes and initiatives does not always make sense for the eu as a whole. as individual member state governments’ tackle large budget deficits, the eu needs to respond with a smarter and more streamlined budget. by prioritising funding only to those most in need, not only can the overall budget be reduced but the efficacy and efficiency of initiatives can be improved.
in writing. − today i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund. i did so because i believe that european social funds must play a fundamental role in meeting the social and employment objectives of europe 2020. currently, there are around 23 million people unemployed in europe, with a further 30 million under serious threat from social exclusion. as the eu’s principle instrument for employment promotion, i believe that in supporting this report myself and my colleagues are making moves towards a more socially inclusive eu, with higher levels of employment and education. i hope that this report will be implemented swiftly, as there are many key projects in wales and the uk as a whole that are waiting to receive their funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the european regional development fund and the ‘investment for growth and jobs’ goal for a number of reasons. in the first instance investment for growth and jobs is extremely important especially in the current economic climate. in addition objectives for energy efficiency, renewable energy and low-carbon economy were included, including an increased minimum share allocated to low-carbon economy. however some aspects of the report i am less supportive of, including funding support for large enterprises which i oppose. eu funding should specifically target small and medium enterprises (smes) who need it the most. in addition the support available for airport infrastructure has been limited albeit to environmental protection measures only. i would have preferred broader support to such infrastructure especially in the context of ireland being an island. despite some misgivings and considering the importance and positive aspects of erdf investment in growth and jobs, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − the erdf is the biggest single source of eu funding for economic, social and territorial cohesion. it has made a huge contribution to the welsh economy and i voted in favour of this new proposal. it will now include much higher levels of spending on energy efficiency and renewables, for example in the housing sector. it was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. − after a year of tough negotiations with the council, the outcome of the vote on the european regional development fund (erdf) represents a victory for parliament. meps have secured more substantial and favourable funding for eu regions to invest in development projects, as well as achieving more favourable pre-financing and co-financing rates for the eu’s outermost regions. my own constituency is set to be classified as a ‘transition’ region under new categorisation for the 2014-2020 period, meaning more leeway in how erdf funding is spent. nevertheless, the fact that 60% of funding spent must satisfy four thematic areas of the europe 2020 strategy can only be considered a good thing, given the strategy’s commitment to sustainable transport, promotion of employment and education, as well as research and innovation. moreover, the british prime minister recently announced that northern ireland was to receive an allocation of approximately eur 456 million as part of the ‘investment for growth and jobs goal’, which is fantastic news for my constituents. the erdf is not absolutely perfect. for instance, investment in constructing regional airports can no longer be supported by erdf funding. nevertheless, the overall package represents a very good deal in terms of investing for growth and jobs.
in writing. − the european parliament has voted in favour today of adopting this legislative package on future cohesion policy, including this european regional development fund regulation, which will focus spending on objectives such as the move towards a low carbon economy and supporting sme competitiveness. as i outlined in my speech to the chamber yesterday, structural funding from the european union is vitally important for improving economic competitiveness in my constituency of wales.
in writing. − the erdf is a vital tool to address the large disparities that still exist across the eu in terms of economic and social development, and i voted in favour of this report. the new elements in the compromise agreed on this package aim to increase the effectiveness of the erdf in creating jobs, supporting innovation and reaching environmental goals. i can already see how the erdf makes a difference in wales and, with the new flexibility arrangements agreed in this package, i hope that the effectiveness of the funding will increase even more so that infrastructure projects and support for communities can continue to have a positive impact on the lives of my constituents.
in writing. − erdf is a vital tool to address the large disparities that still exist across the eu in terms of economic and social development and i voted in favour of this report. the new elements in the compromise agreed on this package aim to increase the effectiveness of erdf in creating jobs, supporting innovation and reaching environmental goals. i can already see how erdf makes a difference in wales and, with the new flexibility arrangements agreed in this package, i hope that the effectiveness of the funding will increase even more so that infrastructure projects and support for communities can continue to have a positive impact on the lives of my constituents.
in writing. − on the pakarinen report on european regional development fund and the ‘european territorial cooperation’ goal i voted in favour. the report represents an increase in total allocation to the european territorial cooperation goal which has been very beneficial to ireland north and south. also it specifically refers to the cross-border programmes in ireland stating that the erdf should contribute to promote social and economic stability in the regions concerned. however i do have some reservations concerning the eni instrument of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) mentioned in the report.
in writing. − i was pleased that sustainable tourism, culture and natural heritage were included as part of a territorial strategy and job creation. these are all issues with huge potential for the welsh economy. there is also reference to social inclusion. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and welcome the proposed support for territorial cooperation, including sustainable tourism, culture and natural heritage. next year the people of scotland will have the opportunity to vote for independence and, in the event of scottish independence, it will be important for all the people of scotland, ireland and what remains of the uk to maintain cooperation in areas of mutual interest.
in writing. − the european parliament has voted in favour today of adopting this legislative package on future cohesion policy, including this regulation on european regional development fund support for european territorial cooperation. as i outlined in my speech to the chamber yesterday, structural funding from the european union is vitally important for improving economic competitiveness in my constituency of wales.
in writing. − european territorial cooperation is an important framework for implementing projects involving national, regional and local actors from different eu member states as well as third countries. i am in favour of this kind of cross-border approach, which can be vital in addressing the economic and social challenges facing member states and regions. the simpler and standardised rules negotiated by the european parliament in this package will ensure increased flexibility for partners and investment priorities. with these necessary measures in place, stakeholders from across the eu can work together so that funds are invested in the best possible way.
in writing. − even though wales does not qualify for this fund which is awarded to member states, i supported the report because it plays such a key part in reducing disparities in development. my group succeeded in improving the report more by including reference to the rights of people with disabilities, no funding for nuclear power plants, funding for energy efficiency and adapting to climate change.
in writing. − the cohesion fund plays an important role in delivering fairness across the eu. i welcome this report and in particular support the prohibition on the fund’s use for constructing nuclear power stations.
in writing. − the cohesion fund comprises one of six regulations of the overall cohesion package, which is a eur 325 billion investment with enormous opportunities for the 2014-2020 period. the cohesion fund lies at the heart of the eu’s growth agenda, and as such is the largest instrument available to the eu to drive investment and to promote growth and jobs. the overwhelming majority in favour of the cohesion package demonstrates that the newly streamlined cohesion policy has real potential for addressing economic and social disparities amongst member states and regions, reducing unemployment and ending stagnant levels of growth in the coming years. european structural and investment funds have made a valuable contribution to public programmes in my own constituency throughout the last number of years. my hope is that the cohesion fund agreed will simplify the funding process and harmonise eligibility rules to the benefit of northern ireland’s economic development. moving forward, i believe that the whole cohesion package ought to proceed in a timely fashion to allow member states to negotiate partnership agreements with the commission in regard to how these funds will be spent. only at this level will the true potential of streamlined cohesion funding be fully felt.
in writing. − the cohesion fund concentrates on infrastructure investment in transport, energy and telecommunications in central and eastern european states. i support the revised regulation, given its continued sole concentration on the poorest regions and the poorest member states in the eu.
in writing. − i voted abstention on zeller report on european groupings of territorial cooperation. there were improvements made by this report including simplification, flexibility and the reduction of red tape to the formation of egtcs. however i had some concern over the issue of employment provisions for the staff of egtcs. the report provides that egtc members can choose between the law of the seat of the grouping, the law where that staff works or the national law of the staff in question. this is vague and could be detrimental to workers’ rights. furthermore i have some reservations on egtcs as they promote opening markets within the grouping that could be detrimental for non-eu third countries. on balance i felt abstention was best.
in writing. − these groupings encourage cross-border co-operation between various public authorities. i voted in favour of the report and in favour of simplifying the authorisation procedure to make it easier for local authorities in wales to participate.
in writing. − european groupings of territorial cooperation allow for cross-border cooperation whilst recognising the democratic legitimacy of independent member states. i voted in favour of this report and fully support the ability of public authorities to cooperate across boundaries as they see fit.
in writing. − egtcs are voluntary instruments which act as legal bodies to provide legal personality to the cooperation of local and regional authorities from different member states in the use of eu funding. the grouping brings together actors in at least two member states into a joint organisation with its own budgetary, organisational and contractual capacities. this amending regulation seeks to remove the administrative barriers which some actors claim have hindered the development of egtcs.
in writing. − the egtc will facilitate cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation with the aim of strengthening the economic and social cohesion of the eu. i voted in favour of this report, which revises the existing regulation on egtc to allow the continued operation of structures and also bring in new simplification proposals to increase performance. i support the report’s aim of ensuring more visibility and communication and also the clarification of operational rules.
madam president, at the 100 largest companies listed on the london stock exchange, just 19 % of the board members are women. this may be a cause for concern, but i cannot accept that the best means of rectifying it is the imposition of mandatory quotas offering a top-down, one-size-fits-all approach. we have seen the negative effects of such policies in norway, where there is a feeling that women have been appointed as acts of tokenism, rather than on genuine merit. this is beneficial neither to women, nor to efficient enterprise. voluntary-based schemes which work around individual companies, business models and countries should instead be encouraged and prioritised. this allows the right balance between ensuring that candidates are selected entirely on individual merit, whilst working towards a wider aim of improving gender balance. therefore, i voted against this report on mandatory quotas.
in writing. − i voted against this, as it sets back the cause of the advancement of women in the higher echelons of industry. it lays female candidates for non-exec posts open to the charge that they were only appointed for gender balance reasons, and could exclude male candidates who are more strongly qualified. it is also a march into areas where european legislation is not required, and into social engineering.
in writing. − this proposal aims at introducing binding legislation to increase the proportion of women on company boards. this is something on which organisations like chwarae teg have done excellent work in wales. i very much hope that the eu governments will now move forward with this. self regulation has not worked. this report sets a target of a minimum 40% women non-executive directors otherwise they will face sanctions.
in writing. − the scottish government has set a target of 40 per cent female membership of public body boards as part of its wider equality strategy. i believe that a similar target in the private sector is reasonable and was able to support this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because despite there being parts that i did not agree with i think it is of the utmost importance to signal to both member states and to large companies that this proposal should be finalised before the european elections. i welcome the compromise found at committee level for this report. gender diversity on boards leads to more sustainable decisions, and therefore to a more resilient european economy.
in writing. − whilst i am supportive of this report’s goal to achieve a more even gender balance amongst the non-executive directors of companies, i do not believe that the introduction of a 40% quota represents the right means to achieve the desired goal. instead of the european union level non-flexible approach that this report puts forward i would like member states to work hard to build on the success that some voluntary national measures have already achieved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the cap is of crucial importance to welsh farming and rural areas. the reform process has been long and detailed and we need to move forward with the transition to the new regime.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the rural development part of this report but against the others. this is because i believe that this reform of the cap has been a missed opportunity, and many parts of the report do not lead to a greener, more sustainable and transparent agricultural policy.
in writing. − i did not support this proposal, as i believe it neither makes the cap greener, fairer or fully legitimate, nor does it represent a significant step towards the delivery of public benefits. i very much welcome the achievement on transparency, as i have always pushed for a full disclosure of whom cap payments are being made to. although the agreement exempts small farmers, it represents an improvement in the legitimacy and accountability of the cap. overall however, i believe it is a missed opportunity. the reform does not lead to a decisive shift in favour of a ‘public money for public goods’ philosophy, benefitting society at large by meeting the social, economic and environmental concerns facing rural communities. moreover, instead of delivering a greener cap that would represent a real shift towards greener farming in europe, this reform offers only a ‘green washʼ, which will exempt more farmers from applying the green measures than it will deliver in benefits for the environment.
in writing. − this regulation governs the financing of cap payments along with rules on reporting, monitoring, compliance and sanctions. it is mainly a technical dossier and reflects changes agreed in the other dossiers. the ecr group gained some successes in this dossier. greening penalties will be phased in gradually, control requirements can be more flexible to reflect risk of non-compliance, sanctions should be more proportionate for minor infringements and more flexibility on the setting of exchange rates was approved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and also in favour of referring it back to the committee to allow for a first reading agreement. it sets out common rules for eu funds. it is essential that the rules are clear and effective to ensure that funding is used to stimulate the economy. this is the aim in wales. this report includes a code of conduct and the structure of monitoring committees.
in writing. − i voted in favour of key information documents for investment products because i am in favour of having a new, innovative standard for product information that is short and plain speaking, therefore much more consumer-friendly for those wishing to invest.
in writing. − it is very important that we maintain the highest possible standards of information disclosure and transparency for consumers so that they can make sound investment decisions; i have concerns about this report because i do not believe that it takes the right measures to guarantee such standards. this report, despite being passed in committee, failed to gain a mandate for trialogue. we and many epp members voted against the text as a mandate as it extends the scope of a relatively straightforward regulation in an unhelpful way. this regulation is about improving information disclosure and transparency in the investment market for retail investors. whilst in committee we managed to bring the scope back towards the commission’s proposal, the sales annex, complexity label and product intervention articles remain. the scope also still includes corporate bonds, pension products (when the lack of a clear eu definition of a pension product means that it is not clear what this should cover or not) and does not include all the insurance-based investment products that we would like to see (whilst leaving all general insurance and simple life insurance out of scope).
in writing. − this is more commonly known as pillar ii of the cap. it provides funding for the general economic, social and environmental well-being of rural areas. it also funds agri-environmental schemes, funding for less favoured areas and the leader programme for local groups. i voted for this because it is of vital importance to wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, as i have always supported the rural development pillar, believing its payments represent far better value for public money than pillar 1 support. i want the cap not just to work in the interests of farmers, but to work in the interests of society at large, meeting the social, economic and specifically environmental concerns facing european rural communities and meeting the concerns of the public at large. i believe the rural development pillar is the best mechanism for delivering these outcomes because it supports schemes enhancing biodiversity, stimulating innovation and competitiveness, encouraging young entrants, supporting areas with natural constraints, etc. successive cap reforms have set a direction of travel moving away from production-linked support towards the delivery of public benefits. i am disappointed this cap review did not take further steps in that direction, strengthening the only part of the cap providing tangible benefits for the euʼs rural communities and delivering good value for citizens.
in writing. − i am pleased to see the european parliament adopting this regulation on the european agricultural fund for rural development. i do hope that back home we will be able to use these funds to provide some of the support that our rural communities and our farmers in wales need. this regulation covers the rules surrounding the use of rural development (rd) funds and represents pillar 2 of the cap. key issues in this dossier relate to the link between the greening measures in direct payments and agri-environmental schemes in rural development, the farm advisory service, risk management tools and the distribution of funding between member states. most rural development schemes are voluntary and member states choose which ones they want to develop. in addition, funds are co-financed by the member state. the proposed text excludes the possibility of double funding for the same programmes under both pillars of the cap, it includes forestry in rd programmes, delays the introduction of new biophysical criteria for less favoured areas (lfas) and reserves 30% of funding to agri-environmental, organic, and forestry programmes.
madam president, i voted against this report because the proposals fall far short of the requirements we need to ensure a fairer common agricultural policy. with regard to the ending of the beet sugar quotas in 2017, the proposal fails to make any real concession to the cane sugar sector. with limitless beet products from 2017, the cane sugar sector will be exposed to greater competition and, at the same time, will be held back by the unchanged eu rules on the import of cane. we want a stable sugar market. we should deregulate the cane sector as well as the beet sector. we should do more to reduce tariff barriers and to make it easier to import cane sugar into the eu. with a weaker cane sector, african, caribbean and pacific countries will also be at a disadvantage, unable to find a market for their crop in the eu. failure to reform will result in the closure of cane sugar refineries across the eu and will cause thousands of job losses. people rely on their jobs to feed their families, and we should not support these damaging proposals because they put people’s livelihoods at risk.
in writing. − i oppose this, as it extends both sugar quotas and wine quotas, to which i am strongly opposed, as well as increasing the possibilities of intervention in the dairy product market. it moves in precisely the wrong direction on reform of the cap and negates the limited efforts of the commission in freeing up the market in agricultural products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is part of the whole cap reform and is of great importance to the welsh economy.
in writing. − i did not support this proposal, as i want to see a competitive, thriving and sustainable eu agriculture sector. this proposal, instead of moving towards greater competitiveness, represents an unfortunate step backwards. i believe market intervention mechanisms should only serve as a safety net used in times of genuine crisis, such as outbreak of a disease, and when there is a risk of significant disruption to the market. previous reforms of the cap have set a direction of travel moving away from trade-distorting measures. i am disappointed this process was not continued, further reducing market intervention and encouraging farmers to better manage risk. i also believe it is important to stick to our commitment of supporting the euʼs responsibilities towards developing countries. all the trade-distorting elements of the cap, such as export subsidies, which are damaging to least developed countries, must be phased out. the agreement on export subsidies represents a step towards their elimination, but i want to go further and to see them completely abolished.
in writing. − i feel strongly that this single cmo regulation moves the common agricultural policy in the wrong direction – returning to interventionist policies when we should be favouring a more market-orientated approach. this regulation covers market management measures and together with the direct payments regulation makes up pillar 1 of the cap. the text includes proposals to extend sugar quotas until 2017 and wine quotas until 2030, despite the commission originally proposing to abolish them in 2015. in addition, intervention possibilities will be increased for milk and new rules on delegated acts for beef and veal intervention are likely to be devised to increase use of intervention in these sectors. the use of private storage aid will be extended and producer organisations (po) in some sectors will gain powers to control supply and to enforce these rules on non-members of the po. the eu school milk and fruit scheme is extended and the text allows for new collective bargaining powers for pos in beef, arable and olive oil sectors. the agreed text significantly alters the commission proposal and sets back the process of reforming the cap by moving away from a more market facing and liberal policy.
in writing. − 80% of welsh farmers are dependent on cap direct payments for the viability of their farms. that is why the long debate on reform of the cap has been so important to wales and why i worked with welsh farming unions to ensure the uk government and uk parties did not achieve their aim to scrap these payments. i am glad that the payments will continue and that we have an adequate period to introduce the changes with minimum disruption. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i did not support this proposal, as i believe it neither makes the cap greener, fairer or fully legitimate, nor does it represent a significant step towards the delivery of public benefits. successive reforms have set a direction of travel moving away from production-linked support towards greater competitiveness and a greater focus on the delivery of public benefits. i want to see this process continued. cap funds should be geared to the benefit of society at large, meeting the social, economic and environmental concerns facing rural communities. such a payment system is currently supported via the rural development pillar (pillar 2) and for me shifting pillar 1 funds to pillar 2 is the way forward. although this proposal allows for such a transfer, it does not make it compulsory for all member states. moreover, it moves away from previous reforms by e.g. reintroducing coupled payments, and allowing for transfer of funds away from pillar 2. instead of delivering a greener cap that would represent a real shift towards greener farming in europe, this reform offers only a ‘green washʼ, which will exempt more farmers from applying the green measures than it will deliver in benefits for the environment.
in writing. − this regulation covers the rules surrounding direct payments to farmers and forms the major part of the first pillar of the cap. it includes the single farm payment, the new greening payment, the young and small farmers’ payments. in addition, it outlines the rules on how member states can ‘couple’ payments to production, specific rules for certain crops, the distribution of payments within and between member states and the amount of money member states can transfer between direct payments (pillar 1) and rural development (pillar 2). i do not support this regulation. it does not address the key challenge of food security, adds complexity and bureaucracy, undermines competitive and efficient farming, reverses previous reforms and will lead to an even more unequal playing field for uk farmers compared to their competitors in the rest of europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is part of the whole cap reform and is of great importance to the welsh economy.
in writing. − it is important that the correct provisions are in place so that farmers continue to receive their payments in 2014. however as a result of the overall agreement reached on direct payments i do fear that this regulation will now bring forward many of the measures that i feel do not support competitive and efficient farming.
in writing. − i supported this proposal to extend the de-commitment period from two to three years for three countries because of difficulties caused by the mff deal in the european council. i can understand why the needs of particular nations have to be considered and would want the same solidarity for wales in the future.
in writing. − i have concerns with regards to the equal treatment of all member states when it comes to some aspects of this proposal and for this reason i opted to abstain in the vote on this report today.
in writing. − as a result of the mff deal and in particular the uk rebate, some member states will have difficulties in terms of the european social fund allocation. this relates in particular to youth unemployment measures which we know the importance of in wales. i supported additional allocations to france, italy and spain.
in writing. − the european social fund is an important tool for all member states and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report outlines provisions to provide increases to certain member states in their esf allocations. the provisions in this report tie into overall negotiations on the mff. i have reservations about this particular use of the flexibility instrument; however i am glad that we have been able to secure approval on the overall mff here this week.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal in support of the rapporteur and against the recommendation of the committee on fisheries. there is an international obligation to manage the tuna fishery in kiribati using the vessel day scheme. this would make it consistent with international law. whilst the eu bilateral fisheries agreements with the western pacific may not directly affect wales, it is important that all agreements have legal certainty.
in writing. − i voted against this protocol and question its legality. more importantly, i question the eu’s continued policy of promoting european fleets fishing on the opposite side of the planet.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the ec-kiribati fisheries partnership agreement because i want further economic development with foreign countries outside the eu, in this instance through fishing opportunities for tuna vessels
in writing. − i welcome the continuation of this fisheries agreement between the eu and kiribati in the south pacific and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
madam president, yesterday we voted on the budget of the european parliament for the next seven years, and we voted for a budget cut. now we have to decide how that money is to be spent – and it has to be better spent. our monthly trip between these two parliaments is not just a waste of time and energy, but it is a waste of money. it is gbp 928 million – just think what we could do with that money. the vast majority of members of this house have voted to stop the two seats. to the 121 members who voted to keep it, i would say think of the schools you could have and think of the hospitals, the doctors and the teachers. examine your hearts. you are letting down the people you represent when you are prepared to be an iconic waste of money. president hollande, chancellor merkel, please listen to your people and stop wasting their money.
madam president, there are few issues which have the power to unite all sides of this house like the embarrassment and scandalous waste of the strasbourg circus. month after month, the lorries and trains arrive with the personnel, papers and equipment needed to sustain a duplicate parliament, and then three days later they disappear, leaving this building empty. the issue is not just the irony and hypocrisy of voting to cut the eu budget and preaching fiscal responsibility to millions of citizens whilst we sit here in this superfluous chamber and throw away eur 200 million yearly. rather, it goes to the heart of democratic accountability and the obligation for elected representatives to work where they wish, in the service of the people they represent, rather than having a member state government determined to thwart the views of the vast majority of eu citizens and governments on the grounds of naked self-interest and distant, sometimes forgotten, symbolism. let us consign to the past the worst excesses of the eu and the scandalous waste of maintaining two duplicate parliaments. let us decide for ourselves where we work. please, france and germany, wake up!
in writing. − i supported this proposal which has been hailed as another step forward in parliament’s demand to decide on its own seat. it calls for the parliament to initiate the procedure for treaty change to achieve this. the one seat campaign, of which i am a member, is gathering momentum. i know that whenever i speak to schools, colleges or community groups in wales they are horrified by the ‘travelling circus’ story. it is costly, wasteful, environmentally damaging and inefficient. i hope the demand for change from constituents in wales will increase, like those in other countries, so we can end this practice which undermines the eu itself.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that parliament should have the right to decide where it sits. parliament’s role in the eu has changed since strasbourg was first picked as its seat, and splitting its time between two locations is no longer a sensible nor a logical idea.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this because i have consistently supported and campaigned for the european parliament to have a single seat.
in writing. − i was very pleased to vote in favour of this report which has been jointly led by my conservative colleague. this is an incredibly important report and in supporting it we have rightly rejected the continuation of this dual-seat system. the costs, both environmental and monetary, of relocating to strasbourg for twelve sessions a year cannot be justified to our taxpayers and i hope that the adoption of this report today will bring us a step closer to securing a single location for the european parliament.
in writing. − it has been estimated that the additional annual costs of having parliament spread between brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg is between eur 156 million and eur 204 million. in a time when all member states have had to tighten their belts and make smarter budgetary choices, i consider this expenditure to be an unnecessary waste of taxpayer money, and this is why i have voted in favour of the report on the location of the seats of the european union’s institutions. i believe that the parliament should have the power to decide its own location, and to use this power to have a single seat in brussels. parliament’s role has changed since the seat was assigned to strasbourg, and it is increasingly unacceptable for national governments to continue with two seats against the wishes of european voters. i hope that this report will be a first step towards one seat, which will make parliament more efficient and environmentally friendly.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, it is very nice to hear the commissioners thanking the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, but what about the opinion creators for all the other committees who are going to speak for the next 20 or 30 minutes? i can assure you that we worked hard too. i am giving the opinion of the committee on development. we have three priorities which we hope horizon 2020 will use. one is to open the projects to developing countries, both for participation in the projects and for access to the results of the joint research. secondly, the development committee wants in particular to see strengthened action in the health sector, especially for neglected infectious diseases. thirdly, we want to see a greater emphasis on climate change and biodiversity, not forgetting the role of space research. i am proud to say that i am still within my one minute.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. − mr president, in our member states we need ideas, ideas that will become innovations, innovations that will become products and products that will ultimately drive our competitiveness. i have long argued that research funding should form a larger part of an overall reduced eu budget, providing support for our universities and innovative enterprises so that they can work together to make the most of each other’s resources. it is one area where the eu can really add value. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education on horizon 2020, i am glad to say that my colleagues had, by and large, similar views to mine. of particular importance to our committee was that horizon 2020 complements other european programmes such as the erasmus programme. it is also pleasing to see specific mention of cultural heritage and the inclusion of research into sport and health. results in this area can really make a difference to people’s lives. most importantly, the application process should be streamlined and made less bureaucratic. i hope that we can achieve this with horizon 2020.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, yesterday we voted for lower european budgets. today, we are making sure that the money is better spent. investment in science, in research and in innovative industry will drive our growth and is vital to keeping our competitive edge. sometimes this type of investment can be done better nationally, but there are other times when international collaboration surely does add value. in my own region, we have not only the world-famous cambridge university but also other less well-known organisations like the universities of essex, hertfordshire and east anglia. and in my region i have seen people working on everything from curing cancer to wiping out crop diseases, from delivering cleaner energy to developing clearer communications. researchers from across europe have told me their good news and have also told me of their problems. i would like to thank them for their ideas, and i hope that we find them some solutions. my first point concerns excellence. it is vital that these funds are allocated on the basis of excellence. increasing participation is important, but not at the cost of excellence, because money must go to the best projects. my second point is simplification. too often in the past, participants have struggled with over-bureaucratic rules, and in some cases they have not even received money that they should have got. our amendments, taken together, should make the process simpler, decisions should be faster and everything should be more transparent. thirdly, it has been good to support some individual areas of research such as degenerative diseases, nuclear fusion, energy storage, crop compliance and plant science, all of which are really important. furthermore, because innovation happens in businesses big and small, we have tried to get a balance, and the first funding calls for small businesses are going to be open really soon, so they had better get ready. finally, on transparency, i am afraid i have already picked up at least one concern – voiced by a leading professor – that a call is being directed at a particular potential participant. so, please commissioner, we need transparency: before the bids, during the process and then with open access to the results. please commissioner, will you make sure that everyone involved follows a transparent process?
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, horizon 2020 talks in bold optimistic language about excellent science, industrial leadership and societal challenges like climate change – although in fact we have not seen very much climate change for the last 20 years. yet the action we are taking on climate is both doomed and disastrous. it is doomed because, while we agonise over emissions, there are 12 000 new coal-fired plants in the global pipeline, including a couple of dozen in germany. it is time to face the truth: that global emissions will keep rising for decades and there is nothing that we can do about it. it is also disastrous, because we are forcing up energy prices to create what commissioner tajani has called an industrial massacre. we are forcing households and pensioners into fuel poverty: this winter, european citizens will die as a result of our climate policies. we are undermining industrial competitiveness, abandoning industrial leadership, driving businesses out of the eu entirely so that they take their jobs and their investment with them, and choosing poverty for our children and our grandchildren. it is not just energy prices, it is energy security too. our over-reliance on ineffective and intermittent renewables is now threatening our security of supply. just wait until the lights go out. then you will find you have got a real societal challenge. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you claude, but was there a question there somewhere? i am surprised you did not mention the philippines earlier. are we to feel guilty for the victims of the galveston hurricane in 1900 as well? are we to feel guilty for the victims of the lynton and lynmouth flood disaster in my country in 1952? there has always been weather. there have always been climate disasters. if you look at the record of hurricanes, there have been fewer major hurricanes per year in the last 20 years than there were in the previous 50. it is a total pretence. you know perfectly well that the temperature has not increased significantly for 17 years. you are desperate to keep your myth alive, so you insist on making capital on the backs of dead people in sardinia.
madam president, i am pleased to see some of the other horizon 2020 rapporteurs here. my report was adopted with a massive majority earlier this week. i look forward to members joining me in a similarly massive majority which they richly deserve. i am pleased with the cooperation i have had with my fellow rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs in what has been quite a vital process. i look forward to those remaining reports being successful. horizon 2020 for me represents a next step in european research and excellence, one in which my country, the uk, has played a leading role and benefitted greatly. for the next seven years we will have newer, bigger, more ambitious frameworks to invest in our future; one where young european scientists and researchers will not feel the need to move elsewhere in order to continue with their world-beating research that needs our support. this is not only an investment in brilliant science: it is also a support for close-to-market research which helps companies, and in particular smes, to bridge the difficulties of bringing new products to market, and reinvests vital funds in the european community.
madam president, money by itself does not produce intellectual inspiration. that is to be found in what a commission 2020 document described as a ‘talented and creative populationʼ. that is europeans, if you were wondering. indeed, a disproportionately large number of inventions and innovations come from europe in general, and from a country that modesty prevents me from mentioning in particular. perhaps ensuring the survival of those talented populations from the replacement from which they are now suffering would be the best way of encouraging and nurturing inventiveness. there are some other populations in the world that have been most cruelly deprived of their fair share of those gifts. does the public sector, preferably at member state level, have a role to play? historically, neither inventions nor innovations receive public funds. however, subsidies are contagious and countries and trading blocs that need to compete must match the subsidies of their rivals. will research and development ensure that we can compete? not if the wage levels of competitors are a fraction of our own, or if the elite talent of our competitors is to copy our innovations in breach of patent rights.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − madam president, as rapporteur for the imco committee opinion on cosmi, my priority was to encourage the competitiveness and growth of eu enterprises, facilitate better access to finance for businesses, and to promote entrepreneurship and wealth creation. in imco we focus a lot on smes, as they are crucial job and growth catalysts for the eu economy. we sent a strong message in our committee that administrative and regulatory burdens, as well as time-consuming barriers for smes, need to be reduced. in this regard, i am pleased to see that these priorities, our calls for fitness checks and existing legislation were included in the final agreed text and that the lighter regimes providing for sme exemptions on eu legislation shall be possible. we also stress that it is important that the enterprise europe network focus on added-value measures such as the identification of programmes which could improve the competitiveness of and growth in the single market. but finally, in order to ensure that funds reach smes, we called for a transparent monitoring system to be put in place to ensure that banks use the funds and guarantees to increase their sme lending.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. − madam president, the eu can help small businesses in two ways. firstly, it can ensure that the obligations placed on small companies are as easy as possible. this means cutting red tape, and especially unnecessary administrative and regulatory burdens. secondly, it can make it easier for people to start and develop their own businesses – and it is good news that the eu programme for smes will include a loan guarantee facility. i am also pleased that the new scheme will pay attention to new potential entrepreneurs, especially women. i worked on the opinion for this report for the women’s rights committee and also authored an own-initiative report on female entrepreneurs. some of the recommendations i made in that report were taken on board by the commission. as a former businesswoman, i know that having more women in business is good for the economy. i hope that the new eu programme will create a fresh wave of entrepreneurs and that many of them will be women.
madam president, the uk health food manufacturers association is non-profit. it represents 120 companies and suppliers; it has a very strong safety record and it knows that safety levels will be set well below what is regarded as safe in the uk in cases where there is no health risk. they know that only 22 additives will be allowed, meaning that potassium sorbate – a vital ingredient for vitamin d drops as recommended by our own department of health for children under the age of 36 months – will be banned. gbp 100 million of sales are at risk. in the uk, over 700 health food stores will be at risk, with 4 000 jobs – all in the sme sector. across the eu, over eur 8 billion will be at risk: 5 000 companies and 75 000 jobs. and this report is supposed to be about more competitiveness, sustainability and an inclusive europe. what is inclusive about shutting out the smes so that, once again, it is the big companies that pick up the trade and leave the unemployed from the smes to flounder and do what they can?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, both the reports under consideration are driven by one common motive: to accelerate the pace of european integration and enhance the role of the european union as a state-like global actor. actually we do not need such long reports. i think there are some 44 pages in all between the two reports. both could be reduced to 12 words: just let the european union run our armed forces and defence industries. you only have to say these words to realise how ridiculous they are. it is rather like having the european union run our economies. however, hidden amongst all the euro-federalist stuff, there are one or two quite sensible statements. for example, in michael gahler’s report, i agree that our companies must take care when transferring sensitive technologies to third parties. i also agree about the need to invest more in r&d, the need for improved certification, the need to recognise the very specific nature of defence markets, and on the importance of the nato defence planning process. the trouble is that the premise of both papers is a non-existent european state peopled by people that regard themselves as european citizens. naturally, therefore, strategic autonomy means the autonomy of the european union. but for me, i have to say that it means something rather different. by the way, there are plenty of examples of successful collaborative defence projects, but none of these have involved – or indeed need to involve – the european union, and the fewer the partners, the more efficient the collaboration. i commend the paper produced by our think tank, new direction, and written by professor keith hartley. it is called ‘white elephants’ and tells you all you need to know about collaborative defence projects. the eu defence council in december is seen as the key opportunity to take forward european defence. i very much hope you will all be disappointed. if i may say, when the nato secretary-general spoke in the foreign affairs council earlier this year, he came as close as he could in describing the reality of csdp without offending his member governments or his largely federalist audience. talking about nato and the european union he said, ‘on operations we manage to get along. on capabilities we must ensure complementarity, not parallel activities and duplication. on consultation the situation is absurd. if the eu contribution is centred on generating new capabilities, then that could be valuable. if it only concerns new bureaucracies or new institutions, then it is just hot air’. i am afraid that csdp is just hot air, but hot air can be dangerous. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – madam president, i am most grateful for this. i was present at the meeting with mr anders rasmussen. he was critical of csdp and the european defence policy; you are quite correct. but he was also very self-critical of the circumstances that nato now finds itself in, and i have to say, geoffrey, that i find your assumption that nato is the answer to all our woes complacent to a degree that could be dangerous.
blue-card answer. – the organisation has the same number of staff in its headquarters as the european parliament, but that is another matter. i do not think for a moment, andrew, that nato is the answer to all of our problems. nato in any case needs to be revitalised and we are all not spending enough money on defence, and often it is not spent wisely. i would agree with that. but equally i do not agree that the european union creating duplicative structures is the answer to our problems. we all know why csdp was set up. it was because france was not happy with the american presence in europe and has always had the ambition to create a separate structure. i have always said that now that france is fully integrated in the military structure of nato, the need for csdp is totally redundant. however it is political matter and it is a political objective. i quite agree that nato needs reform as well and revitalisation, but the last thing we want is for nato to wither away in any way. after all, it has the enormous advantage of binding the united states to the security of europe and discussing crises with all of the key players including, by the way, most of the member states of the european union. that is why it is even more ridiculous that we have csdp. it is the same countries talking to one another in the same city. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am in favour of intergovernmental treaties. it is almost a swearword in this house, but i am very much in favour of intergovernmentalism. of course, another great merit of the nato alliance is that it is intergovernmental, so i am enthusiastic about that. collaborative defence projects are intergovernmental, and you will find that there are four or five countries in europe which are the main defence-industry providers and which have very good collaborative defence arrangements – intergovernmentally.
madam president, my advice to the prime ministers in the presidency is threefold: firstly, stop waiting for the germans; secondly, do not worry about the brits; and thirdly, get on with building a cluster of politically willing and militarily capable states to draft a common template for their own national security and defence reviews. such a common and simultaneous exercise in defence planning is rational and it will increase the impact and visibility of the common security and defence policy. it will also save taxpayers’ money and, if you are interested, article 46 of the treaty suffices.
madam president, as a euro-realist, of course i accept the reality of the csdp and the need to engage with it, although many in my own national political party are deeply hostile to the very concept. in my view, the csdp must always remain subject to unanimity in the council. i believe that constructive engagement is the way forward, partly because – as was pointed out in the debate – france insists on it as one of only two european major military powers and as a condition of rejoining nato and its command and control structures. one of my major areas of concern is the risk of duplication of effort in a climate of limited resources in the defence-spending sector, where concepts like nato, smart defence and the csdp’s pooling and sharing are being developed – rightly – to save on costs to national budgets. it is also important to avoid decoupling of the european union’s defence efforts from those of the usa and canada, with whom we are negotiating free trade agreements at the moment, and the ttip hopefully in the future. nevertheless, i am convinced that eunavfor atalanta has been a success story – and i drafted a report on this in the horn of africa for the parliament last year – in fighting piracy. the eu training missions in uganda and mali have also been very helpful in the combat against jihadi terrorism, but the jury regrettably is still out on certain civilian missions like eulex in kosovo. however, you can rest assured that we in the ecr will continue to take our security role with national parliaments and scrutiny over the csdp very seriously in future.
madam president, this report marks another step on the way to the european union having its own armed forces. the treaty on european union of 1992 laid down the foundations for a common security and defence policy leading to a common defence. common defence means only one thing: common armed forces, a european army. that goal is being steadily pursued by means of common procurement procedures, common communications systems and common command and control structures. the british armed forces are being deliberately run down so that their resulting weaknesses can be used as an excuse for eventually merging them into a common eu army. the british army now has fewer soldiers than the german army had after the versailles treaty. meanwhile, they are stretched to breaking point and expected to perform miracles. if britain’s service men and women understand the writing on the wall, then they will vote en masse for the united kingdom independence party. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not think that this actually matters, because ever since i first sat in this chamber in 2004 – and i spent the first four or five years on the subcommittee on security and defence – it has been obvious that this is the goal that is being pursued. how many other constitutions have been overridden and changed in order to accommodate eu integration? our own constitution in england is overridden and set aside by what is happening in the european union, so i do not think they are going to worry about a few other smaller countries’ constitutions when pursuing their ultimate goal.
mr president, the social economy has continued to grow, even as the rest of our economy falters. there are 70 000 social enterprises and a million employees in my own country, britain, alone. in my constituency there are enterprises like future business in cambridge, which was built with european funds, big barns, which supports local food producers in bedfordshire, and destiny, which provides mentoring to disadvantaged people in colchester. however, i would i ask the commissioner when implementing this programme to safeguard cooperatives and mutuals, which have led in what it means to be a social business, and funding to micro enterprises. for all the promises, bank lending to small businesses in britain has still fallen by gbp 600 million this year. i also ask the commissioner to safeguard support for disabled people’s inclusion in former progress funding through organisations which are controlled by disabled people themselves. commissioner, the acronym for this programme is pronounced in english the same as the word ‘easy’, but we both know that the objective of social change we have set ourselves is anything but easy. i wish this programme success.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to start, as is traditional, by thanking the rapporteur. usually this is a bit of a motion one goes through, but in this particular case i would like to make the point that it is very genuinely felt as she did a tremendous job in defending the proposal in a difficult time, with uncertainty surrounding the mff. it will come as a surprise to people that i support an increase in the budget here. my group is keen on budget discipline. however, what we are also keen on is putting the budget where it works best, and this particular area is one where we have proven, again and again since 1992, that the life programme works. it is money well spent and it has ongoing benefits for many years hence for the environment. so i do welcome this proposal. it is not a huge budget, but it is very beneficial and it fills an important niche, which is funding the environmental and climate projects that are not eligible for funding anywhere else. it is important that we hold that window open. the first reading agreement, as i said, was the result of protracted negotiations, and i am pleased with the outcome. but there are a couple of things i want to mention. i am pleased with the measures on fixed national allocations, because i actually believe that having those gives applicants certainty that they are going to be listened to and that the money will be available. in the past, if we had not had that, i know many possible applicants who would have simply been turned away. but knowing that the fixed national allocation is available gives them some certainty. of course, as a british member i had some real issues around overseas countries and territories. these regions are rich in biodiversity but they often struggle to secure funding from international programmes because there is an assumption that they will be funded by the eu. so i welcome the hard-fought-for commitment from the commission in its statement, which i look forward to seeing in the minutes, and i hope that this will lead to some really meaningful projects in those overseas territories.
mr president, yesterday in this chamber i had a sharp exchange with our colleague mr claude turmes. he believes that the recent flood tragedy in sardinia was caused by climate change and that those of us who argue against manmade climate change are, therefore, somehow responsible. i told him that the disaster was caused by the weather. it seems that we were both wrong. immediately after our exchange, i was approached by our italian colleague, ms susy de martini, who has followed the issue closely and has met the mayor of olbia, mr giovanelli. he does not believe that the flood was caused by global warming: he blames the eu’s stability and growth pact, which has denied sardinia the funding it needs to manage its water courses. the flood in sardinia was caused not by global warming, but by a failure to dredge the river. ms de martini is so concerned about this problem she has tabled a written question to italian commissioner antonio tajani. the house and mr turmes may like to note that natural disasters can have much more mundane and down to earth causes than global warming.
mr president, i am minded to quote the great american philosopher murray rothbard here, that the state is an institution of theft writ large. tax is just about a system where politicians and bureaucrats steal money from their citizens, to squander in the most disgraceful manner. this place is no exception. fascinatingly – and i really do not know how they manage to keep a straight face when they are talking about tax evasion – the whole commission and the commission bureaucracy avoid their taxes. they do not pay taxes like citizens pay taxes. they have all sorts of special deals – composite tax rates, high tax thresholds, non-contributory pension schemes. they are the biggest tax avoiders in europe and here they sit pontificating. well, i would point out to the commission that the message is getting home to the people of the european union. you are going to find that eurosceptics are coming back in june in ever greater numbers. and i can tell you worse: as the people get your number, it will not be long before they storm this chamber and they hang you, and they will be right.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this report represents a broken promise. the commission assured us that they would get errors under control. instead, they are on the rise again: up from 3.9% in 2011 to 4.8% in 2012. that is over eur 6 billion of taxpayers’ money that cannot be properly accounted for. like the vast majority of the public i am disgusted that the commission is paying lip service to getting their finances in order. however, what really bothers my patience in this house is the ‘business as usual’ mentality, where irregularities are tolerated despite the huge amounts of money involved. the commission just gets a polite slap on the wrist. in any private enterprise, if almost 5% of the budget was in error, heads would roll and the shareholders would quite rightly demand change at the top. instead, this parliament, which blames the member states for irregularities, is happy to ask for a bigger eu budget, to give to those same member states. what a contradiction!
mr president, like other colleagues, i thank the court for its annual report. i also want to thank it for making the effort, in its pr, of stating that the eu accounts were signed off. of course, much of the press did not take any notice of that or bother to try and distinguish between errors and fraud. i think it is fair to point out, as other colleagues have done, that about 80% of eu funds are spent by member states and therefore that they need to bear some responsibility. this is borne out when you look at the types of error which occur: 29% of errors are due to public procurement failures; 22% of errors are due to ineligible projects; and 21% of errors are due to ineligible cost claims. it is also fair to point out that only a few member states are responsible for most of these errors, and the uk is not exempt here. currently, european structural funds payments in the uk are suspended, so colleagues in the uk should perhaps point the finger at our own systems and our own government. however, more does need to be done at european level, especially as the error rates are still increasing. i particularly want to know the reasons for the errors, the reason for the increase in errors in each directorate-general, and of course what we are going to do about it in the future. what solutions can be put in place? for example, we need to do more work with problem member states: we need to ensure that proper control systems are in place in all those member states and we need to ensure that simplification measures, which we all talk about and support, are used and do indeed reduce errors in the future. these are all important issues for us in parliament and they all need to be addressed. i am sure that, in the coming weeks and months, when we have meetings with the commissioners, the committee on budgetary control will want to press these issues. we want to ensure that every single euro spent by the european union is spent properly and spent on the right things: the things which create jobs and growth right across the union.
mr president, as was the case with framework programme 7, horizon 2020 brings together a strong package aimed at supporting research and development across the eu, particularly for research projects considered to contribute to scientific excellence. it is to be welcomed that it will be easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to access funding from this source, thus increasing the chance of supporting projects with the potential not only to provide valuable research and science but also to lead to job creation and wider benefits. the uk has been a net beneficiary of the former fp7 programme, and i very much hope that this will continue to be the case during the lifetime of horizon 2020. london, my constituency, is home to many leading internationally known universities and it is these institutions which need this continued successful funding. it is vital that they should be able to access this and to have links with research partners throughout the continent. horizon 2020 will make sure that these factors remain in place. i am very pleased that i and my group were able to support the programme here in parliament.
in writing. − i supported this report on horizon 2020 which will be so important to universities and businesses in wales. it has three main priorities: generating excellent science, creating leadership in industrial technologies and tackling societal challenge. it looks not only at research but also at innovation, which will be crucial in building the welsh economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the horizon 2020 programme, which has the potential to bring hundreds of millions of pounds in research and innovation funding to scotland. investing in r&d is a liberal democrat priority, and i am glad to see that this new programme will be the world’s largest r&d funding programme and that the proportion of funding in the eu’s budget which is dedicated to r&d will increase.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that we have regulation establishing a community system for the registration of carriers of radioactive materials. we need to replace the current national reporting and authorisation procedures with a harmonised registration system to simplify and reduce administrative burden and ensure high levels of protection from radiation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the horizon 2020 reports because i believe in further eu policy for funding research and innovation.
in writing. − i am really excited to see horizon 2020 rolled out next year. this programme is one of the areas of the eu budget where the added value is clear. with its strong focus on supporting scientific excellence and innovative industries, as well as its welcome inclusion of an ‘sme instrument’, i am confident that horizon 2020 will provide real opportunities for our researchers back home and lead the push for growth and job creation via innovation in our member states.
mr president, i voted against this report on the rules for participation in horizon 2020, determining how the funding will operate. it is wrong that the new cost-reimbursement rules mean that big private companies will now receive the same amount of co-financing as small and medium-sized enterprises, non-profit public bodies and higher-education establishments. given that funding for university and public research centres is a lifeline at a time of economic crisis, it is unfair that large companies will now receive a larger slice of the funding. furthermore, i would have preferred to see a much more explicit mention of the new eu guidelines for preventing funding going to israeli companies with activities in the occupied territories of palestine. these guidelines must be strictly implemented against those entities which are violating international law.
in writing. − the rules on who gets horizon 2020 funding must be absolutely clear and in line with eu law. this does not include funding for israeli entities operating in occupied palestinian territories. as specific reference to this is not included in the guidelines i voted against this proposal. we have to ensure legal certainty for the commission in the implementation of the guidelines and i have to reassure my constituents that the guidelines are correct.
in writing. − simplification had to be at the heart of this new single set of rules for horizon 2020. instead of placing complicated application processes and heavy administrative burdens in the way of our individual researchers and our small businesses, as we have done with previous eu research programmes, we needed to make it easier for a wide range of stakeholders to take part in horizon 2020. i welcome the steps this regulation takes to put in place a more flexible framework for eu research funding going forwards and i do hope that it will mean that more of my constituents in wales will feel able to apply in 2014.
in writing. − many changes have been proposed by the commission as part of the horizon 2020 package, including a revision of the european institute of technology. this will bring together innovation and technology and new business models. it will enable more involvement of small businesses and will make links with regional centres of excellence. there will be huge potential to make links with centres in wales, including the new science park and universities. for this reason i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − i support the goals of the european institute of innovation and technology; however, i do have some concerns relating to the institutions’ budget under the next mff. in such difficult economic times i do believe that all significant eu budgetary increases must be carefully justified.
in writing. − many changes have been proposed by the commission as part of the horizon 2020 package, including a revision of the european institute of technology. this will bring together innovation and technology and new business models. it will enable more involvement of small businesses and will make links with regional centres of excellence. there will be huge potential to make links with centres in wales, including the new science park and universities. for this reason i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − whilst i am supportive of the european institute of innovation and technology’s aims, i believe that as we try to strive for reduced, and smarter, eu spending, any decision to increase budgets (such as the one made in this case) needs to be evidence-based and clearly justifiable.
mr president, in concluding the creutzmann report, the eu has been able to provide an improved programme to replace the previous competiveness and innovation framework. these reformist proposals currently before us now seek to the give the financial support that is vital to so many smes, both in my country and in the rest of europe. i am also pleased that, as part of the process, the ecr – my group – has been able to enforce its message of encouraging a reduction in bureaucracy and bringing results to our wider campaign to cut burdensome and unnecessary red tape. indeed, this aim will provide one of the five fundamental indicators for the achievement of the programme’s objectives. furthermore, the inclusion of a 5% ceiling for management expenditure will ensure that the money reaches the businesses that really need it, rather than funding unnecessary and bloated bureaucracy. smes contribute hugely to the economy of london, the constituency that i represent, providing millions of jobs. it is with this in mind that i was very welcoming of today’s positive vote and endorsement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal which addresses the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. as wales has a large number of smes which need support to compete on a national and international level, i welcomed these proposals.
in writing. − the global financial crisis has hit small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) across europe hard. the impact of research projects or development of technologies not pursued due to a lack of funding is difficult to quantify. major developments in research and innovation are usually the result of risks taken by smes, thus i believe it is imperative that we fully support the competitiveness of these enterprises in the 2014-2020 period as we begin our long road to recovery. the approval of the competitiveness of enterprises and smes (cosme) programme focuses on growing smes, with better access to markets and additional funding through risk-capital or loan guarantees. with regard to my own constituency, i believe the simplification of cosme has the potential to attract the participation of more smes, with local smes benefiting from the ‘fast track to innovation’ pilot which aims to speed up the time from idea to market. in northern ireland, stimulating private sector investment and promoting research and innovation are just a few of the challenges facing smes. i hope approval of the cosme programme will make these challenges more surmountable in the years ahead.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises because i want improved access to finance and markets for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − i fully support the introduction of this programme to support the competitiveness of our smes. cosme has the potential to assist our smes in areas in which they often face the biggest uphill struggles, such as gaining access to finance or venturing into overseas markets. one of the things that conservatives in the european parliament have been calling on the european commission to do to help smes is to remove the red-tape that eu legislation places on them. therefore i am delighted to see the drive to reduce burdens on smes included as one of the five indicators for the achievement of this programme’s objectives.
in writing. − in 2012 there were 192 825 small to medium-sized businesses in wales. to support these businesses, i have voted in favour of the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes. this will facilitate access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises, create an environment favourable to business creation and growth, encourage a more entrepreneurial culture in europe, increase the sustainable competitiveness of eu companies and help small businesses operate outside their home countries and improve their access to markets. i hope that this programme will have a real impact in wales, as 59% of business owners in wales who have applied for finance have encountered some form of difficulty, and 57% of sme owners in wales currently hope to expand their markets abroad.
in writing. − this establishes the specific objectives of horizon 2020 and the procedure to be followed by the commission. it also details how the annual work programmes will be adopted. this will give valuable information to all those in wales who have an interest in horizon 2020 and who will be preparing for that. the commission and the member states decide the work programme but we have to ensure that the welsh government has an influence on those decisions.
in writing. − as a successor to the seventh framework programme (fp7), the horizon 2020 programme looks set to build upon the successes of european research and innovation by creating a simpler and easier to access eu funding programme for 2014-2020. the three priorities of horizon 2020 are to promote excellence in academic-based science, support industrial companies in innovative areas, and to improve research in areas of societal challenge, such as health, food and security. representing one of the few areas where the uk gets more money than it puts in, i expect horizon 2020 to constitute a vital source of income for world-leading universities such as queen’s university belfast and the university of ulster. newly simplified rules will result in increased diversity of research, opportunities for business and also a boost to the local economy. moreover, widening the participation to regions with weaker structural research conditions looks set to benefit northern ireland, increasing the standard of less developed research sectors. our ability to tackle problems of the present and future, such as disease, energy inefficiencies and infrastructure, relies on flourishing research and innovation. with horizon 2020, i believe we have created an environment where such challenges are more likely to be met.
in writing. − i support this regulation and its provisions for the establishment of the european research council (erc). the frontier research that the erc supports is hugely important and uk universities have already demonstrated huge success in engaging with its programmes.
in writing. − i welcome the revision of the way official eu statistics are collated and presented and so i voted in favour. i would also like to see the eurostat website improved to make it more accessible and user-friendly. despite the fact that it left wales off the map of europe a few years ago, eurostat fulfils an extremely important function.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in recent surveys it has been shown the european citizens distrust economic statistics. it is vitally important that information conveyed to the public is not only accurate and transparent, but also trusted. therefore i voted in favour of this report because it aims to rebuild public confidence and improve quality of statistics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amending legislation on european statistics because i want to improve statistical quality and transparency.
in writing. − this proposal outlines means to address the lack of public confidence in statistical data. it proposes a number of measures to strengthen the quality and independence of statistics.
in writing. − the legislation brings together three instruments dealing with social and employment matters. it will improve the way in which they operate and therefore improve the situation for my constituents in wales so i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to help the terrible situation of youth and long-term unemployment in the european union. this was a very good report, led by a socialist and democrat rapporteur. the report was substantially amended to make the three sub-programmes more consistent and improve financial transparency by detailing how funds should be spent within them, making the fund work more efficiently.
in writing. − this new funding instrument will bring together, within a single framework, three existing eu programmes which support european union policies in the field of employment and social affairs. i hope that this programme will prove to be an effective tool in addressing social and employment challenges.
in writing. − the european commission has put forward a proposal to develop a new instrument, the programme for social change and innovation, which will support employment and social policies throughout the eu. i am in favour of this proposal, as i believe that it will help tackle key eu issues, such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the psci will also integrate the programme for employment and social solidarity, the european employment services and the european progress micro-finance facility. i believe that this will increase the effectiveness of these instruments and improve policy cohesion throughout the board. i hope that the programme for social change and innovation will ensure that employment and social policies will make an even greater contribution to europe 2020.
in writing. − i supported this important report on the life programme. it finances environment and climate projects in wales and across the eu. in this new proposal, operating grants for environmental ngos are also covered. i am concerned that all projects will be selected on an eu level with no member state earmarking and i hope the welsh government will work closely with the commission on this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is part of the key budget of the eu that is dedicated to the environment. it allocates funds to environmental projects and climate programmes, which are both key parts of our strategy to fight climate change and reduce the damage we do to the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the programme for the environment and climate action as this would not only bring about the implementation of major eu environmental legislation but would also secure more generous co-financing rates, which i feel is important.
in writing. − the struggle to meet the environmental challenges of the future is one that is not going to go away and we will have to continue to try to address these challenges. therefore it is right that, amongst the eu’s funding programmes for 2014-2020, there is a dedicated financial instrument for the environment. i can support the overall agreement that has been reached on this life programme and i voted in favour of its adoption here today.
in writing. − i was pleased to see that the final agreement for the establishment of a programme for the environment and climate action has included an allowance for the vat of staff costs to be eligible for funding. i am aware that this was an important issue for local authorities in the uk. i hope that the introduction of ‘integrated projects’ which converge various eu, national and private funds in support of major eu environmental legislation will improve key areas such as water, waste, air quality and nature protection. the more generous co-financing rates for these projects will also aid the protection of the environment.
in writing. − i supported this legislation to strengthening tax administrations under the fiscalis 2020 programme. my constituents in wales are only too aware of the need for a fair and efficient tax regime. fiscalis will ensure that authorities work together to share action, training and it systems so information can be exchanged more easily. i hope this will help close loopholes and prevent tax avoidance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it has constant reference to the need to fight tax evasion, tax fraud and aggressive tax avoidance, which is a key priority for the labour party in europe. it is part of a programme that aims to support the cooperation between national tax authorities to increase efficiency in working methods and avoid inconsistencies which could hinder the internal market. the objectives of the programme are to protect the financial interests of the eu and the member states and to improve the tax capacities of tax authorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the action programme for customs and taxation in the eu for 2014-2020 because i wish to improve the tax capabilities of tax authorities by fighting tax evasion, tax fraud and aggressive tax avoidance.
in writing. − i voted to support this fiscalis programme which aims to improve cooperation between member state tax authorities, in order to ensure better application of tax laws and to further the fight against tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. − improving the customs authorities is another area in which the eu can facilitate more efficiency by joint action. this programme covers it, best practice exchanges, training of officials and better co-operation with third countries and international organisations. this is important for wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to facilitate and enhance cooperation between customs authorities within the eu. we need greater controls to fight the new challenges that are constantly facing national customs authorities and working effectively, and proportionally, together is a key part of this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the action programme for customs because this programme will strengthen the internal market through an efficient and effective customs union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which i hope will strengthen cooperation between member state authorities within the customs union. this proposal also outlines a number of other measures to advance the operation of customs procedures and customs authorities.
in writing. − this is an amendment for an existing directive to adapt it to the new policies on insurance and reinsurance. in common with people throughout the eu, my constituents in wales want to be assured that they are protected by legislation on these matters. i voted in favour for that reason.
in writing. − i voted in favour of extending the deadline for application of the solvency ii rules on insurance, pending the outcome of the negotiations on the omnibus 2 package. the adoption of this revision today means that the new deadline for implementation will be set to 1 january 2016, more than three years later than was originally intended.
mr president, although the 12 years of the doha trade talks have been marked by the repeated collapse of negotiations and allegations of bad faith, the development agenda is still the best current hope we have in promoting multilateral free and fair trade across the world and in reducing the many non-tariff barriers placed in its path. we in the eu, the world’s most successful trading bloc, know how the abolition of tariffs and quotas can increase prosperity for all, but we also know that this cannot be achieved without extremely careful deliberation and clearly targeted reforms, which take into account the needs of all countries, and not simply the richest. for these reasons i fully endorse the necessity of integrating the principle of special and differential treatment throughout the process and increasing its precision and efficiency, and reiterating support for the everything but arms initiative. it is in the interests of all of us here today that we work harder to reform the structures of the wto and our engagement with it within the european union, to make this all a reality to bring prosperity to all.
in writing. − together with my fellow meps in the green/efa group i voted against this report for a number of reasons. the main reason is that i do not believe that it goes far enough in terms of limiting corporate power and closing the balance between rich and poor. i have worked with ngos and churches in wales for many years on the development agenda and in working for better trade rules that will benefit the poorest communities. it is disappointing when opportunities to make a difference are missed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which gives a mandate to the mep ad-hoc delegation which will represent the european parliament at the ninth ministerial conference of the world trade organisation.
in writing. − reigniting the entrepreneurial spirit is something we must do in wales and so i was pleased to support this report which outlines ways in which the eu can help do that.
in writing. − i am supportive of this resolution’s goal to stimulate entrepreneurship, via calls for simplified business start-up procedures and by improving access to finance. i particularly welcome its call for the commission to follow up on the ‘top ten’ consultation on burdensome eu legislation; removing red tape is something conservative colleagues and i have supported in the parliament for a long time. however i do have reservations about elements of this resolution which look to address issues relating to taxation, which are a matter of member state competence.
in writing. − today i have welcomed a motion for resolution on the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan. i am happy to see that the document invites the eu commission to make the promotion of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial education a key theme. i believe that the special focus upon both the development of an entrepreneurial culture and on financing proposals for businesses are important for the growth of the european economy. this motion is a positive step towards a recognition that in europe there are many different ways of doing business, which all deserve equal attention from policy makers. i hope that this resolution leads the way towards tailored help for businesses in the eu, and a step away from a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach in european business policy design.
in writing. − i voted against the koppa report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the union parliament on the common foreign and security policy). the report wants greater harmonisation of eu defence policy, pooling of member states’ budgets to fund military operations – including expanded common costs of eu battlegroups – and permanent structured cooperation. my party has consistently argued for improved eu coordination with nato rather than the establishment of new eu strategies and expensive institutions within the csdp framework. i am very opposed to the eu attempting to expand its competences into the vital area of national defence.
in writing. − i voted against this report which has been prepared in advance of the european council on defence in december. i fear that the emphasis will be on strengthening the defence and arms industry and i am opposed to that. i believe that the eu could establish a real role in the world with a civilian peace corps, concentrating on defusing tension and conflict prevention. i am opposed to the development of european drones. i have actively opposed the use of our airspace for testing drones in wales.
in writing. − this remains a time of economic difficulty and therefore i cannot support duplicative policy exercises put forward in this report which would cause unnecessary increases in eu costs. rather than pursuing its own new strategies and institutions with the framework of the csdp, i would like to see the eu focus its attention on strengthening its coordination with nato.
in writing. − i voted against the gahler report on the european defence technological and industrial base. while hm government has supported broad cooperation between member states in these areas, i am vehemently opposed to the eu attempting to increase its competence into areas which have until now remained the exclusive right of individual countries.
in writing. − i voted against this report which has been prepared in advance of the european council on defence in december. i fear that the emphasis will be on strengthening the defence and arms industry and i am opposed to that. i believe that the eu could establish a real role in the world with a civilian peace corps, concentrating on defusing tension and conflict prevention. i am opposed to the development of european drones. i have actively opposed the use of our airspace for testing drones in wales.
in writing. − whilst broad cooperation between member states in a defence technological and industrial base can be supported, i have wider concerns about eu competence creeping into areas which have until now remained the exclusive right of the member states. therefore i could not support this report today.
in writing. − i voted against the oral question to the commission – social dimension of emu because it is an attempt to interfere in an area in which the eu has no competence, healthcare, homelessness, work index, etc. these are all within the competence of the member states and the uk has no intention of handing them over to brussels. in addition the oral question refers to a european unemployment benefit scheme, something much desired by european federalists that will never happen.
in writing. − i abstained on this report because it did not give enough consideration to social policy, despite its heading. what my constituents in wales expect is an eu that aims towards full employment and a good standard of living for all its citizens. to achieve that there has to be more social progress that was outlined here.
in writing. − i am concerned by this resolution’s call for the european union to score or make comparisons between member states on areas in which they do not have competence. this is something that i cannot support and therefore i voted against this resolution.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the enhancement of the social dimension of the emu. i believe that the importance of better monitoring of the social and labour market within the emu should be acknowledged. specifically, i believe that employment and social indicators should be used as part of the ‘european semester’ process for economic policy coordination. i also would like to see improvement of the coordination of employment and social policies, whilst maintaining respect for national competences and enhancing solidarity and action on employment and labour mobility.
author. − mr president, for the past five years bangladesh has enjoyed a period of relative stability, under a democratically elected government, practically unprecedented in its 42-year history. the foundation of this stability was the last general election, which i witnessed as this parliament’s election observation leader, and it went very well. in 2008, the secular awami league decisively defeated the bangladesh nationalist party (bnp) and its islamist jamaat allies. in many ways bangladesh has shown since then how a majority muslim country can thrive on secular governance. the war crimes tribunal, albeit controversial, has held extremists to account for their crimes. i welcome that, for in the 1971 war of independence atrocities were clearly committed on an industrial scale. the tribunal has also helped the country undergo closure on historical wounds. in january 2014, bangladeshis go to the polls again and i call on all parties, particularly the bnp, to participate in this election. it is their choice, not ours, but i hope that bangladesh chooses a future based on stability, human rights, justice and equality … (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, the trouble is that we all think we have been given two minutes. the authors should all have two minutes speaking time, and now we suddenly find that we have only got one minute. i think the person speaking on behalf of the s&d thought so as well. that is what i am trying to tell you. i think the misunderstanding is that some of us have been told that we have got two minutes.
author. − mr president, first of all i would like to stress that the liberals and democrats here pushed for the urgency resolution to be a reaction to the serious violation of human rights that we are witnessing and, in particular, for the trials of the 2009 mutiny, especially the death sentences handed down to 152 defendants. unfortunately, other political groups felt the need to focus on the elections, and the ecr group does not even seem to believe that the death penalties are worth condemning. of course, the upcoming elections in bangladesh are a very important concern and, in this respect, i call for the formation of a neutral and impartial transitional government that has the confidence of all political parties and the international community: a crucial element to free and fair elections. but of utmost concern to me, and of real urgency, is the situation in bangladesh, where 152 death sentences have been delivered.
author. − mr president, as others have said, the 2008 elections in bangladesh saw real progress. the concern many of us have here is that the next election should not go back on what was a very positive election, where all parties could actually accept the results. there are issues about the interim arrangements. on our last delegation visit there – i chair that delegation – we made it very clear that we felt that interim measures had to be put in place well in advance and agreed well in advance, and of course that has not happened. this is part of the problem that we are now seeing, with parties that did not originally like the caretaker government now wanting it, and those that did like it originally now having overseen its removal from the constitution. we are talking about the confidence of all parties in an interim measure. the problem, of course, is that there is no confidence between the leaders of the two main parties. this is why the people of bangladesh find themselves in a difficult position. we would all agree that we want to see as wide a choice as possible in those next elections. that is what the people of bangladesh want. that is what they deserve. there is a vibrant civil society in bangladesh. we are really concerned at the moment that what we are seeing is a bit of a clampdown on some of those who dare to criticise some of the things happening there. we would call, therefore, for those who are currently being charged to be released and to be allowed back into civil society.
author. − mr president, there has been controversy over the treatment of migrant workers in qatar in recent months, triggered by revelations about the poor working conditions of those helping to construct the stadiums for the 2022 world cup. it is right that these allegations should be treated seriously by the international community and that appeals for improved conditions should be made to the qatari government. certainly my group, the ecr, condemns the unlawful deaths of any migrant worker and sends condolences to the bereaved families. i therefore welcome the moves by the authorities to investigate these serious allegations, to increase the number of labour inspectors and to blacklist companies responsible for any such abuses. it is also heartening that the qatar 2022 supreme committee has committed itself to ethical recruitment and treatment of migrant workers involved in the world cup preparations. nevertheless, i find it regrettable that the joint ep resolution condemns the qatari government to the extent it does, and makes demands that are both too proscriptive and highly unlikely to be met by any gulf state. it is incredibly difficult to regulate a labour market which is 90% composed of migrant workers. we must work with the qataris constructively rather than censoriously. lastly, as a friend of the gulf cooperation council states, i am increasingly concerned over credible reports that qatar and saudi arabia have been supplying arms and funds to hard-line groups, initially in libya with severe consequences in the sahel region and, more recently, arming jihadi rebels, such as al nusra and isil, in the syrian conflict. these groups are allegedly committing terrible atrocities and war crimes against christians and other alawite civilian minorities, as well as against prisoners of war.
mr president, this important resolution concerns not only human rights organisations, but also politicians, governments and millions of football fans across the world. there are hundreds of thousands of migrant workers in qatar, most of them from south asia, and many of them from bangladesh. the world cup stadia and other construction sites have shone a light on what amnesty international has called ‘the widespread and routine abuse of migrant workers’. the qatari government and the football authorities must take notice. the world will not stand idly by while people work – and even die – as slaves to build a venue for one of our greatest sporting competitions. this resolution urges the qatari government to immediately apply the ilo convention concerning forced labour. we will not stand for the use of forced labour. we must all work together to help the qatari government achieve international labour and human rights standards and we should closely monitor what is being done to put things right. firstly we need an overhaul of the kafala visa sponsorship system. passports and wages should not be withheld and no one should be forced to stay in a country against their will.
author. − mr president, the arbitrary detention of eu citizens elód tóásó and mario tadic in bolivia represents a serious breach of human rights and the rule of law. since the return of a civilian democratic government in bolivia in 1982, much has been done to attempt to re-establish properly functioning state institutions. but cases like this highlight the very real problems that still remain. the dysfunctional judicial system, for instance, still presents many challenges, particularly regarding the events surrounding the dictatorship period prior to 1982, and the length of time it takes to process cases is a serious problem. elód tóásó and mario tadic have been in prison since april 2009 without trial and, for eight months, without any formal or informal charges brought in a court. the events surrounding their arrest are still unclear and it is troubling that no investigation review has been commissioned into the incident, during which the three other people lost their lives. i am pleased that we have been able to highlight their cases in parliament today and i hope that we will soon see justice being done by means of a fair and free independent trial with diplomatic missions in la paz observing the process.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, ukip have forced a vote on the second reading by virtue of tabling the only amendment. we are concerned at the intimidation of gibraltarians by the spanish government and wish to remind all parties that gibraltar never opted into the common fisheries policy, making it permanently free from eu interference. leave gibraltar alone is the polite title of our amendment. at first reading we were astonished to witness the conservatives voting against the repatriation of our uk fishing waters when given this golden opportunity. they have been banging on about repatriation of fishing waters for years; so what is going on here? at the other end of the mediterranean we have greece – and i am not insulting anybody, i am only looking at the fact that greece is due to take over the rotating presidency next month. in a recent study on the profitability of the eu fishing fleet all member states were invited to submit data. some submitted more than others, but greece submitted nothing whatsoever, despite the fact that the greek commissioner actually holds the fisheries portfolio. the study did receive enough data, however, to declare that slovenia, germany, ireland and finland are running their fisheries at a net loss despite the subsidies received. greece may or may not be in a similar position; without the data we just do not know. if we add the acknowledged environmental damage created by the overzealous search for fish we have to ask: what is the point of the cfp?
mr president, the long-term prospects for british fishermen depend on withdrawal from the eu, but of course fishermen want solutions to current and immediate problems. we are told that the discard policy involving fish that cannot survive will of course be discontinued, but the survivability rate is said to be higher with some species. there must be research-led distinctions between treatment of different species. avoidance of by-catch waste is a welcome theme of the stevenson report, with adult commercial fish to be allowed onto the open market and the remaining by-catch being used for some other commercial purpose: fish meal, pet food, etc. in the end, by-catches must be reduced, possibly with gear that distinguishes between different sizes for selective catch and release, such as the pot-trap developed by my constituent mr jeff stockdale in 2009. information to consumers is always to be welcomed but the original requirements for gear type, fish stock and flag state might have been excessively costly. that the supply of this information will be voluntary is to be welcomed.
mr president, ten years ago or so in this place i voted against the then package of cfp so-called reform, and here we are, ten more years of over-centralised failure later. i voted against then because it did not include steps towards zonal management. today we are at least looking at a foundation, as ms rodust called it, for the future. now member states at least have an opportunity to build on the text that is in this reform package, to determinedly push for more decision-making to be made on a regional basis. i hope that they will, and i hope that the commission will let it go through. and that for me should include the detailed decision-making about discard elimination, a very complex problem partly caused by cfp regulation. we need time to adjust and to have those regulations that are causing discards changed. we need time to develop even more selectivity to avoid unwanted catches in the first place.
mr president, we all want healthy fish stocks, a prosperous fishing industry and a healthy marine environment, and i believe this reform will go some way towards achieving that. the new regionalised approach to decision-making is particularly welcome. it is clear that a brussels-centred one-size-fits-all approach was not working, and it is imperative that we put fishermen at the core of developing technical and conservation measures in order to secure a sustainable fishing industry. nevertheless, there are still major questions looming over this reform, particularly in regard to the ban on discarding of fish. realistically, catch quotas have to be effectively imposed by member states. the devil is in the detail, as we have seen through the reform of the cap. we must ensure that both the delegated and implementing acts implement effectively the spirit of the political agreement. i thank both rapporteurs for their work and i wish the commissioner well next week in brussels when all the fishermen arrive to see what their fate is for 2014.
mr president, it has taken us two and a half years to get here, but it was worth the wait. we have a policy which has been much criticised over the years and now it is one which i will be able to defend with pleasure –because at the heart of it is the determination to rebuild our fish stocks, as the commissioner said, above maximum sustainable yield. of course it is a work in progress: there will be loopholes which will have to be closed; there will enforcement action that will be needed. but progress has already been made on the discards issue, which the commissioner pushed very hard personally. at one time fishermen were saying it could not be done and now, on a daily basis, we hear of new techniques being developed to reduce by-catch. i think the commissioner and our rapporteur deserve our thanks. between them they have given a better future for the fish in europeʼs seas and for our fishing industry.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, we are still waiting for the commission to propose a viable and sustainable solution to the question of fishing quotas in the north-east atlantic, one that reflects the increase in stock number, and those member states which abused their previous allocation should be sanctioned, not rewarded. i call on the commission to act to protect and to promote the interests of eu member states, such as ireland, which have acted responsibly and which have relied on these fishing resources for decades. overfishing by one country can have devastating effects on others and it is up to the commission to prevent this. i sincerely hope to see a fast and fair deal to prevent any further disruption in this fragile area and to the livelihoods of those who rely on it. i certainly hope that this chamber, the meps, can have confidence in the negotiations that are taking place, but i know from what we have heard this evening that there is a lot of concern.
mr president, i think there are some here who care more about the niceties of a procedure than they do about the state of our seas and the threat to our marine ecosystems. amendments have been tabled, which we will vote on tomorrow, calling for deep sea trawling below 600 metres to be banned. that reflects the position that the commission has put forward. it makes clear that this activity is deeply harmful. there is growing support across this house for these proposals because we all realise that at these depths it takes an enormously long time for the marine ecosystem to recover once it is damaged. three hundred marine scientists have written to us saying that we should stop this activity because of the damage. that is more scientists saying we should stop it than there are fishermen on a regular basis actually doing it! for heaven’s sake, let us listen to the science. remember we can always go back to start trawling if there is a seabed to trawl. we cannot stop it if we have destroyed the seabed, because if we do that it is gone for our lifetimes. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i missed my speaking time in the first debate because no one has yet discovered a way of getting to strasbourg from scotland by 5 p.m. however, i want to refer to what chris davies has just said. he talks about people being more concerned about the niceties of procedure. we spent months debating this with the sector, with the scientists, with the ngos, and we in the committee on fisheries arrived at a compromise proposal that met the agreement of all the political groups; and now we see these political groups putting down amendments for debate and voting tomorrow which is a betrayal of the parliamentary process. how can we have any confidence in future negotiations if this is the way people are going to react, simply because elections are due, and some people are courting publicity and being opportunistic in trying to win votes? this is not a way to be dealing with the sensible sustainable fisheries of the future.
blue-card answer. – mr president, although primarily this affects french boats, because they are the majority of boats fishing on a regular basis – and it is interesting that more and more french meps are coming out opposing this – there is a scottish element to this. in scotland the universities specialise in marine biology. that is where many of the marine scientists are coming from. why is mr stevenson not listening to the advice of his own scottish scientists?
mr president, if mr davies would like to come up to kinlochbervie, he will find a small community whose only business is provided by deep-water trawlers. they fish on the continental slope for whitefish, megrim, saithe and monkfish at 900 metres. that whole community is going to be destroyed by chris davies. i hope he comes up and speaks to the fishermen and the families who are going to lose their livelihoods because of this ridiculous, over-the-top reaction by him and his supporters.
mr president, we heard lots of self-congratulation earlier on this evening about cfp reform and the fact that we are ending 30 years of failure through over-centralised, one-size-fits-all decision-making, which has completely failed to recognise the very specific nature of the individual fisheries that we have around our coasts. the hard-won compromise led by mr arsenis would require member states to identify and protect vulnerable ecosystems using a science-led approach and an appropriate approach to these particular fisheries. for that reason, i cannot support amendments which now seek to reintroduce a one-size-fits-all policy: an arbitrary level above which all trawling everywhere will be banned. at one of the hearings referred to by mr arsenis we heard an expert who warned us of the unintended consequences of that – and it would be considerable and nothing to do with deep-sea species or the protection thereof – so we cannot credibly expect to be ending the one-size-fits-all approach in welcoming that on the one hand, and then, half an hour later, supporting the exact opposite. i shall therefore be supporting the compromise, hard won. give it a chance and tailor it to what we need to do to conserve stocks in relation to the exact needs of those stocks and ecosystems.
in writing. – i voted against this report, which contains many good proposals, as amendment 62 on article 9 was narrowly defeated. this concerned the banning of trawling and gillnets below a depth of 600 metres, thus protecting deep-sea species. deep-sea environments are increasingly ecologically fragile: things happen slowly there due to the cold and lack of light, yet they are ecologically diverse. disruption of that environment means it takes a long time to recover – just as high-mountain environments take a long time to recover when they are damaged. deep-sea trawling trashes the environment necessary for ecological diversity, creating long-term damage for a short-term return. this house has missed a valuable opportunity to further help the marine environment (which is increasingly under threat from climate change) by deferring a decision to stop deep-sea trawling. hence my decision to vote against this report.
blue-card question. – would mr obermayr agree that the free movement of people in article 6 is becoming unworkable, if indeed it is not unworkable already?
mr president, some in my country would say that britain in the eu is not british enough, and they would be right. but i would say that the european union is not european enough. the immigration policies of western member states and the embryonic eu policy have brought third world populations to europe and have turned parts of europe into the third world. identities are the product of ancestry and history, not of culture or legal contrivance. the eu does not have a european economic protectionist policy. it has a globalist policy designed to move by gradual degrees to a world economy with a common wage level and standard of living. there are genuine europhiles, but the eurocrats are not among them. they are cosmopolitans. ironically, the main media-created, pretend eurosceptic party in the uk is in favour of a quarter of a million immigrants each year and embraces globalism and global free trade.
rapporteur. − madam president, this report on recovery and resolution of non-bank financial institutions was written to look at both the systemic weaknesses that the recent financial crisis has highlighted in our market infrastructure and to assess the possible unintended consequences of the regulatory changes that have been implemented post the crisis. while the work on the recovery and resolution of banks has undergone a lot of international work, less has been done to improve the stability of our critical market infrastructure. yet the level of interconnectedness of our entire financial system has long been identified as a future weakness in the financial markets as a whole. we have seen what happens when one bank goes down. we have not yet seen what happens when a piece of critical market infrastructure collapses and i hope we do not see this anytime soon. this report focuses on that scenario, looking in particular at the possible failure of central clearing houses and settlement systems – so-called csds – and calling for further study of infrastructure risk in other sectoral areas, such as insurance and asset management. emir and the global derivatives reform agenda, once implemented, will mean more transactions essentially cleared at a regulated clearing house. while these institutions performed well during the 2008 crisis, they did not at that time deal with the volume of transactions that they necessarily will in the future. ccps have already been identified by the financial stability board and cpss-iosco as a possible new source of systemic risk. the macroprudential tools for supervision that are provided for in emir should, however, provide the necessary safeguards to ensure that ccps really do bring stability and greater transparency to the financial markets. however, in the event of a failure, we need to have in place a legally sound framework for ccps: should they themselves have recovery plans, and what powers do supervisory authorities need to have to intervene in their operations? this report emphasises that day-to-day operations should continue to create the right incentive structures for good governance of ccps so that banks, as clearing members, are still highly incentivised to participate in auctions, so that ccps themselves are not encouraged to clear products for which they cannot appropriately manage the risk, and indeed that end users of these clearing members – the clients and investors – are not exposed to more risk than they can understand or absorb. it is clear that should a counterparty fail or some operational failure cause the ccp to run out of margin, it should have the default waterfall to protect its members and the system users. the ccp default waterfall needs to be clearly defined and communicated. in debating the line between recovery and resolution, parliament reached a strong consensus around the view that if a ccp was able to agree measures amongst the clearing members to further refill this default waterfall, then that was recovery, albeit under the supervision of the resolution authority. however, if client assets were to be involved, by variation haircut margin or any other tool to disseminate losses more broadly, this could only be done under the auspices of resolution authorities. so indeed we need to make sure that we have systems in place such that if a ccp exhausts its default waterfall it cannot raid pension funds or asset managers’ resources because of its governance failures. if a ccp’s management has the option of using client assets before exhausting its own capital and utilising its own shareholder money, then there is no incentive for good governance to balance out their profit incentive. indeed, client assets should not be involved in recovery, only in resolution. my concerns with csds are slightly different but again emerge from regulatory concerns. there are issues here. we have a csdr legislation in place, coming through negotiations trialogue at the moment. this report calls upon the commission to deliver a legislative response for recovery resolution as soon as possible.
madam president, in my own east of england constituency technology has been developed which has allowed communication beyond our solar system to map the milky way, to test einstein’s theory of relativity from space and, of course, to establish europe’s own global positioning system. e2v and bae systems in chelmsford and astrium in stevenage tell me how important the eu support we are debating tonight is if we are to win the new space race for jobs and for technology. like our main rapporteur, ms niebler, however, i express concern about today’s announcement by eads in relation to their space and defence business, but i welcome the fact that i have received a commitment from astrium in stevenage that their plant and britain will remain part of the core business of the company. i welcome the fact that the job losses that have been announced may not take place for three years, and that there is every intention by the company to achieve them through natural wastage rather than redundancy. i urge the strongest possible consultation with the workforce and appropriate trade unions to achieve that aim.
madam president, from the uk’s perspective, the cars 2020 action plan for the car industry has the potential to turbocharge latest uk government plans to help manufacturers, such as jaguar land rover, to compete globally. it has the potential to improve the business environment and boost research and development. it needs to define and shape a car industry which remains strong and competitive globally and which also plays a full part in decarbonising energy for sustainable road transport. it also needs to be about how to focus support for research and development to help europe’s car industry meet the challenge of becoming greener but more competitive at the same time. i am very happy that much of this programme – this cars 2020 action plan – fits closely with vince cable’s strategy, at the uk government level, which is called driving success. this is also based on boosting research and improving the conditions business operates in. it is crucial that national and european levels work together and take action to help car manufacturers be competitive at a global level.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the development of an area of freedom, security and justice is a high priority for our union. this has been confirmed by the european council in the stockholm programme and is, i know, a view shared by this house. financing is vital for a successful implementation of the various measures which constitute the programme. adequate resources are an essential complement to legislative measures and policy initiative. if we are able to ensure an appropriate level of funding, we can help generate expertise and experience. this can assist in future policy-making and allows for a real transfer of learning and good practices. the programme on rights, equality and citizenship will contribute to the further development of an area where equality and the rights of people are promoted, protected and effectively implemented. these are rights which are enshrined in the eu treaties, the eu charter of fundamental rights and in various international human rights conventions. the programme seeks to promote non-discrimination and the prevention of racism and xenophobia, the rights of persons with disabilities, equality between women and men, combating violence against women and children, the rights of the child, data protection, citizenship rights and consumer rights. the programme on justice will contribute to the further development of a european area of justice based on mutual recognition and mutual trust. it focuses on promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, judicial training and facilitating access to justice, and supporting initiatives in the field of drugs policy. these two funding programmes cover a significant range of policy objectives and a large number of tools and measures for their implementation. they are sufficiently flexible to correspond to changing needs and policy priorities over the next seven years. the programmes will ensure consistency, complementarity and synergies with the previous funding programmes and with other instruments in other fields. the two programmes are relatively small. they mainly benefit public authorities, local authorities and small non-governmental organisations working on issues of the kind which i have just set out, all of them issues which have a direct impact on individual citizens. the agreement we have reached on these two proposals is a good one. it was only achieved recently but it is the result of positive and constructive cooperation between all the institutions involved. my particular thanks go to the rapporteurs kinga göncz, philip claeys and luigi berlinguer for their hard work and goodwill which were instrumental in our reaching an agreement and to all the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on legal affairs for their time and patience as we worked through the many issues which needed to be resolved before we could reach a successful outcome.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, after more than two years of negotiations on the multiannual financial framework we have two good compromise texts covering justice, rights, equality and citizenship. i would like to warmly thank the rapporteurs and the successive danish, cypriot, irish and lithuanian presidencies for their cooperation on these two files. the commission supports the compromise texts. they will back our policies with financial means for the upcoming seven years and they have also managed to settle the difficult issue of delegated and implementing acts. i am glad that funding has been maintained at levels comparable to what we had for 2007 and 2013. the budget for justice is eur 378 million; the one for rights is eur 439 million. this is modest, yes, but it is good news for those who promote a change in the areas which tend to be neglected in times of financial constraint. and it is good for the construction of a true european area of justice because it will promote judicial cooperation both in the areas of civil law and criminal law, covering also some drug-related aspects and having a very wide spectrum ranging from contractual law and insolvencies to procedural rights and victims’ rights. training and capacity-building for practitioners is a very important aspect of the programme, especially training of the judiciary across europe. web portals like e-justice and other modern ict tools should be made available to citizens and businesses to facilitate access to justice in a cross-border context. the exchange of good practices and mutual learning between member states can also encourage trans-border cooperation and enhance mutual trust. overall, the aims of the rights, equality and citizenship programme are to promote and protect the rights of persons deriving from eu law. policies promoting equality, combating discrimination, fighting racism, and funding roma inclusion are in this programme, as are citizenship and data protection legislation. the promotion of gender equality and children’s rights will be funded by this programme. our intention here is of course to have synergies with the daphne funds aimed at preventing violence against children, young people and women. once again, thank you and congratulations to the rapporteurs and to the presidencies for the good texts. i hope they will serve their purpose.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, we would very much like to thank the rapporteur, kinga göncz, on the rights, equalities and citizenship dossier for the very close cooperation we enjoyed from our committee. for us, one of the issues that we wanted to raise was certainly in terms of anti-discrimination. we know that we have the legislation on the statute books – much of it directly, of course, relevant to employment – but we know that in the world of work itself there is still a lot of work to be done in terms of a real understanding of what equalities mean: for those whom we are serving, but also for our colleagues. certainly in terms, for example, of disability we know that at the moment it is virtually impossible for people with disabilities to really be fairly treated in the workplace. so that was a major issue for us. also in terms of data protection: how that will affect people in the workplace directly was of course an area of concern. but i was also working on this for my political group and there i think that, given that it is international human rights day, talking about this programme is extremely important. we welcome it but, as people have said, it is modest; it is in many respects a small programme which is having to deal with very big tasks. we know too that hate speech is on the increase, whether that is against people with disabilities, or people of a different skin colour or background or sexual orientation. so we really want to see some work done on that. we know that a lot of the national organisations which exist under the current legislation are seeing their budgets dramatically cut. we know that equinet too is important in this role and therefore we really want to see some work done on promotion and delivery on very strong issues of anti-discrimination. as has been said, this also encompasses the old daphne programme and again organisations are seeing their support cut at the moment but domestic violence is increasing at a time of crisis. so we want to be able to continue the ground-breaking work that we have seen in a number of places from organisations working on these issues. childrenʼs rights, of course, come in as a newer dimension. we know from other work we have done in this parliament about the difficulties, for example, in providing real legal guardianship for children within the european union. so we can see that this programme might well also be able to help deliver something very positive for our children.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the justice programme seeks to further develop a common area of eu justice and legal policy, but it does this primarily through judicial training, and in particular advocating that judicial training is central to building mutual trust and improving cooperation between judicial authorities and practitioners in eu member states. as a practising lawyer with almost 40 years’ experience, i know that lawyers and judges are already trained to a high level and there are a number of programmes already in place catering for the continuing professional development of those in the legal services and professions in national states. examining the proposed regulation, i wondered why this further training was deemed necessary, and i wondered what evidence there was to suggest that the training of other professionals and practitioners, such as probation officers, court interpreters and bailiffs, would or could contribute to a further enhanced eu common legal culture. i ask these questions because, on the face of it, it seems perfectly reasonable to suggest that furthering and encouraging lawyers and judges’ knowledge of eu law is a good thing, but the budget for this programme is also substantial, at nearly eur 378 million. we need to question it on the basis of whether the european taxpayer’s money is being well spent. at a time of austerity, the eu intends to spend a significant amount on training this wide range of legal practitioners. i am also concerned about the inclusion of drugs policy within this programme. it was our initial understanding, at the beginning of the parliamentary process, that the drugs policy element would be excluded from the programme because there are a number of other well-tried instruments available at eu level to deal with this matter, including the eu drugs strategy 2013-2020. this is a matter that i believe should also remain substantially with national governments and i am really wondering why the commission decided to add this again at this stage. the programme is also a mixture of costly activities, language training and more legal training. i wish i could be more positive, but i am afraid that i cannot.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, some of you in europe may need an area of freedom, security and justice. we already had one in england under our constitution, our common law, protected by such things as the presumption of innocence, habeas corpus, the trial by jury and under the bill of rights. these are now being superseded and overridden by the eu creating its own system of civil and criminal law. any british citizen can now be carted off to any other eu member state purely on the strength of a piece of paper: the infamous european arrest warrant. all of these rest on the idiotic doctrine of mutual recognition, which says that any eu legal system is equal to any other eu legal system. this is obvious nonsense. the british government had the opportunity to opt out of 135 of these measures in mid-2014; instead, it intends to opt into the 35 worst and most dangerous. mr cameron could have genuinely repatriated some powers; instead, he is going to hand to the eu on a plate powers that endanger all our traditional, centuries-old liberties and freedoms.
mr president, the general objective of the programme is to develop further mutual recognition by promoting judicial cooperation in criminal and civil matters. it all sounds rather splendid until, of course, the difficulties are examined. there are enormous differences in substantive law and trial procedure between member states, and even within them. however, there are also differences in legal culture between the common law and continental systems, with particular reference to freedoms to act. the starting presumption in common law is that persons have the freedom to do whatever is not prohibited by law. the starting position in many continental countries is that rights are created by proclamation and can be easily defined. whilst even in common law systems they can be defined negatively and repressively, the jury system is a safeguard against legislation and prosecutions that are considered to be unreasonable. we can see how this difference manifests itself in practice: many continental countries restrict freedom of expression in an extreme, obsessive and quite insane way.
mr president, eu mutual recognition instruments in criminal justice can only work effectively, efficiently and fairly with common standards that give judges, lawyers and citizens the confidence that fundamental rights are being respected throughout the eu. i therefore strongly regret that we heard a sceptical-verging-on-negative attitude to the justice programme from my british conservative colleague timothy kirkhope. i guess this echoes that of his party colleague, the uk justice secretary. i urge a uk opt-in to this programme and i am pleased that the uk coalition government plans to stay a participant in many eu mutual recognition instruments, including the european arrest warrant, on which i am drafting a report for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. however, better training and support for judges and lawyers is required to make this work fairly. if the uk fails to opt in, british judges, lawyers and ngos will be excluded from funding, which would be a highly regrettable situation. i therefore urge the uk government, on international human rights day, to decide to opt in to the justice programme.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the union’s civil protection mechanism is designed to coordinate relief efforts between member states in response to requests for assistance. when a member state is overwhelmed by an emergency – like floods, earthquakes, forest fires – a request for assistance is sent to the commission’s emergency response centre, which then circulates the request and receives offers of assistance from other member states and international organisations. thankfully, until now, my own country, the united kingdom, has not needed to call on such assistance, but it has made inquiries, and the opportunity to use this eu assistance is welcomed should it arise in future. recent weather patterns – particularly, in my region, including increased flooding – suggest that day might unfortunately not be too far away. only last thursday, hull, the city in my constituency where my office is situated, was flooded. the role of the uk as a contributor of assistance to other member states and international humanitarian operations means i can clearly see the value of the coordination role of the civil protection mechanism. it allows for efficiency savings and can, hopefully, prevent chaos on the ground where lots of people are trying to do different things at the same time. the improvements negotiated, including increased preparedness planning and the voluntary pooling of civil protection assets, will make for better eu assistance in this area. a number of problems arose, but in the negotiations we managed to avoid these by: keeping financing levels to a point where moral hazard is avoided; allowing member states to keep national security information out of preparedness planning documents that are shared with the commission and other member states; and making sure that member states can withdraw from voluntary pools if they themselves are hit by a domestic emergency. the liberal group, and parliament as a whole, should be happy to vote for this legislation.
madam president, the civil protection mechanism means in effect civil protection money, but the european union does not have any money; it belongs to the nation states. what the eu is doing is taking money from member states and then handing it back, repackaged as the european union. this is taking with one hand and giving with the other. it is little more than kidology. this is a desperate effort to get the citizens of europe to love the european union at a time when its popularity has hit rock bottom. i am not opposed to helping out people who need help in times of natural disasters – fires, floods and earthquakes can completely wreck societies. we have seen this recently in the philippines, where the aid has come in. look at what the british have done: the uk government has given gbp 60 million, provided planes, helicopters and ships, and the british people have provided gbp 70 million in donations. so this is proof that we already give aid when natural disasters occur. what we do not have to do is to filter it through the european union for the eu to use as propaganda.
mr president, a rather surreal debate is going on in the united kingdom that is completely disconnected from the facts as viewed from this chamber. we are talking about reforming and overhauling the european system, repatriating powers and so on. we occasionally get friendly allies on the continent – from the netherlands or scandinavia and even, from time to time, the italian prime minister – saying that this is all a jolly good idea. meanwhile, day after day, the acquis communautaire grows, with new powers being awarded by the institutions to themselves, not least in this area of justice and home affairs and the most awful power that a state has over its citizens: supreme coercive force. for 40 years we have had this dialogue of the deaf, with britain talking and fantasising about a europe that exists only in pamphlets, while meanwhile the institutions carry on doing what bureaucracies the world over do, which is to aggrandise their powers. no renegotiation will be worth the paper it is written on unless it tackles this jurisdictional question, withdraws us from the competence of those eu institutions and allows us to live alongside our friends and neighbours in europe under our own laws.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to facilitate more judicial cooperation. this is the conclusion of a long debate but i am satisfied that the concerns of my constituents in wales have been addressed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support judicial cooperation across the eu member states in both criminal and civil matters. moving towards a common legal culture will help to facilitate access to justice for all. although the uk has not signed up to this programme, the terms agreed are such that we (the uk) may consider opting in after adoption.
in writing. − this proposed regulation would streamline three existing eu programmes in the field of justice into one overarching ‘justice programme’ for 2014-2020. i do not support a common eu legal and judicial area and i have concerns regarding the level of eu expenditure this proposal foresees for judicial training, therefore i voted against this report today.
mr president, let me make a concession, cynical hard-bitten eurosceptic as i am. the european union is at its best when it holds up a model of the rule of law to neighbouring countries. one achievement which i will happily concede is that simply showing how you can live when you elevate the law over the government, rather than the reverse, has drawn a number of neighbouring states into a different way of regulating their behaviour. what we are discussing in this report is essentially the benefits of living under the rule of law. this is why i would urge caution in our response to the events now happening immediately across our border in ukraine. if i were ukrainian, i would want a free trade deal with the european union and – with all of its imperfections – i would prefer this undemocratic system to that of the kremlin, but a legitimate, elected government is taking a decision which it plainly has the authority to take. we are in danger of toppling from saying that we dislike the decision to saying that the government itself has no legitimacy; as in egypt we are dangerously close to calling for an effective putsch. if we do that, then on what basis do we claim that our democratic system is better than anybody else’s?
in writing. − this programme is an amalgamation of three current citizenship programmes, which allows for a comprehensive funding approach. i voted in favour as i support the objective of the funds being extended to include the rights of the disabled and the fight against racism, as well as the development of eu citizenship in general.
in writing. − again this report proposes to replace three current programmes with a single rights and citizenship programme for 2014-2020. i believe that this report is a mixed-bag in terms of outcome. there have been some significant improvements on the proposals originally considered in committee; however i remain concerned that this proposal appears to encroach upon the exclusive competence of the member states in its addressing of some issues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i support continuing trade preferences and cooperation with moldova.
mr president, i abstained on this report. i welcome progress with the protocol. the uk does have a small interest in the fisheries off morocco and the western sahara and that is why i have taken some interest in the debate. what i look for in this new agreement is an assurance that it conforms to international law; that it will provide value for money to the uk and eu taxpayer; that those fishing opportunities secured will be sustainable and surplus to the needs of the local fishing industry in the region; that safeguards are in place to ensure financial support is utilised in the correct manner; and, finally, that any agreement must not undermine un efforts to find a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution in the western sahara. this report makes some progress, but not enough. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. − i voted against this report: the agreement gives eu boats the right to fish in western saharawi territorial waters. this is illegal under international law, as morocco has no right to exploit the natural resources of a country it occupies. i have long campaigned for the right of the saharawi people to self-determination. their human rights are being violated every single day by this occupation and the violence that is used against those who try to oppose the occupation. this report undermines any credibility that europe has to negotiate and promote respect for human rights on a world stage. i will continue to work for the rights of the saharawi people with the campaign for western sahara, based in wales.
in writing. − i voted against the new fisheries protocol with morocco. this protocol will allow fisheries in the waters of western sahara, waters to which morocco has no legal claim in international law. the right to self-determination is more important than the right for eu boats to fish in these waters and it is an outrage that this house has deemed otherwise.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i believe that the eu should not reinstitute a fisheries agreement with morocco with the unresolved issue of western saharan independence still in the background. i believe this should only be done once it can be proved that any agreement would be a benefit to the people of the western sahara and that it can be proved that the citizens gave the agreement their consent.
in writing. − i will be voting against this report for a number of reasons. firstly, there are still doubts as to whether the commission has demonstrated that this agreement is done with the consent of the sahrawi people or will benefit the wider population. secondly, questions still arise regarding international law and human rights. thirdly, the government of morocco, despite many approaches by myself, has not only refused to recognise the game of rugby league as a separate game from rugby union, but has taken no action to stop the blatant discrimination being practised by the moroccan rugby union against rugby league in violation of the international rugby union rules and also the rights of citizens to play any game of their choice. it is my view that until such time as these issues are resolved with morocco, parliament should not have any agreements with morocco, fishing or otherwise. whilst accepting that the moroccan ambassador in brussels has tried to raise the issue of rugby league, the refusal of the moroccan ministry of sport to even discuss this issue is unacceptable and a breach of human rights.
in writing. − i voted against this agreement as the commission has still not adequately demonstrated that the agreement received consent from the sahrawi people and that it will be of benefit to the population. the new protocol still raises serious questions of international law and human rights.
in writing. − i hope that following the approval of this protocol today this agreement will now be able to function fully effectively, delivering environmental sustainability as a priority and assisting the region with employment and further economic benefits.
in writing. − it is clear that the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement has wider implications for human rights in morocco. it is of the upmost importance that the eu does not re-institute a fisheries agreement with morocco while these human rights concerns remain unaddressed. the commission has failed to demonstrate adequately that the fisheries agreement has the consent of the moroccan public, and that the agreement with benefit the people of morocco. for these reasons, i have voted against granting parliament consent to the conclusion of the protocol. i believe that it is the responsibility of the commission to now submit clearer proposals on a fair implementation process that would be acceptable to all parties.
in writing. − this protocol will allow european fishing vessels to fish in the seas off morocco, including in waters off the disputed territory of western sahara, in return for a financial contribution. parliament rejected the protocol in 2011 over concerns that the people of western sahara would not benefit from the money. i voted against this revised report as i believe that, despite its efforts, the commission has not adequately demonstrated that the agreement has received consent from the sahrawi people and will be of benefit to the population of western sahara. i have previously supported a proposal that there should not be a new fisheries agreement with morocco while the western sahara issue remains unresolved and in voting on this report i stood by that position. the eu should promote international law and human rights in all our dealings with third countries and i am not convinced that, as it is, this agreement has properly taken account of the human rights of the sahrawi people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which will permit member states to ratify the ilo’s convention concerning safety in the use of chemicals at work. i have worked with many organisations and companies in wales on chemical-related issues which are important to the environment as well as safety at work. i welcome such international agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which will ensure that member states fully implement the ilo convention and that workers receive the full protection it affords.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it encourages ratification of the ilo convention, which will secure the prevention and reduction of chemically induced illnesses and injuries at work.
in writing. − member state competence in the field of employment and social affairs must be fully respected by the european union. i will continue to oppose efforts to encroach upon member state competence within this area and therefore i voted against this initiative today.
in writing. − it is of the upmost importance that workers within the eu are protected, particularly when working with chemicals. to protect these potentially vulnerable workers, i voted for convention no 170, which aims to secure both the prevention and the reduction of chemically reduced illnesses and injuries at work. i am pleased to see the establishment of the evaluation of chemicals, increased access to information from chemical suppliers for workers and of protective programmes for workers. i hope that this convention marks a step towards greater protection for workers in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which seeks to conclude on behalf of the eu the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the united nations convention against transnational organized crime. i believe that my constituents in wales look to the eu to enable such cross-border controls on dangerous weapons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement as i support the conclusion of the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition. this protocol is an important instrument in the fight against organised crime and trafficking in firearms.
in writing. − i fully support the exchange of information in this area; such cooperation will greatly enhance our capacity to tackle firearms trafficking and therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is an important step in allowing for the relatively recent expansion of the eu. to account for expansion, appropriate compensatory measures were required to redress the balance between the larger eu and other wto members.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i appreciate the need for compensatory measures to be agreed between the eu and other wto members after the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu. these measures are necessary to redress the balance with regard to the eu’s external tariff regime.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement which has been negotiated with the people’s republic of china and now outlines the compensatory adjustments required on account of bulgaria and romania’s accession to the eu.
in writing. − prolonging duty-free imports of us beef could jeopardise sustainable beef production in wales. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it extends the currently existing agreement between the eu and us on the import of hormone-treated beef between both countries. i do not agree with the production of hormone-treated beef and as such support the extension of this ban.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i support the continuation of the memorandum of understanding between the eu and the united states with regard to hormone-treated beef.
in writing. − the trading partnership that exists between the united states and the eu is the largest in the world and of vital importance for all of our economies. the ongoing negotiations on the ttip offer an exciting opportunity to strengthen and deepen this partnership and therefore we must do all that we can to ensure that they are a success. in light of this, i am pleased to see parliament voting in favour of this revised memorandum of understanding, so that a positive outcome on this issue of non-hormone-treated beef can be maintained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this tuna agreement because it will have a positive affect overall, including on wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this protocol because it was strongly supported by the fisheries, budgets and (crucially) development committees. this protocol will provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the sea around the ivory coast, but crucially only for the surplus after native ivorian boats have fished.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this protocol as i support european fishing opportunities by côte d’ivoire.
in writing. − i support the renewal of this protocol to a fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the côte d’ivoire and i therefore voted in favour of this report today. this agreement has demonstrated that it is economically justified and effective and i hope that it will continue in this manner, whilst also generating further support for the development of sustainable fisheries practices.
in writing. − i voted for this report. despite their fishing industry, the canary islands are not self-sufficient in fish and so need to import produce. i hope that the welsh fishing industry will develop to a point that we can become self-sufficient, but that in the meantime we will receive eu support.
in writing. − i voted against the naranjo escobar report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund – application egf/2013/001 fi/nokia from finland – because i believe that the egf was conceived to get countries to vote for the lisbon treaty. the money is poorly used and does not achieve its purported goals of increasing employment. its only aim is to make the eu look relevant in the area of employment when in fact eu policies are creating unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the european globalisation adjustment fund serves to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. in finland, 4 509 workers were made redundant as a result of the transfer of functions from finland to third countries outside of europe. in wales we have seen the loss of many jobs due to factory closures or businesses moving elsewhere. we have not yet applied for use of the fund in wales, although i did request the welsh government to do so in the case of the loss of burberry jobs in the rhondda.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this application as i support assistance for nokia workers in finland who have been made redundant as a result of changing world trade patterns.
in writing. − i am opposed to the use of this fund in principle and i therefore voted against this proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. − i voted against the neynsky report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund – application egf/2013/003 de/first solar from germany – because i believe that the egf was conceived to get countries to vote for the lisbon treaty. the money is poorly used and does not achieve its purported goals of increasing employment. its only aim is to make the eu look relevant in the area of employment when in fact eu policies are creating unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the european globalisation adjustment fund supports the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant due to major structural changes because of globalisation. in this case 959 workers were made redundant due to the closures of two first solar plants. in wales we have seen the loss of many jobs due to factory closures or businesses moving elsewhere. we have not yet applied for use of the fund in wales, although i did request the welsh government to do so in the case of the loss of burberry jobs in the rhondda.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this application as i support assistance for first solar manufacturing workers who have been made redundant as a result of the decline in demand for solar power. the funds will be used to reintegrate the workers into the workforce and provide training and job search advice.
in writing. − i am opposed to the use of this fund in principle and i therefore voted against this proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. − i voted against the kozłowski report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund – application egf/2013/011 dl/vestas from denmark – because i believe that the egf was conceived to get countries to vote for the lisbon treaty. the money is poorly used and does not achieve its purported goals of increasing employment. its only aim is to make the eu look relevant in the area of employment when in fact eu policies are creating unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the european globalisation adjustment fund serves to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant due to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. in this case 611 workers in denmark were made redundant due to the rapid expansion of the global wind energy sector which has led to a significant reduction of the eu market share. in wales we have seen the loss of many jobs due to factory closures or businesses moving elsewhere. we have not yet applied for use of the fund in wales, although i did request the welsh government to do so in the case of the loss of burberry jobs in the rhondda.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this application as i support assistance for vestas group workers who have been made redundant as a result of changes in world change patterns and a fall in demand for wind turbines.
in writing. − i am opposed to the use of this fund in principle and i therefore voted against this proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, canada is a model liberal western democracy and one of our closest friends. it is exactly the kind of country with which the eu should be forming free trade agreements, not least because of its booming economy, but almost uniquely amongst g7 and wealthier nations it avoided falling victim to the banking crisis which then engulfed the rest of the western nations. so therefore i am delighted by the ongoing progress with the ceta free trade agreement which was recently initialled by mr barroso and prime minister harper of canada and should be finally signed without major problems next year. regrettably, however, the strategic partnership agreement (spa) which we voted on today has been the victim of greater controversy politically. canada is the world’s second largest country by size, with deep ties both to my country, being in the commonwealth, and to france, and with many other european countries on account of the large diaspora communities that live there. it wields enormous political prestige and influence on the world stage as one of the world’s fairest and most democratic of countries. it is therefore bizarre that the whole of the spa was at risk on account of an inappropriate human rights clause which not only sought to suspend the spa in the event of major human rights abuses in canada, but also sought to bring down the free trade agreement with it. this is nothing short of an insult to canada, which has stronger and longer human rights records than many of our own member states. we cannot persist with a one-size-fits-all system, which groups canada alongside countries with grave and systemic human rights abuses, and we cannot seek to sit in judgment or assert moral superiority over such a country. it seems that we may have reached a compromise now with the spa, which places strong emphasis on human rights on both sides, but does not interfere with the ceta. the alternative is to have no agreement at all and that would be very much to my regret.
in writing. − i abstained on this report. the agreement under negotiation would update and revitalise the relationship between the eu and canada and considerably contribute to the deepening of political, economic and cultural relations and the improvement of our cooperation in many areas. however, regrettably canada withdrew from the kyoto protocol in 2011 while the eu has repeatedly called on ottawa to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions in line with its international commitments. it is imperative that all nations reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. wales has a commitment to sustainable development and strong international agreements are essential to achieve that.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it includes a human rights clause with clear wording. it is important that human rights clauses are included in all agreements with third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this is an important partnership between two allies.
in writing. − i voted for the swinburne report on the recovery and resolution framework for non-bank institutions because it advocates the drawing up of strong recovery and resolution rules for the central counterparties and central securities depositories, whose systemic risk and relevance has increased in recent years.
in writing. − i agreed with this attempt to lessen the dependence of big banks and other parts of the financial system on government support. we need to monitor the risks very closely. wales was damaged by the banking crisis just like the rest of the eu and we have to put mechanisms in place to prevent it happening again.
in writing. − i voted against this report. while i believe that better integration and coordination of eu space programmes is positive, the overall purpose of the report is to justify investment of more public funds into the space industry. i cannot support more public funds being invested into eu space programmes as our priority should be jobs and growth. in wales we are net beneficiaries of the eu budget and we are able to improve our infrastructure and provide opportunities for young people through the use of these funds. i do not want to see funds being diverted to space programmes when so many people are suffering the consequences of the economic crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i recognise that the space industry is a driver for growth and innovation beyond its own sector and thus support the proposed measures to keep europeʼs space industry competitiveness at a global level.
in writing. − i welcome the opportunity this own-initiative report provides to evaluate the state of play on eu space industrial policy. this report addresses a number of key issues concerning our space industry and i voted in favour of its adoption here today.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which promotes the use of cloud services while setting minimum guidance on protecting citizens’ interests, especially in regard to openness transparency and data protection. cloud computing has a huge potential and should provide for citizens, businesses and the public sector. i want to see my constituents in wales benefiting from the technology risk-free.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in order for us to take full economic and educational advantage of ‘cloud computingʼ, the eu must develop a clear legal framework by which it will be regulated.
in writing. − cloud computing is one of the key recent advances in information and communication technology and has real potential to deliver benefits in areas such as direct cost savings and more efficient use of physical and human resources. i welcome this reports suggestion of the need to work with industry to develop common standards for cloud computing. however national security and intelligence agencies are a matter of member state competence and i do have concerns with regards to some aspects of this report which make reference to these. therefore i am unable to give this report my full support and i opted to abstain.
in writing. − i voted for the sedó i alabart report on the berec evaluation report because my party is a strong supporter of berecʼs model of governance, as it affords flexibility to member states to ensure the functioning of their own markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications is functioning well and has enabled a gradual deepening of mutual trust between national regulatory authorities. since its creation we have seen many positives from berec in the areas of net neutrality and international roaming. my constituents in wales benefit from better regulation of electronic communications markets
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i support the suggested improvements to the eu telecoms body berec which aim to increase efficiency and accountability.
mr president, the new common fisheries policy (cfp) promises much: a so-called discard ban, regionalisation, incentives to maximise the value of catches and multiannual fisheries plans. my fishermen in northern ireland have been congratulated for the courage they have shown in addressing the challenges contained in the new cfp. this courage should be rewarded. next week eu fisheries ministers will meet in brussels to agree fishing opportunities for 2014. these decisions are critical for our fishermen and for our fish stocks. fisheries in the irish sea have been managed to a position where the industry is dependent upon one species – nephrops. the scientific advice we depend on to manage the stock emphasises how stable the stock is as fishermen have reduced effort in the area and adopted highly selective gears. it is therefore imperative that a rollover of the 2013 tac is secured for 2014, not cuts. the stock is stable and it is precisely this stability that needs to be enshrined in the fisheries plans of tomorrow.
mr president, the new common fisheries policy is definitely a step forward. the uk fishing industry saw over gbp 770 million worth of fish caught in 2012. it boasts the european union’s second-largest fishing fleet in terms of capacity and sixth-largest by number of vessels. the common fisheries policy is hugely important to the economy of my country, and london – the region i represent – is of course a very large consumer of fish products. the agreement reached has seen concessions made by all sides, but i welcome the positive and successful contribution that the uk has made to the deal which we voted on today. this new agreement will give member states greater control and flexibility over their fisheries policy, whilst enforcing the necessary limits needed to ensure that fishing is conducted on a sustainable basis. i am pleased that this will be achieved by annual quotas that are underpinned by firm scientific advice based on conservation of marine resources, and by moving away from the more politically motivated short-termist approach that has historically been witnessed for far too long.
in writing. − the cfp has been an unmitigated disaster for the past 30 years. this reform is the last chance to get it right and i voted in favour. nevertheless, it remains to be seen how the new balance of power works and it is essential that the commission acts in good faith and allows member states to take real decisions on the management of their fishery resources.
in writing. − i voted for this report as now the cfp is being reformed and is taking a turn in the direction of sustainability. the new agreed policy will meet the key objectives – ending discards, restoring fish stocks to sustainable levels, and promoting smaller-scale coastal fishing within the eu.
in writing. − this report contains a number of welcome provisions for a revised common fisheries policy (cfp), which will hopefully lead to this reform being noted as one of the success stories of this mandate. i voted in favour of this report which rightly reflects the calls that have been made by so many of our constituents to introduce a ban on discards. it also establishes essential measures to decentralise the cfp, bring an end to overfishing and restore our fish stocks to sustainable levels. i welcome the adoption of this long-awaited reform today and hope that it will deliver the political objectives agreed once implemented by member states.
in writing. − the common fisheries policy brings together a range of measures designed to achieve eu objectives in the field of fisheries. the policy is working towards reforming the fishing industry in the eu, including sustainable quotas and a discard ban. i was particularly pleased to see the increasing delegation of day-to-day decisions about the running of particular fisheries, including conservation measures, to regional advisory councils. i voted for the common fisheries policy because i believe that the inclusion of both fishermen and scientists will result in a better quality fisheries policy that is tailored to the needs of individual areas. i have, along with my fellow labour meps, fought long and hard for major reform of the cfp in a sustainable direction, and we are pleased to see these reforms becoming a reality.
in writing. − i was pleased to support this report, which represents a fundamental change to the euʼs 30-year-old common fisheries policy (cfp) and will see the introduction of far-reaching reforms to help preserve european fish stocks, and the fishing industry, for future generations. the new cfp will bring an end to the hugely wasteful practice of discarding fish back into the ocean, to keep within quota limits, by introducing a ban from 2015. it will also oblige fisheries ministers to set sustainable fishing quotas and will introduce fish-stock recovery areas to give additional protection to spawning grounds and sensitive areas. in addition, the reforms will transfer day-to-day management of fisheries to regional level, so that this is managed by people who know the local area, and will allow member states to award larger quotas to fleets that practise sustainable fishing methods, thereby helping our small-scale fishermen.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, after negotiations with the council, the parliament was finally voting on a strong report. disappointingly, our amendment on the transparency of labelling did not pass in committee. however, the report was strong on ending the practice of discarding edible fish and improving sustainable fish labelling.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as i support the implementation of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − this report forms an essential component of what is a pleasing overall reform of the common fisheries policy. i hope that the measures outlined in this report in areas such as producer organisations, labelling, marketing and production strategies will enable the delivery of a fairer and simpler cfp for both the industry and consumers.
mr president, i take a contrary view to the previous speaker on this particular report. i believe that the report was heavily influenced by scientific advice that has not been proven and is still relatively new and sparse. therefore, i voted for amendment 62, the position of the committee, which was taken after a very considered debate in committee, and i therefore support the position of parliament on this particular issue.
in writing. − i voted against this report at the request of many of my constituents in wales who contacted me about this. deep sea environments are ecologically fragile and are very vulnerable to over-fishing. we have had much debate in recent months about the need to balance support for our fishing industry with protecting the unique marine environment. i believe that this report helps achieve that.
in writing. − this house only narrowly defeated an amendment which would have had a devastating effect on coastal communities along the whole atlantic coast. the rapporteur’s last-minute decision to renege on the compromise that colleagues have spent months working on with him is shameful, and brings no credit upon this parliament. the defeated amendment sought to move away from an evidence-based approach based on the specific needs of vulnerable ecosystems, by applying a general ban on trawling below a specified depth, and i accordingly could not support it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and in favour of the ban on deep-sea trawling as i believe in sustainable fishing. i support a precautionary approach as deep-sea stocks are vulnerable to rapid depletion.
in writing. − protecting and preserving our marine environments has rightly been a key focus of the reform of the common fisheries policy and the state of our deep sea marine environments is an area that requires our full attention. i personally feel strongly that all deep sea fishing must be carried out in a sustainable manner. whilst not perfect, i do feel that this report makes important advances in the management of deep sea fisheries and therefore i voted in favour of its adoption today.
in writing. − i am aware of the current concerns that have been raised in relation to the impact of deep-sea fishing. deep-sea stocks are highly vulnerable to overfishing, with a real potential for stock depletion in a short period of time. i am concerned that the measures taken thus far have not been effective in solving these fundamental problems. deep-sea bottom trawling is economically, socially and environmentally costly, and the eu needs to phase out the most destructive fishing methods in favour of more sustainable methods. this is why i have voted in favour of this amendment to re-introduce a ban on deep-sea bottom trawling below 600 meters. i was very disappointed to learn that the bottom trawling ban that i and my colleagues supported was narrowly rejected.
in writing. − this report aims to establish a stricter system of rules for fishing in the deep-sea waters of the north atlantic. the area is very susceptible to overfishing and deep-sea environments are more sensitive to human activity, so a more precautionary approach is clearly needed. i wanted to see a total ban on deep-sea trawling, where heavy, industrial nets are dragged along the seabed. the practice is hugely destructive for vulnerable marine ecosystems and is completely incompatible with the sustainable fishing we have been calling for in the reform of the common fisheries policy. most scientific opinion states that only a ban on trawling will be effective in helping to protect threatened species and such a ban would be perfectly workable as more selective and less harmful equipment is already available. i am disappointed that an amendment replacing a ban with a review in four yearsʼ time was narrowly passed with the help of conservative meps.
in writing. − i voted against the gardini report on a civil protection mechanism because the budget for the civil protection mechanism will almost double in the next seven years from eur 189 million to eur 326.6 million, which i consider unacceptable. i have significant concerns regarding the potential for mission creep by the commission in a number of loosely defined provisions. i am concerned also about the proposed new 24/7 european emergency response capacity which could unnecessarily interfere with member statesʼ response to disasters inside the eu.
in writing. − this mechanism to ensure cooperation between member states and the eu in the event of natural and man-made disasters is essential to all countries, including wales. we know from past disasters just how much can be learned from examples in other parts of the world so that measures can be taken to prevent future crises. i voted for this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a mechanism by which cooperation and solidarity between member states will be strengthened. it will be applied to states both inside and outside of the eu in truly desperate situations such as hurricane katrina in the us and forest fires in spain and greece.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the scheme, which was designed to prevent and respond to disasters both in eu countries and across the world. the programme has previously aided the victims of hurricane katrina in the us, the earthquake and tsunami in japan, and forest fires in greece and spain. i support the continuation of this life-saving scheme. giving the commission an enhanced role will make the response systems more effective and the budget agreed has the support of the uk government.
in writing. − i voted against this report, which i feel raises a number of serious budgetary and subsidiarity concerns. proposals such as the new 24/7 european emergency response capacity could also unnecessarily interfere with member states’ responses to disasters inside the eu. for these reasons i voted to reject this proposal at today’s vote.
in writing. − i supported this report which provides the mechanism for member states to support each other, and third countries, in preventing and responding to both natural and man-made disasters. in the past, such funding has been used to help deal with forest fires in greece and spain, as well as the aftermath of hurricane katrina and typhoon haiyan. the civil protection mechanism is an example of the solidarity and cooperation that should be at the heart of the european union and measures included in this report will promote cooperation by facilitating the sharing of information and resources through the establishment of a common emergency communication and information system and an emergency and response coordination centre.
in writing. − real estate bubbles in ireland and elsewhere are believed to have been one of the causes of the financial crisis. the commission proposal aims to address this. it proposes a standard information document with information on the credit agreement and other measures to ensure that loans can be met and dealt with swiftly in the event of default. i supported this in the interests of my constituents in wales.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as it targets the irresponsible mortgage lending which led to the global financial crisis and affords better protection to consumers. the new directive will help create more responsible lending practices across the eu.
in writing. − in order to address some of the problems highlighted by the crisis with regards to mortgages, this proposal centres on the need to introduce better safeguards and to make available more information for consumers taking out mortgages. whilst i welcome some of the progress that has been made during trilogue negotiations on this issue, i remain unconvinced that eu legislation is the right tool with which to handle mortgage markets.
in writing. − i voted for the commission proposal and supported the rapporteurʼs request to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution. the regulation will have no immediate impact on rice imports. i have worked closely with organisations like oxfam in wales and supported the everything but arms arrangement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will benefit both bangladesh and eu member states. the s&d group tabled an amendment to ensure that only rice harvested in conditions approved by the ilo can be imported. the report amends a council position which modified preferences for husked rice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as i support trade preferences with bangladesh in the export of rice to the eu.
in writing. − i can support the position outlined in this report on taking further steps to align trade legislation to articles 290 and 291 of the tfeu, in this case with regards to the regulation on imports of rice originating in bangladesh.
in writing. − today i have voted for a report which aligns trade preferences for bangladesh with the new comitology in omnibus i and ii, which means that bangladesh will be able to export duty free, quote free husked rice to the eu. i am pleased to see the amendment which ensures that only rice which has been harvested in conditions approved by the ilo can be imported.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which is aimed at tackling the oversupply of emissions allowances in the euʼs emissions trading scheme by postponing the auctioning of 900 million allowances. we now need to move on to truly tackling the problems with the emissions trading scheme. ‘backloadingʼ is only a stop-gap measure to buy time for more fundamental structural reform of the scheme and is unlikely to have any major impact on the artificially low carbon price. the commission must now move urgently to propose more structural reforms to the eu carbon market. this implies permanently retiring allowances and increasing the outdated 2020 eu emissions reduction target. this is an issue which the wales climate change commission has addressed in some detail.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which is vital to the proper working of greenhouse gas allowances. the fact that the uk tories voted against their own government’s recommendations shows how out of touch they are and how out of control david cameron is of his own party.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as i appreciate the need to amend the auctioning timetable of ets allowances. this will help correct the over-allocation of allowances which is pushing carbon prices down.
in writing. − as this proposal returns to the plenary session, many of my concerns about it remain. the emissions trading system (ets) was established as a market mechanism and i maintain my position that it must therefore be allowed to function as one. the proposed commission intervention would only serve to create uncertainty and undermine much needed market predictability. whilst i acknowledge that this ets mechanism does require reform, i cannot support this proposed course of action and therefore i voted against this report today.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. the recycling of paper currently stands at 72 % across the eu, but this could and must go up further. there is a clear demand for waste paper in the eu, paper mills are not operating at full capacity, therefore it would be desirable to further increase the separate collection of waste paper. in wales we have developed a reasonably good system of recycling but there are improvements that need to be made.
in writing. − i support the commission’s draft measure establishing criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste. this proposal aims to remove obligations and burdens placed upon businesses (in this case those dealing with the end of waste materials), something which i always welcome, and therefore i voted to reject this objection at today’s vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. roma women face severe exclusion in the field of employment as well as discrimination in the workplace when looking for employment or in employment. they are often excluded from the formal economy, with limited educational opportunities, inadequate housing and poor healthcare. action needs to be taken to tackle the discrimination they face. i am proud that there are roma groups in wales working on strategies to support young people in training and employment and in promoting their culture. i have tried to promote this best practise across the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the situation of the roma really needs to be addressed. the roma continue to occupy a marginalised position in society across the eu. women especially are at risk of a wealth of social and economic problems, including prostitution, illiteracy and hiv/aids. this was a strong report that severely criticises the current situation of roma woman and asks member states to allocate sufficient funds in their roma integration strategies to improving the situation of roma women.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as i support the societal integration of the roma, particularly roma women.
in writing. − once again here, i believe we are voting on an issue where a one-size-fits-all approach at eu level will not generate the best outcome. i believe that member states should be able to formulate their own roma inclusion policies to effectively tackle the problems of inclusion and integration they face.
mr president, two years after its formation the stark reality is that south sudan is one of the poorest countries on earth: 50% of the population is thought to be living in poverty and access to healthcare, water and electricity is extremely limited. this report rightly emphasis two factors that should be at the heart of steps taken to address this crisis. firstly, respect for a stable democratic system of government; and secondly, greater investment in education and agriculture to create a skilled workforce and increase food production. the committee also stresses the economic and social potential underlying greater cooperation between south sudan and its neighbours. whilst i recognise these benefits, i am also mindful of the ongoing escalation of persecution against christians in sudan, as the secession of the predominantly christian south sudan has led to the arrest, detention and deportation of many priests and pastors. the issue of licences for new church buildings has also been banned. ultimately, upholding these fundamental freedoms must be a prerequisite to greater cooperation in the region, moving forward.
mr president, i welcome the de keyser report on development and state-building in south sudan. this is a very new country in which i have taken quite a considerable interest and whose birth as a state has not been without problems, which is perhaps to be expected given the long and brutal civil war which preceded its birth. in addition to the pervasive poverty witnessed in so much of the region, south sudan has huge challenges in terms of governance, corruption, poor infrastructure and poor services, and in particular the issue of women’s and girls’ rights. these problems must be tackled on a regional basis. certainly, insofar as the international community attempts to help, we must coordinate our strategies for the horn of africa and the sahel regions of africa, on both of which i have written reports for this parliament this year. i also drafted the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs on south sudan. i repeat my call on the south sudanese government to respect the rule of law and to devote its efforts to strengthening democratic institutions, tackling widespread corruption and, of course, improving relations with its neighbour to the north, sudan. for this reason, i called for the full implementation of the comprehensive peace agreement (cpa), and for the two sides to come together in a spirit of partnership and reconciliation to address in particular the issues of debt-sharing and oil revenues, given that production of oil generates the vast majority of the national budget and disputes over ownership and pipelines could yet lead to fresh conflict between the two countries, potentially exacerbated by the apparently ethnic and religious-based clashes that are driving (mainly christian) refugees into the south. we must do all that we can to nurture the enthusiasm in this new country and deploy all the eu’s resources and instruments available to help integrate it into a global community of free, democratic and prosperous states.
in writing. − this report provides an important opportunity to review the status of south sudan and the problems it faces and to assess too how the eu can strengthen its efforts to assist it in its development. i support the new strategy and the priorities that have been outlined for the eu within this report and i therefore voted in favour of its adoption today.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it does not take into account the fact that energy efficiency and clean vehicles are a positive competitive and economic factor for industry as well as for consumers and the environment. we need to be encouraging energy-efficient vehicles as well as working on extending transport networks to ensure more people can take advantage of public transport. i have been contacted recently about developing the electric car industry in wales, as they did in the basque country, and i hope this will create extra jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the automotive industry is very important to the uk and other eu member states. however, it is facing a difficult time and the commission has suggested an action plan which would stimulate investment and improve competitiveness. the report aims to boost jobs and growth, which is a key strategy of the labour plan for europe, therefore i support it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as i recognise the important role the automotive industry plays in the european economy and support the commissionʼs strategy in reversing its declining market share.
in writing. − i am fully supportive of the automotive industry and the strong role it plays in driving growth in our economies, particularly within the uk where currently british manufacturers are enjoying a welcome period of sustained growth. however i have reservations as to whether some of the measures outlined in this report would provide the right support for our automotive industry and i therefore opted to abstain on this report.
in writing. − the automotive sector in wales includes 200 companies and has an annual turnover of more than gbp 3 billion. not only do 40 international automotive companies base part of their supply chain in wales, there are also very strong research and development links with welsh universities, with the cetics centres of excellence programme boosting welsh competitiveness in the car industry. to support this very important part of the welsh economy, i have voted in favour of ‘cars 2020: towards a strong, competitive and sustainable european car industryʼ. i encourage increased investment in advanced technologies and financing innovation, as well as active improvement of market conditions both internally and externally. i hope that this report will be part of a continued, strengthened relationship between europe and the automotive sector.
mr president, i am glad that this house has adopted the alternative resolution and rejected the estrela report. in its original state this report was disrespectful to this house and the fundamental principle of subsidiarity, but that disrespect was minor compared to the lack of respect, care and humanity showed towards the unborn child. i make no apology for rejecting any suggestion that abortion is a human right. the overarching human right in this debate for me is the right to life of the unborn child: that must be protected. furthermore i deplore the attempts to remove the right to conscientious objection for those in our health service. to demand of any individual an act that is so fundamentally against what they believe – often belief shaped by faith – is a violation of the right to religious freedom and indeed would result in such practitioners being excluded from aspects of the medical profession. ultimately these are matters that should be left for member states to decide upon. i know the vast majority of people in my constituency of northern ireland want their local politicians to lead in this matter – and certainly not ms estrela.
mr president, the strength of feeling provoked today by this report was evident during the plenary vote where the intolerance by ms estrela of dissent or differing views on this side of the house was fortunately firmly rejected by this parliament. it is wholly accurate to label the estrela report as being contrary to the eu’s motto of unity and diversity, i.e. a respect for subsidiarity and in particular respecting the moral values of individuals in their countries, and particularly the issue of conscience over abortion issues and the right to object to performing abortions. i, as a doctor, feel particularly strongly about that. member states retain sovereignty rightly over such issues and it is regrettable that this report neglected to respect this fact. i was very pleased that the ecr-epp alternative report prevailed over the intolerant estrela one, which was firmly rejected, reminding those that wish to seek reform in such areas that a compulsory, top-down eu diktat is not the way to effect changes in areas that are intrinsically about morals, religious beliefs, conscience and values. this is something for our societies to deliberate on through their national parliaments, and it is not, and never should be, an eu competence.
in writing. − i voted against the alternative motions for resolution as proposed by the ecr/epp which makes reference to the cairo icpd programme of action which considers that reproductive health care should include the ‘prevention of abortion’. sinn féin believes that the option of a termination should be available where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of a pregnant woman, including where she is suicidal, that would only be averted by an abortion, and in the case of rape or incest. we voted against the extension of the 1967 act to the north of ireland when it was proposed in the assembly. we support the introduction of legislation in the 26 counties in line with the x case and we have called for the immediate introduction of guidance for medical professionals in the 6 counties. reproductive rights can refer to a range of services covering maternal, post natal, menopausal, reproductive cancers and fertility treatments. it is my party’s and my own view that women should not be denied access to such services. i was prepared to vote in line with party policy on all aspects of the estrela report; however, the report was not voted.
in writing. − i supported this report and so i voted against the ppe/ecr resolution which totally amended the content. however, that resolution was adopted by parliament. sexual and reproductive health and rights are an essential element of human dignity, and quality sexual and reproductive health services should be provided without discrimination. i regret that this statement was not made by parliament and so do the constituents in wales who contacted me.
in writing. − i voted against both of the alternative motions to this report. i find it deeply hypocritical that we are willing to engage in supporting these vital services to those in other parts of the world but are not willing to consider their role in our own member states. there was much lobbying on the original report and much of that lobbying was either ill-informed or deliberately misleading and sensationalist. this parliament has, rightly, spent time legislating to protect children and young people from abuse, but they need to know how to protect themselves and that is why sex education is important. no one has been advocating abortion as a form of contraception – indeed, it is often a failure of contraception which raises the issue. however, we know from years of experience that the availability of safe abortion is better than the backstreet alternative. no one in this house has advocated compulsory termination of pregnancy, yet those of us who wished to support the original committee on women’s rights report have been accused of that. i believe the success of the epp/ecr motion is a retrograde step for this house – hence my vote against their motion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that parliament sets out its position on sexual health and reproductive rights. i think it is very important that we protect these rights, not just for women, but also for men. it is an issue everyone is affected by and parliament can play an important role in representing the broad european view on the matter. this report also respects subsidiarity and does not try to interfere with member statesʼ competencies in this policy area.
in writing. − on behalf of the uk conservative delegation we were pleased to be able to support an alternative motion for a resolution on the report on sexual and reproductive health and rights. the uk conservative delegation recognises that there were a number of valuable suggestions in the report relating to the protection of womenʼs rights and the equal treatment of gay, lesbian and transgender people. however the report went too far in prescribing compulsory sex education for primary school children; it was highly critical of national parliamentsʼ budgets in the area of sexual and reproductive health and rights, and called for a number of prescriptive measures to be put in place with regards to contraception, abortion and family planning. the uk conservative delegation firmly believes that it is not the role of the eu to dictate to member states, to women and to parents on these specific and highly controversial issues and so we supported the ppe/ecr alternative motion for a resolution which clearly notes that policies relating to sexual reproductive rights and sex education are the competency of each member state and not of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i support the promotion of reproductive health.
in writing. − this report covers a large number of very important issues, however many of them fall beyond the legal remit of the eu. many of the issues considered in this report are matters for individual member states to address and such member state competence must be respected; therefore on these subsidiarity grounds, i voted instead for the alternative ecr/ppe resolution today.
in writing. − the estrela report addresses the reproductive processes, functions and systems at all stages in life, and implies that people are able to have responsible, satisfying and safe sex. this includes the capability to reproduce, as well as control over if and when this happens. it reinforces the right to be informed and to have access to affordable treatment and healthcare services, and enables women to go through pregnancy and childbirth as safely as possible. i voted in favour of this report, because i believe in access to reproductive health and rights, without any discrimination. i support the ratification of the rights of lgbt people, and am pleased to see the importance of non-discrimination based on sexual orientation being acknowledged at a european level. i was very disappointed that the estrela report was rejected, after lack of support from the conservatives.
in writing. − i supported this report, which calls for protection from discrimination and equal sexual and reproductive rights for all. the report proposes measures to ensure that people are informed and that they have access to affordable treatment and healthcare services that will allow people to practice safe sex and will enable women to decide freely if and how often they wish to have children. i am disappointed that a campaign of misinformation led to this report being rejected by a majority in parliament.
in writing. − the 2011 european year of volunteering was a success in increasing the recognition of volunteering, through initiatives and activities organised at member state level. many people, young and old, in wales benefit from volunteering, gaining valuable work experience or personal experiences. there are also those that benefit from much needed support through others volunteering. nevertheless, volunteering should not be used by government to replace paid employment. i condemn the practise of employers taking advantage of trainees and volunteers instead of paying them to do the work. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − volunteering and voluntary activity is one of the mainstays of a functioning society. the goodwill and generosity of spirit required to volunteer, usually to assist the most vulnerable, reflects on the society in which we live. i am delighted to say that my own constituency has a proud tradition of voluntary activity, with the work of organisations like volunteer now and community ni carrying on these practices. nevertheless, i believe this report, while a well-intentioned follow-up to the european year of volunteering (eyv) 2011, will be an ineffective means of supporting voluntary activity. unfortunately, this report does not fully respect the principle of subsidiarity, as it suggests providing compulsory insurance cover for volunteers and the establishment of a european volunteering development fund. in my view, volunteering and voluntary activity should remain a member state competence. in essence i feel that local organisations in my own constituency of northern ireland, with their expertise and knowledge of the voluntary sector, are in the position to take decisions. while i support europe-wide efforts to promote volunteering and voluntary activity in the wake of eyv 2011, volunteering should not be managed at eu level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as i support the promotion and development of volunteering and voluntary work throughout the european union.
in writing. − volunteering is a fantastic way to make an active contribution to your community and an important practice that we must encourage, not just as a citizenship tool, but also as a means for achieving personal or professional development. however, i do have reservations with regard to some proposals within this report, which i feel do not fully respect the competences of the member states.
in writing. − the volunteering and voluntary activity in europe own initiative report summarises the implementation of the 2011 european year of volunteering. i was pleased to see the positive changes in the volunteering environment at both european and national level, which in some cases has led to the adoption or modification of volunteering strategies and legislation in member states. i welcome the call for the adoption of a european statue for voluntary organisations and am pleased to see that the difficulties faced by ngos during times of austerity are being acknowledged at a european level. i hope that my vote in favour of this report will be a step towards a more socially inclusive europe.
yesterday the president announced an interpretation of rule 202(5) proposed by the committee on constitutional affairs. pursuant to rule 211, as no opposition to this interpretation has been received, it is hereby deemed approved.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the outcome of the vilnius summit and the future of the eastern partnership, in particular as regards ukraine (2013/2983(rsp)).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the important documents signed at the vilnius summit have been somewhat overshadowed by the important documents unsigned. what we see in kiev and other cities is almost as momentous as what we saw there ten years ago. it is the undeniable will of the people for a european future. i wish we saw a similar passion among the peoples of the european union, who frequently take the security that membership brings for granted. liberals welcome the high representative’s timely visit to the ukraine. we hope she will make clear to the government how much we deplore police brutality against the demonstrators. we hope she will work with the authorities to help the country find its way forward. we hope she will consider appointing a mediator to bring together government, opposition and civil society. her message to president yanukovych should be clear: it takes a great man to be a good listener. a great man listens to his people and does not silence them. a great man mediates between the different forces of society to prevent violence. a great man thinks twice before overriding the will of parliament in the documents that he signs. but i hope too that we will allow ourselves some self-criticism. mr kwasniewski, who has longstanding experience, recently suggested that we may have been naive in our dealings with the east, and we should reflect on that. if we want the association agreements to work, we must be more constructive, more flexible, more issue-focused. we must speak more openly about the elephant in the room – the russian federation – and we should look, as i hope the commission and the eeas will, at sending a fully-fledged mission to kiev to negotiate a way forward to secure that country’s european future.
i have had a very large number of requests for catch the eye and strictly speaking we are only required to take five speakers. i have therefore taken 10 speakers, twice the number, and i have selected them on the basis of the size of the political group and the geographical spread, respecting the order in which i was asked for the floor. catch-the-eye procedure
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − madam president, as elected representatives, we have an extremely important role to play to ensure eu development aid is fully accounted for. the importance of equality between the eu’s colegislators during the decision-making process is not negotiable. the programming of a eur 20 billion aid package has to be transparent and accountable. i would like to remind the council in particular that parliament is here to monitor and check the way we spend our taxpayers’ money in terms of international development. i am shocked that the council opposed parliamentary scrutiny of this area of activity. voters should be told, and they will be told. i fully welcome and support the fact that the development cooperation instrument will place a greater focus on the poorest countries than the current dci does. accountability and transparency, poverty reduction and wealth creation are our co-policies. this parliamentary achievement restores democratic accountability. colleagues: well done! council: shame on you!
blue-card question. – mr kelam, do you consider that the eu and the hard-pressed eu taxpayer can afford all this elaborate expenditure that is being proposed, or does the concept of affordability simply not exist in your world?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the path to eu accession is difficult, both politically and economically and, with the exception of iceland and turkey, all of the accession countries that have recently joined emerged from communist systems that severely limited access to the market economy and, therefore, prosperity and which institutionalised authoritarian government. it is therefore unreasonable to expect them all to attain all of the standards set by the eu in the accession criteria, without any outside financial help. in my group, the ecr, we are clear that the eu single market, for instance, benefits both the candidates or neighbourhood countries and the eu itself, and therefore we must devote ourselves to deploying the necessary instruments and resources in a cost-efficient way in order to realise some of these ambitions. on a recent visit to montenegro, which i am the standing rapporteur for and which is an eu accession country/candidate, i saw how eu epa money is being used to fund important civil society projects designed to improve the transparency and accountability of government and the judiciary in particular. clearly, this represents an important step towards realising the reforms necessary for that country’s eventual accession. certainly, in the light of the debacle before vilnius now being over, and with first armenia pulling out and then, far more seriously, ukraine, we must pay closer attention to the political as well as financial aspects of the external instruments. russia is happy to bully, intimidate and bribe its former soviet satellites into rejecting eu trade agreements and therefore there must be a real debate now about what kind of hardball strategy could be deployed to counter this unacceptable behaviour. nobody is advocating a return to the cold war, but we must be prepared to offer countries such as ukraine, georgia and armenia sensible and generous packages, within the current budgetary constraints of course, including access to imf soft loans, to enable them to implement the necessary reforms. as the unrest in kiev demonstrates, people in the former eastern bloc countries are calling for stronger euro-atlantic partnerships and we in the eu must do all that we can, and can afford to do, to help achieve this objective.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, in foreign policy, in iraq, in libya, in syria, there was no consensus, no consensus at all, amongst the member states. yet again we see an eu activity that is wasteful, contemptuous of the taxpayer (as my colleague who has left his place was earlier) and duplicates what is already being performed and better executed – and this is the key point – at the national level. nevertheless, to give just one example, the european union is now operating an incredible 140 embassies or equivalent, and this costs a lot. to make matters worse, the value of the salary package of up to 500 of the personnel is greater than that received by the british prime minister. this is all a gravy train for those who work in it, with no real positive, realistic function, and i feel sure that electorate will come to the same conclusion in may of next year.
madam president, we have the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide but toleration of political repression at home in the eu, selective registration of european parties, party bans and attempted bans on fabricated evidence, the arrest of opposition mps on trumped-up charges, prosecution meaning even imprisonment for heretical opinion, and even thought crime. can democracy and human rights be implanted and nurtured even in unpromising soil? it is difficult to prevent it from being corrupted and undermined even in its ancestral home. countries with strong vertical divisions have difficulty in making it work. in countries with inflexible and intolerant religious ideologies, democracy can bring social repression for women and religious minorities. it is often thought that social liberalism and observance of human rights complement democracy. however, sometimes politically repressive regimes are socially liberal. there are indispensable social preconditions for democracy to develop and survive but they cannot be bought and paid for from outside.
madam president, i welcome the eur 1 billion we are tonight committing to the european initiative for democracy and human rights, and i particularly welcome the new mechanism to provide urgent protection to human rights defenders. they put their own lives at risk defending what are our rights and it is right that we back up our own guidelines with even more concrete action. the political challenges in implementing this instrument are:one, for the commission to have the political will and our political support to take risks by targeting the greatest need. this is not a fund with which to play safe. two, for human rights to be mainstreamed in the other external instruments and i welcome this requirement in the horizontal implementing rules. it can never be in the interests of human development for human rights to be violated. and three, this parliament has a serious role of oversight in relation to the implementing measures. i only regret that the government of my own country, the united kingdom, objected to the development cooperation instrument, apparently putting its desire to limit the actions of the european union above the common objectives of combating poverty in the world. finally, i would like to send a message of support to the eu-ngo forum on human rights taking place as we speak and welcome that this parliament has used our influence to ensure even more civil society participation in the new programme.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, on behalf of the ecr group let me congratulate my friend pán kukan on his comprehensive report on human rights in the world. i join colleagues in endorsing the bulk of this year’s report, which outlines the potentially beneficial role played by the external action service amongst other things, in addition to the perennial human rights probes we face in north korea, iran, china, zimbabwe, belarus and russia – particularly russia with the ongoing shameful magnitsky case and the khodorkovsky prolonged incarceration, for instance. the ecr is committed to improving democracy and human rights both within the eu and outside of it. i recently authored a human rights report on the sahel in western sahara, where i made clear the importance of civic, political, cultural and minority rights, in addition to the importance of linking human rights with developmental policies. as ever, the debate will continue about what constitutes a human right and, as such, i have misgivings about the term universality. all human rights originate in a specific time and cultural context. for instance, i distinguish between fundamental civil and political rights versus the social-economic rights favoured by the left of this house. sometimes we must accept that simply because we do approve of a certain cultural practice, such as levirate or sororate marriages in parts of africa and the middle east, it does not necessarily constitute a breach of human rights. human rights policy must be aimed at helping those most vulnerable, with the least heard voices, live the lives that they have freely chosen without harming others. we must continue to work with the eu instruments and with all our international partners in the democratic world to ensure that this may, some day, become a reality for all on this planet.
mr president, congratulations to my friend and colleague mr kukan on the annual human rights report. as a fellow rapporteur on eu enlargement, i welcome his emphasis this year on human rights in europe’s enlargement and neighbourhood policies and i give my full support to his call for europe to develop a dedicated policy on transitional justice. on the day this parliament voted the agreement with canada, i am proud we resisted the pressure and insisted on a human rights clause in every eu trade agreement, but on the day this parliament voted down the resolution on sexual health rights i regret the message that ʻclairement les droits des femmes n’étaient pas les droits des hommesʼ. as the socialist human rights coordinator, i ask parliament to support our amendments calling for a mechanism for targeted sanctions, expressing concern about the use of military drones and condemning violations of the rights of lgbt people. i also endorse our call in paragraph 72 for those responsible for the mass graves in kashmir to be brought to justice and, after the championing of the un guiding principles and the participation in last week’s un forum on business and human rights, our resolution tonight reiterates the demand for an eu report on their implementation by member states. i urge agreement with the current commission proposal on non-financial reporting by companies to give real effect to that commitment and i thank sincerely special representative lambrinidis for his personal commitment in this matter. finally, i join with the president-in-office and my friend, ms koppa, to recall on the day that we celebrate the life of nelson mandela that those who question human rights question his values when he said: ʻto deny people their human rights is to challenge their very humanityʼ.
mr president, i would like to start by thanking mr kukan for incorporating my amending paragraph. if it were not for the amendments in addition to paragraph 72, i am afraid that kashmir and the plight of kashmiris would have been completely omitted from this report. it is this house, out of the eu institutions, that keeps the suffering of the kashmiri people on the agenda. it is not the council, it is not the commission. i am afraid that our flag ought to represent something for which we can be proud – and in many instances it does – but, when it comes to the issue of kashmir, it represents nothing other than double standards. that is something that i am afraid the people of kashmir will remind us about one day. i welcome mr stavros lambrinidis to the chamber today. turning to the plight of christian minorities, both he and i heard directly from coptic christian minorities in egypt about the suffering that they are having to face today. the plight of so many people like them is now becoming so desperate, but yet we as a union are simply not doing what is necessary to help alleviate the problems they are suffering.
on behalf of the efd group. – madam president, 9 000 people in ireland – at dell, waterford crystal and elsewhere – will be grateful for the globalisation adjustment fund, helping with guidance, training and education, when their firms close. some blame cheap chinese goods, produced through low wages, but two years ago in this house a commission statement denied that this was true. the commissioner said that it was china having its own central bank, setting its own interest rates and relating to world conditions so that exchange rates are helpful, resulting in goods at prices other people can afford. instead, we have draconian measures in place to prevent individual companies establishing their own exchange rates and competing globally, promoting prosperity. at the same time, report after report comes out of this house, all imposing more regulation. the result? higher costs, reduced sales, firms closing and moving abroad, leading to rising unemployment. and all you do is wheel out the globalisation adjustment fund, trying to conceal the fact that company after company is closing under the weight of eu inflicted regulation, when you cannot even keep well-established companies going. and you call that world leadership?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we have talked about economic policy many times in this chamber so, this morning, i want to concentrate on defence policy because, when it comes to defence in europe, the right approach in my view should be one of cooperation, capability and compatibility. and that is the approach that europe has developed for over 60 years under the nato umbrella. nato is a tried and tested alliance, and yet many here are seeking to undermine it with more eu bureaucracy through the csdp. they seek to duplicate its roles in order to create an eu army through the back door. and yes, of course, we all recognise that nato needs to modernise. when it was first formed in 1949, its first secretary-general said, and i quote, that its role was: ʻto keep the russians out, to keep the americans in and the germans downʼ. the challenges of the 21st century are, of course, very different to those in 1949. however, natoʼs strength, ultimately, is the transatlantic security relationship that it embodies. we still need in my view to keep the americans in. european and north american cooperation is as relevant today as it has ever been. unfortunately under president obama, the so-called pacific president, the usa in my view is in danger of turning its strategic focus to its western coast. we are pushing them away and some may argue that the only solution therefore is to form a common european defence, but such a plan is flawed on many levels. firstly of course, european countries simply do not have the resources. nato spends around usd 1 trillion on defence. two thirds of that comes from the us. of the remaining one third spent by eu states, 70% is spent by just four: the uk, france, germany and italy. there would not be a european defence because so few countries are actually doing the heavy lifting. and yet even if we add up our total eu-wide spending, it pales into insignificance in comparison to that of the us. secondly of course, european countries are not going to hand over command and control of their assets to an eu operational headquarters. europeʼs biggest defence power is certainly not going to do so and it has already vetoed such an hq. so we are left with a de facto intergovernmental arrangement where countries cooperate and pledge to defend each otherʼs interests, which sounds to me an awful lot like nato. yet through this duplication of effort, we reduce the resources available for already overstretched military capability. these are resources we could spend on hardware and training rather than on playing with toy soldiers. but the most important consideration lies with our troops themselves. i am sure that everyone in this house has the utmost respect for their own countryʼs armed forces and i pay tribute to those from mine. the bravery and heroism of british troops is marvellous. these people fight for their flag, for their country and, from my country, for their queen. do we honestly believe that those same people would have the willingness to fight and possibly pay the ultimate sacrifice for the european flag? i think not. european countries already have a long and valuable history of bilateral and multilateral cooperation and this should be continued. of course we have to work together wherever possible. strategic deficiencies will be overcome through this approach which is already embodied in natoʼs smart defence initiative. in the recent mali mission for example, uk transport planes were deployed to assist with lifting french assets alongside uk surveillance planes. but those kinds of bilateral cooperative measures do not need a new bureaucracy at eu level in order to implement them. they just need the willpower of the states concerned. that will power has not always been forthcoming across all eu member states; nothing illustrated this point more forcefully than the division caused by the iraq war a decade ago. regardless of the rights and wrongs of that conflict, it showed very vividly why national independence is critical to so many states. in these challenging times we cannot afford to run two defence organisations in brussels. we have one very successful one already. it has kept the peace for 60 years in europe. it embodies the transatlantic security relationship and it still represents our best hope for security in the 21st century. every step we take towards a european common defence, the usa takes one step away from nato. in an age when rising economic powers are not always liberal democratic states, we must remain absolutely and resolutely united across the atlantic. the eu needs to learn the lessons of the euro crisis. we must stop rushing into creating the trappings of european statehood. instead we should focus practically on what actually works, not on creating new bureaucracies just for the sake of it. nato works. let us stick with it and stop this vain attempt to create a european army through the back door. when it comes to defence in europe, the right approach should be one of cooperation, capability and compatibility, as i said at the start.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, i know it is seasonal to talk about the 12 days of christmas, but i want to talk about the 21-day count down to the opening of the doors to 29 million poor people from romania and bulgaria. it does, i think, mark a pivotal moment in british politics. very often in britain, meps complain that they do not have a high enough profile with the public. i want to try and change that today because brigadier geoffrey van orden sitting behind me here, british conservative, was the rapporteur, the sponsor for bulgaria joining the european union and for us having a total open door to all of those people. so well done, brigadier, i want all the british people to know who you are and what your achievements are and of course what free movement means – it means free health care; it means free education; it means free access to the benefit system; it means an open door to the criminal gangs and the modern day fagins who will of course benefit from the fact that london is the most successful and wealthy international city in europe. already the situation is so bad that 92% of atm crime in london last year was committed by romanians. i am not scapegoating in any way and i know that a lot of people that come from bulgaria and romania will be very decent people who want to work hard and want to better their lives, but free movement does not work in the european union now that we have countries that are poor. for a man that comes from bucharest and works in london and gets child benefit for the two children back home: that child benefit is worth more than he can actually earn doing a menial job in bucharest and that is the reason why the numbers that come to britain will indeed be absolutely enormous. i have said for some time, and now the british people agree, enough is enough. 80% of the british people do not want those borders to come down in 21 days’ time. it is unfair. it is unfair on working people. it is leading to lower wages. it is leading to higher youth unemployment and it is leading to divided communities. but of course it does not end here, because our prime minister, mr cameron, with the full support of labour and the lib dems, now wants to extend this principle of open borders, as he says himself, from the atlantic to the urals. so it means countries like kazakhstan, indeed the ukraine, joining the european union. i see that tony blair is now helping albania join the european union. well good luck to them with that. we even want to extend it to turkey joining the european union. our message is that a turkey is just for christmas; it is not for political union; we do not want open borders. and, mr cameron, do not, next week at the summit, surrender in any way to deeper european military integration. many in this room would have bombed syria had europe had that capability. thank god it did not. on open doors, on european armies, the voters will have their say next may, and i think there is going to be a radical change. i think there is going to be an earthquake in british politics next may. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr farage, you claim – or you imply – that you are against immigration. on 4 may 2010, on the daily politics show, you said that britain should issue 250 000 work permits each year. just now, you referred to romanians being responsible for atm crime in london. in fact, you could be more specific. they were romanian citizens of roma origin.
blue-card answer. – mr brons, thank you for the question. can i make something clear to you? ukip is not against immigration. we welcome immigration. we want immigration; but we want an immigration system based, as the australian one is, on saying we want people who have got skills to bring to our country. we do not want people who have got life-threatening diseases. we do not want people who have got criminal records – though of course in australia, in the old days, that was a prerequisite – and we want to make our own decisions on who comes to britain. we are not discriminatory, we are not scapegoating, we just want to control our own borders and live in our own democracy and we cannot do that as members of this european union.
blue-card question. – mr brok, you used the phrase that was translated as ‘the european union developing capabilities’ several times. does this mean that you want to see a european army, a european navy, a european airforce?
mr president, this house should welcome the belated commitment of the european council to craft a common security and defence policy. that policy should build on the good work of the council’s political and security committee. its success will be founded less on the bricks and mortar of a military hq than on the building blocks and cement of a shared purpose. a credible and effective policy will be anchored in the building of a technological and industrial base, using horizon 2020 funds. it will use the tools of finance, trade, development aid and justice. it will reshape nato by rebalancing the transatlantic alliance through a trade and investment partnership. a maritime security strategy, a cyber-defence policy and a satellite system must be priorities. as for drones, let us ask first how much they really enhance the security of the usa. the european council should not relegate energy policy to the status of a footnote. the switch from fossil fuels to clean energy is essential for security against the impact of climate change and for independence from russia. the council would be wise not to follow mr swoboda’s advice. mr swoboda attacked commissioner rehn for his policy aimed at balancing europe’s books. would the socialist policy be to further burden our member states with debt service payments, to condemn our children to the debts of their parents, to apply to europe the policies of gordon brown and zapatero and hollande? mr swoboda, in that case liberals relish the forthcoming election campaign.
mr president, next week’s european council has long been trailered in brussels as a ‘defence council’ to take some great leap forward in common security and defence policy, and we have heard this morning already the usual sort of mantras at great length from the council and the commission, but as far as i can see the actual defence content next week, apart from a list of homework for the commission, is going to be very modest. whatever decisions there are, they were nodded through by education and sports ministers at their council meeting on 25 november. my question to the council and the commission is: what important decision on defence is actually going to be taken by heads of government at the council next week? i believe in fact that on common security and defence policy the tide has now begun to turn – in capitals at least, although i think we still live in a sort of wonderland world in this chamber. among the european powers there is now no appetite for an ambitious eu military policy. the emphasis has shifted quite rightly to civil activities in terms of crisis prevention, humanitarian assistance and post-conflict reconstruction. many of us have long campaigned for just such a shift so that the european union might actually do something useful in terms of complementing, rather than trying to imitate, nato’s military muscle. it has been a long haul to get to this position. we have seen the european union try to place its institutional footprint on an increasing range of defence-related activities, wastefully duplicating staff and structures already very well established at nato. few csdp missions stand up to critical scrutiny. most of them, as it happens, were civilian. as one top american general put it, ‘the eu installed the plumbing, but there isn’t any water’.
mr president, well, here we are still in very great economic hardship across the continent, and what does the european union decide to discuss at the top of the agenda for a council meeting? defence. i would argue that across europe – not just the united kingdom – defence is way down the list of people's concerns and of what they want to discuss. they want to discuss employment, they want to discuss how much it costs them to live, growing inflation, but that is not what you want to talk about. you want to talk defence. we have heard the commission here talking about competing with the usa. why would you want to compete with the usa? we are 28 sovereign nations. there is no will, in the united kingdom at least, to be one sovereign nation called the european union. you have to have the consent of people, but you do not want that. you want to move forward in this one superstate. we should not be competing with the usa. we should be working with the usa. why do we want to reinvent the wheel? we have nato and nato is tried and tested. we need to reinvigorate nato. that is what we need to do. and employment? and the euro? you are congratulating yourself because latvia is joining. you have had sticking plaster over sticking plaster on your euro single currency and the wound has congealed, and you are putting another one on with latvia. but we all know what happens when you leave a plaster on. the wound becomes infected and when you finally have to remove that plaster, it is far more painful – and that is as good an analogy as i have for the euro. it will be a painful, slow decline and, when it finally rips apart, it will hurt and it will hurt the people of europe. stop this madness now.
mr president, the european council is set to agree a great catalogue of aspirations and intentions on security and defence, but what they could be doing – and ought to do – is taking a decision to deploy the european battlegroup in the central african republic to support french troops. i have been to see these battlegroups. they are an excellent example of military cooperation, pooling and sharing a trained network – state of the art, keen and, of course, clean, because they have never been deployed since 2005 when they were first created, subject first to a german and then to a british veto. if history is to repeat itself, they will never be deployed. next week we have a chance for a cluster of politically willing and militarily capable states to form a vanguard, to take the lead, to stop talking and start to take collective action to defend and promote the security interests of the european union.
mr president, if we are to make europe work we must show it has a very clear future role, including internationally. the eu could be a real force for peace if we address all the threats that face people. an effective security policy has to be integrated with policies on poverty, the environment, energy, trade, food and water resources and so on. we must refocus on building peace, and what better way to do that than to enhance not the military but civilian work – a civilian peace corps – to defuse tension, foster understanding and prevent conflict, working with the united nations. now is the time to invest, not in arms, but in people, especially young people, to create jobs, recover and rebuild and enable all the peoples, all the nations of europe, like wales, flanders, scotland and the basque country, to play their full part in doing that.
mr president, my message to the people of other programme countries is simple: when you are told how successful the irish programme has been, do not believe it because it is a case of not letting the truth stand in the way of a good story. mass unemployment and immigration, increased poverty and the devastation of communities and public services are the legacy of the troika, all facilitated by a government which enthusiastically embraces the cuts proposed by the commission and willingly continues the failed policy of austerity. not content with devastating the economy of ireland and other programme countries, the european council is turning its attention to destruction on a far more ambitious scale. the noises coming from this chamber about increased military spending and strengthening of the eu military capacity are truly frightening. i hope that wiser heads will prevail and that the european council avoids a headlong rush into even further militarisation of the eu.
mr president, yes, the commission wants to see more single market competition for defence procurement on the ground that fragmented markets create red tape and duplication of defence programmes. it is not fragmentation that leads to red tape; it is the eu requirement that defence contracts should be put out to tender. britain could, of course ironically, use the lisbon treaty to avoid tendering on the ground of protecting its national interest, as poland has done to its great credit. the commission will tackle what it calls market distortions, which will probably take away the rights of member states to protect their national interest in this area. defence is too important to the national interest to allow free market competition. whilst another european war is, we all hope, unthinkable, our world interests might diverge; the uk cannot be dependent for equipment procurement on states opposed, say, to our protecting the falklands from argentinian aggression.
mr president, i was really pleased to see economic and social policy included in the upcoming council summit. i hoped that, for once, europe’s leaders might be willing to sit down and discuss those measures we can take to protect and improve people’s social and working rights. but what a wasted opportunity to deal with some of the real problems around the posted workers directive. in recent years the loopholes within the directive have been widened even further by extremely unhelpful court rulings, allowing unscrupulous employers to take advantage by exploiting posted workers and undercutting domestic standards. this week was a perfect opportunity to show people that we are serious about stopping social dumping and making freedom of movement fair for all. instead we have an agreement that simply fails to fix the problems. articles 9 and 12 of the council agreement bring less legal certainty and completely fail to deal with the issues of the subcontracting chain, instead, using vague terms like ‘justified’ and ‘proportionate’. so please excuse me if i sound cynical and pessimistic about the discussions at the upcoming summit. the encouraging words we are likely to get this week on jobs, growth and taxation may sound positive, but the council needs to act decisively on posted workers. it is actions that count, not rhetoric.
madam president, i asked for a check on amendment 20. i called for it but you did not hear me. from our point of view in the house there was a majority in favour so could you please check amendment 20.
madam president, i would not detain the house unless it was something of the utmost seriousness. yesterday during the vote on the estrela report i was recorded as voting in favour of the epp amendment, despite the fact that i voted against. it has come to my attention that another member had a similar experience. therefore, could i ask the services to carry out a thorough investigation to reassure ourselves that our voting system is properly recording the votes of the members? (applause)
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the economic crisis has revealed serious shortcomings in the european statistical system. it is my view that there has always been too little attention given to social and environmental indicators. statistics are essential. for example, west wales and the valleys is one of the poorest regions in the eu, and it is eu data and statistics that have highlighted how serious the problem is and the need for urgent action by the welsh government.
madam president, another international bureaucracy is generating more self-justifying regulation. that is what they do: dogs bark, ducks quack and global technocracies justify their existence with new laws. what is really interesting about this ilo process, though, is that we are seeing at an early stage the way in which eu directives often have their genesis in global regulations. this is significant because we are always being told that our member states need to be in the european union in order to have influence. but in practical terms what you find is that, as in this case with the ilo, you have the eu being a single block and then norway, switzerland and so on having independent voices around that table. we would have far more influence in practical terms on the resulting directives and regulations if we had not subcontracted out our negotiation to the european commission. in the meantime, of course, the best thing we could do for workers around the world is to give them more jobs. the way of doing that is for governments to get out of the way; governments never expedited anything but by the alacrity with which they stepped aside.
in writing. − the ilo convention concerning decent work for domestic workers is a major step forward and a key success in protecting a very vulnerable group of workers. domestic workers are hidden from public view and control. they are predominantly migrant, female and low-skilled and are at a very high risk of exploitation and even slave-like working condtions. this convention ensures that the most vulnerable are covered by core labour standards. i therefore voted in favour of this report in the interests of my constituents in wales
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as i support the rights of domestic workers and recognise the need to put measures in place to prevent discrimination, violence and child labour.
in writing. − as a labour mep, i believe in protecting the rights of the workforce throughout the eu. this is why i have voted in favour of the international labour organisation convention concerning decent work for domestic workers. i fully support the establishment of a minimum age for domestic work, as well as safeguards for workers under the age of 18. i am pleased to see proposals which will help combat abuse and violence at work, as well as ensuring that fair terms and decent conditions of employment are met. i hope that this convention is a step towards a more fair and safe employment culture within the european union.
in writing. − with our history of internationalism, wales has always taken a keen interest in developing links with countries across the globe. i voted in favour of this report which will permit the gradual opening of or reinforced participation in certain eu programmes for armenia. this will offer an opportunity to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, enhancing people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, in addition to strengthening political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of this protocol, which will facilitate the participation of armenia in certain union programmes. i hope that this agreement will serve to strengthen the links that have already been developed via the eastern partnership and european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. it is vital that we strengthen current mechanisms and practices in order to ensure better, more effective coordination of development aid between member states, to ensure that aid reaches those who need it. i welcome the fact that the report calls for a new binding coordination; this is because the current non-binding voluntary approach has led to limited results. my constituents in wales contact me very often concerned about what aid is being provided to countries in need.
in writing. − i voted for this report as more regulation on the coordination of development aid will reduce aid fragmentation, increase aid effectiveness and efficiency, and save billions of euros.
in writing. − i support efforts being made within this report to achieve more effective eu coordination on development aid. whilst i am not fully convinced of the merits of another regulation and would prefer to see tools that already exist in this area strengthened, i do welcome this effort to generate more effective and efficient eu development spending.
in writing. − as a british mep this is an issue that will have particular resonance for many of my constituents, as it has been the cause of much debate in the uk over the past few years. the uk in 2013 became one of only six countries to meet the target of contributing 0.7 % of its gdp to international development – a target originally set by the un in the 1970s. the uk, with an aid budget of nearly gbp 10 billion, boasts the world’s second largest international development budget. this money contributes to both bilateral and multilateral projects, many of the latter at eu level. since the coalition government came to power in 2010, the uk has sought to rationalise its budget, and has reviewed the list of recipient countries to reflect the needs and changes in the world’s present global situation. at a time of budget balancing, all areas of wastage need to be eradicated and i welcome the principles behind this report. its proposal to adopt further regulation, however, seems unnecessary, not to mention potentially counter-productive. instead, more needs to be done to increase and strengthen cooperation using existing tools and voluntary mechanisms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of phil wynn owen’s candidacy as i support his nomination to the european court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of alex brenninkmeijer’s candidacy as i support his nomination to the european court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of henri grethen’s candidacy as i support his nomination to the european court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of nikolaos milionis’ candidacy as i support his nomination to the european court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of ms danièle lamarque’s candidacy as i support her nomination to the european court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it calls for the creation of a common implementation rules (cir) regulation which will cover horizontal and common elements of all the external financing instruments between 2014 and 2020.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it encourages the creation of a strategic tool designed to address a number of global security and development challenges.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the european neighbourhood instrument. cross-border and trans-regional cooperation is essential for us in wales and we have had much success in joint working, with irish partners in particular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i support eu cooperation with our southern and eastern neighbours.
in writing. − today i voted in favour of the instrument for pre-accession assistance. the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) is the means by which the eu supports reforms in the ‘enlargement countries’ with financial and technical help. the ipa funds build up the capacities of the countries throughout the accession process, resulting in progressive, positive developments in the region. i was in favour of this because i believe that eu pre-accession funds make political and economic reform easier in the beneficiary countries and prepare them for the rights and obligations that come with eu membership. with the eu’s help, citizens in the enlargement region can enjoy better opportunities and overall conditions. their countries can develop the same standards we enjoy as citizens of the eu. the pre-accession funds also help the eu reach its own objectives regarding a sustainable economic recovery, energy supply, transport, the environment and climate change. i believe that this is a sound investment in the future.
in writing. − i voted for this report as the new instrument will promote enhanced cooperation between the eu and industrialised and other high-income countries.
madam president, all of us here value and support human rights, but people are deeply concerned about excessive rights for criminals, murderers and terrorists. the european court of human rights, across the water over here, wants the uk to give the vote to prisoners, and in the eu we have the fundamental charter of human rights, under lisbon, and the havoc caused in trade deals as a result of it. at the same time, the eu is supporting edward snowden, who is a traitor in the us. and in this report we have the european instrument for democracy and human rights. it has a budget of over a billion euros and what is it doing? well, it spent usd 2.6 million in the usa to oppose the death penalty. that is a matter for america, not the eu. the eu must stop trying to run the world when it cannot even get its own accounts signed off. i oppose yet more eu waste.
in writing. − i voted for this report as human rights and democratic values have to be promoted worldwide and this report calls for the creation of a new financing instrument that will help fund and promote human rights and democracy worldwide between 2014-2020.
in writing. − i voted against the harkin report on the european globalisation adjustment fund 2014-2020 because, while it is purportedly designed to show solidarity towards workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, it is not an efficient and systematic instrument to reduce the impact of the economic crisis. it has never functioned properly, it has lived too long already and should be shut down, not extended.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because this fund is a very important one for helping workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it provides skills to adapt to a changing employment market and ready workers for new, decent employment opportunities.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the egf provides support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation.
in writing. − i support the continuation of eu aid to redundant workers in the next mff (2014-2020) and welcome the move to extend the fund to other categories of workers such as the self-employed and temporary agency workers. thanks to the european parliament the scope of the egf has also been extended to take into account people who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis and in certain circumstances the funding for the egf can be used for young people not in employment, education or training. egf funding has the potential to help many people who are made redundant as a result of changes in global trade patterns and those who are affected by the economic crisis and i welcome funding of over eur 1bn for this fund between 2014-2020.
in writing. − i fully support the fight against all types of tax fraud, evasion and aggressive tax planning and i appreciate the work that the oecd, the g8 and the g20 have done on a global aeoi model. however, i do object to the exclusive right given to the commission in amendment 22 as regards negotiations of agreements with third countries on aeoi on behalf of the eu. this prohibits member states from concluding any such agreements bilaterally with third countries in the area of taxation, which is not an exclusive competence of the eu.
in writing. − tax fraud and tax evasion are estimated to cost the eu economy eur 1 trillion a year and so it is clear that more needs to be done, especially at a time when eu citizens are facing higher taxes and reduced public spending. i therefore support the principle of this report, which would extend the automatic exchange of information (aeoi) on taxation between member states by increasing the categories of taxation that are subject to aeoi. however, i wanted to see the report go further and supported amendments to make exchange of information mandatory and to strengthen sanctions in cases of non-compliance. unfortunately conservative and liberal democrat meps succeeded in watering down the proposals and i therefore abstained on the final vote because i believe the report as it is will not go far enough in introducing the measures needed to fight tax evasion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is vital that we have a harmonised, united system for transporting radioactive material. although national standards play an important role, it is important in a continent like europe, where it is necessary to cross borders, that standards are harmonised across the 28 member states. this will make the transport of radioactive waste safer.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal to replace the national level registration procedures relating to carriers of radioactive materials within the eu with this system, as i am concerned that it offers no real added value and could in fact end up introducing extra bureaucratic burdens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it was a strong report that addressed many of the worst human rights abuses, which are happening all across the world. it is important that the eu considers how best to react to these situations and fulfil its unique role as a non-military power on the diplomatic world stage. i support the creation of an eu special representative for human rights, for example.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the report addresses the issue of international agreements and human rights clauses and calls for human rights impact assessments to be conducted before negotiating any bilateral or multilateral agreements with third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report today which provides an important opportunity to take stock of eu human rights policy.
in writing. − competition policy is an important part of our eu legislative framework and it is right that it is monitored annually to ensure it is supporting fully functioning markets and growth creation right across the eu. i am pleased to see today the removal of some of the elements of this report which i found problematic, such as the call for an eu public credit rating agency. overall, i now find this to be a largely positive report.
in writing. − i voted against this report because, although i appreciate that there are perhaps some potential problems for milk producers with the planned removal of milk quotas in 2015, i believe it is premature to be assigning support and financial resources to these producers. i believe we should monitor the situation and see how it evolves.
in writing. − this report analyses the effect of the end of milk quotas on disadvantaged, outermost and mountain areas. in this case i believe that, where required, we should be looking to better utilise the provisions that already exist to provide support to our farmers, instead of entailing significant additional budgetary expenditure on new measures under the cap, such as the one outlined in this report.
in writing. − i voted for the mitchell report on resilience and disaster-risk reduction (drr) in developing countries because it focuses on actions to help the most vulnerable, poorest and marginalised populations, which are the most exposed to risks, while on a broader scale targeting fragile and crisis-prone countries. the rapporteur calls for stronger efforts to be made to tackle the inefficient use of eu and member state funding for drr particularly with regard to duplication.
in writing. − i voted to support this report which focuses on the eu’s approach to building resilience and reducing disaster risk, particularly in the most vulnerable, poorest and marginalised populations where the exposure to risk is high. this report makes a number of key recommendations including a call for stronger efforts to be made to tackle the inefficient use of eu and member state funding for disaster risk reduction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is shameful that women with disabilities face greater challenges in the employment market in europe than other groups. they are being disproportionally affected by cuts in healthcare and social services and it is vital that we raise this issue and discuss it widely.
in writing. − on behalf of the uk conservative delegation we had a number of concerns regarding the report on women with disabilities. whilst the aims of the report on the whole were laudable and the uk conservative delegation would never seek to deny women, or men, with disabilities their right to equal access to public services, we believe that policy for people with disabilities must be made by national parliaments. the report unfortunately took a ‘broad-brushʼ approach to disabilities policy, as if having a disability meant just one thing when in fact disability is described as ‘a condition or function that may restrict an individual’s sensory, mental, or mobility function, to carry out or complete a task in the same way an individual without a disability canʼ. disabilities can include physical disability, sensory disability, visual impairment, hearing impairment, intellectual disability, mental health and emotional disabilities, and developmental disability; this report made no allowances for these differences. we also strongly believe that both women and men need tailored policies in order to ensure their quality of life – not just women as this report suggests. for the reasons cited above the uk conservative delegation was unable to support this report.
in writing. − this report considers the specific problems facing women and girls in the eu who have a disability. these issues are vitally important and do need to be addressed. however i feel that a large number of them would be best dealt with at individual member state level and i therefore have concerns regarding the calls this report makes for eu legislation to be proposed on a number of these issues.
in writing. − this report focuses on the discrimination that women with disabilities are facing and calls for special targets to be set to improve their quality of life. i supported this report and i believe that more should be done to address the issue in terms of unemployment, lack of education, lack of mobility etc. and also because women with disabilities are far more likely to become victims of violence, including domestic and sexual exploitation and abuse. this is especially worrying given the current economic climate where cuts in public health care and social services are having a detrimental effect on many women with disabilities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because as an own-initiative report it is supportive of the single market project and making the retail sector more competitive. this is important for scotland and will help to boost jobs and growth across the whole of the eu.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote in favour of this report, which focuses on the importance of the european union’s retail sector and calls on both the commission and the member states to give the highest prominence to this sector in light of how important it is to both the single market and the digital single market.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs starts with a number of reminders: article 3 of the treaty says we shall work for the sustainable development of europe based on balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive social market economy, full employment and social progress; article 9: the promotion of a high level of employment, guaranteed adequate social protection, fight against social exclusion, high level of education and human health, taking into account the european union policies; and article 151: the union of the member states shall have as their objective the promotion of employment, improved living and working conditions, proper social protection, and so on. but you only have to look around the european union today to see that there is a massive imbalance between the social pillar of emu and the economic pillar. therefore in our opinion we make a number of demands. in order to meet the objectives set out in article 9, we say that economic policy can no longer be considered in isolation from social policy and we therefore need to improve european social governance in ways directly comparable to the establishment of european economic governance. we call for the establishment of employment and social benchmarks, such as incoming inequality, employment and poverty, in addition to fiscal and macroeconomic benchmarks. we have seen some progress on that front as a result of the social scoreboard produced by commissioner andor at the beginning of october, but not enough. we stress the emergence, existence and aggravation of internal and external imbalances in the field of economic and social policy and the need therefore to identify automatic stabilisers that will deepen the existing multi-tier governance. we call upon the commission to produce a green paper to set out the range of such stabilisers that might be adopted and developed in the framework of multi-tiered governance. we should not shy away from treaty change, if necessary. if we do have treaty change, one of the important factors is to build in a social clause to make sure that we have a proper balance between economic freedoms and workers’ rights within the framework of the treaty.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this report poses the question as to whether we can expect all 28 member states to be able to agree upon what needs to be done to strengthen fiscal integration or whether it is now time to recognise that not all states will be able to share the same political objectives. so the strength of government of the eu becomes of paramount importance and the convention which will draw up the next treaty will be faced with a stark choice. the first of the options is to transform the commission from whatever it is now into a proper efficient parliamentary government with a greater concentration of executive powers and instruments, and the resources that it needs for their disposal. the second option is to take the route of the european council to create a sort of centralising executive federalism which will exercise its will through diffuse, opaque and only partially democratic bodies and agencies, many of them on the outside of the union framework. the first option is a genuine federal polity. the second is an intergovernmental confederal arrangement relying on the passing will of national prime ministers. the liberal group is going to be quite clear which of those options it will prefer.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this report sets out sweeping new powers for the european union. it proposes that the eu budget be substantially increased, that eu-wide taxes be introduced, that the eu should be allowed to borrow money and that member states lose almost all of their powers of veto. it is clear that this report was drawn up in the brussels bubble. it bears no relationship to what our citizens really want. it is yet another step towards ever closer political union. that may be the ambition of many members of this parliament, but it is not my goal and it is not the goal of my group. do our constituents really want us to hand over vast new powers to the commission so that it can tell national governments how much they can tax, spend and borrow? such powers undermine democracy, and we have already seen what damage this has done to greece and other countries where the troika has taken over control of their economies. very few people believe that the eu is working well. this house should accept that many member states do not believe that more europe is the answer to their problems. in the united kingdom there is a strong mood that we would like rather less europe. the eu already has too much power and interferes too much in the everyday lives of our citizens. it is too expensive and does not spend wisely the money the taxpayers send it. i want to see europe reformed. i want to see the relationship between the united kingdom and the eu changed so that powers are repatriated to our parliament in westminster. i understand that is not a popular view in this chamber and i accept that members of the eurozone need to change the way they govern their economies. if they need treaty changes to provide for closer economic integration, then non-eurozone states like britain should not stand in the way. we should cooperate to agree a new european settlement that allows member states much more flexibility in the areas in which they share sovereignty. this will mean more integration for some and less integration for others. we need to lay to rest the concept that the european union is a project in which powers can only ever flow towards the centre. those days are over.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, here is a classic example of how a subject is hidden by a committee and its rapporteurs from plain sight by skilful use of eu gobbledegook. it sounds like a discussion of genuine constitutional issues, when it is no more or no less than a call for yet another power grab by the eu. the very first paragraph sets out the objective which is: ‘enhancing the unionʼs competencies’. let us be clear what this means. it means increasing the power of the european union and draining away further power from the nation states. in the face of the catastrophic failure of the european project, the response is always the same. it is like a football chant. what do we want? more power, more money! when do we want it? now! but that, of course, requires a treaty change and that all takes time and the agreement of everyone involved – all those countries – which in the current climate may be hard to get. nor will the uk prime minister be pleased by all of this because, if there is going to be a treaty change, he will have to call a referendum which he will lose.
mr president, in paragraph 13 the rapporteurs express their dislike of member states excluding themselves from treaties or legislation from the outset, and would prefer legislation to allow for derogations later. this effectively makes the default position that all treaties and legislation should apply to all member states unless they negotiate an opt-out and only, of course, for as long as they retain it. however, the express disapproval of derogations is intended to make them an exceptional and shameful procedure for which member states should feel properly contrite. this means that agreements and legislation concerning the euro and instruments to serve it will apply to britain and other non-euro countries unless they and britain ask for a derogation: in other words, control of our economy unless the government asks for an opt-out. this would allow member state governments that are indolent, or perhaps less eurosceptic than they pretend to be, to extend the eu’s control… (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the greatest test of relations between the parliament and the european council is of course still to come, in july of 2014 and with the appointment of the next commission. the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, will act as the informateur in finding the successor to mr barroso and i think he is going to have to display exceptional sensitivity to parliamentary opinion. i believe, as a matter of routine, he ought to answer parliamentary written questions. at present he declines to do so and, with the greatest respect to the rapporteur, i do not think that mr van rompuy deserves a state of the union address of his own because i think that would tread further upon the prerogatives of the president of the commission. i must say that i would have preferred a slightly wider scope to this report, to include criticism of the rotating presidency of the council of ministers, because i believe that a reformed european council could bring much greater coherence and drive to the work of our respected second legislative chamber than it actually has at present.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, unlike the rapporteur, i am not going to start my remarks by congratulating president van rompuy. i am, of course, an mep from the east of england and in a few months i will learn what the voters make of what i have done since 2009. they are pretty sensible individuals in my part of the world. they understand that successive governments of every kind have handed over the democratic governance of our country to unelected, unaccountable, power-hungry functionaries of the european union. now they are to be confronted with a classic power struggle, as the recipients of that power in the eu project battle it out for supremacy. the tone of this report tells us that the first shots in the struggle between the european council and the european parliament are being fired. by far the most interesting comment in the report though is that which castigates the council of ministers for a lack of desirable standards of pace, strategy, consistency, coherence or transparency. well, we in ukip have been pointing this out for years and it really is not surprising when you look at the reduction in the standards of living of so many people in europe. it just is not working.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur. i agree that there is a need to improve the working relations between council and parliament. it is evident that we have not yet found the magic formula to effectively implement codecision between the two peoples in europe. lisbon was ground-breaking for parliament: our legislative authority is now enshrined in the treaty. however, parliament is not yet adapted to effectively fulfil its role as a co-legislator. this report highlights the council’s legislative deficiencies, but what about our legislative deficiencies here in parliament? only in the light of newly instigated trialogues and the resulting trialogue agreements have we begun to see the glaring gaps in our lawmaking capacity in parliament. the commission fields more experts than the council and parliament put together. we are constantly battling to ensure that we keep on top of the attachment-loads of emails and the reams of updated documents of the most technical nature that come forward. the cap reform was a typical example of this and we have to ensure that delegated acts certainly fulfil and respect the political agreements that were made.
mr president, it is tempting to applaud the proposals for increasing the power of parliament and increasing the accountability of the president of the european council to it. equally, it is easy to deprecate the behaviour of the european council in trying to extend its role. if i were an enthusiast for the eu project, i would succumb to both temptations. however, i am not so i shall not. do i look at the european council through rose-tinted spectacles? no. my view of some of their members might involve unparliamentary language. however, whatever i think of particular members of the european council, its members represent member states and are ultimately responsible to their electorates and removable by them. the parliament, whatever its merits, is not responsible to a single electorate with a consciousness of its identity so it cannot take a conscious collective decision as to the choice of commission president. indeed its decision will look like the decision of a ouija board.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say thank you to everyone for the cooperation on this file. i am fully supportive of the implementation of maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management. the mapping of existing and planned human activities, plus dialogue between relevant stakeholders, is necessary to ensure the growth and development of our coastal communities. there is no reason to find fault with these objectives, but the proposed directive was intended to be a framework directive offering guidelines for member states to follow. on close examination it goes into far too much prescriptive detail. many member states, including my own, have already taken extensive action in this field, so it is important that existing processes are not affected. in addition, member states should be fully free to determine the content of their plans and identify their own priorities for their coastal regions. i have significant concerns with the commission proposal, which included, in my view, too much prescriptive detail for a framework directive and as such looked likely to interfere with existing processes and limit scope for future prioritisation at national level. the report which we will vote on this week has made some improvements to the commission text, and i am grateful to the rapporteur for her efforts. there is now explicit text outlining member states’ competence for the content of plans, and existing processes in the area of integrated coastal management are now taken into account – although i do have to question how realistic it is to think that all these marine plans will be in place within 36 months. it seems very ambitious. these improvements to the commission’s report still do not go far enough, and there is still too much detail in the articles on minimum requirements for msp and icm. in addition, the time frame really needs to be examined in much more detail. so, despite efforts from the committee on transport and tourism, reluctantly my group will be voting against.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 12 december 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the gsp+ monitoring mechanism and gsp+ scorecards by vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000133/2013 – b7-0527/2013) (2013/2959(rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as other speakers have said, gsp is the most successful carrot-and-stick trade regime that the eu has. it gives greater access to the european union market for countries which sign and ratify 27 core ilo conventions. the first ten countries to apply for the new gsp+ scheme are choosing not only to strengthen their economy through cooperation with europe, but also demonstrating their commitment to improving their human rights, environmental and labour standards. one example of this is pakistan, which is for the first time in its history successfully seeing the conclusion of a full term of a civilian government followed by the election of another civilian government. pakistan sees gsp+ status as key to the long-term goal of stabilising their economy, accelerating growth and eradicating poverty. in response to my colleague and friend vital moreira, the issue is not whether these ten countries are perfect in terms of their human rights, but whether they are on the right path, making the effort to improve and going in the right direction. that is what the commission scorecard will allow us to judge – whether progress is real. if it is real, we should stand shoulder to shoulder with our colleagues and make sure that we help them develop their human rights, labour standards and environmental standards.
mr president, i am happy to support my colleague mr rinaldi from the liberals and democrats in this debate. the issue surrounding the single delegated act is a serious one, as others have mentioned, and i cannot understand why the commission decided to tie its hands in this way. as liberals we have strongly supported the progress made, particularly in pakistan, particularly through their successful election and their efforts to improve their human rights record as well as their economy, but the daily press is now reporting on gsp+ in many of these countries and is expecting it to happen. rejecting the delegated act over procedural concerns would deal serious damage to such countries. so my question now is: how does the commission plan to safeguard the role of the european union in promoting human and labour rights, and environment and good governance through trade and development? does the commission have a plan to monitor how the gsp countries meet the conditions required to keep this status and does the commission have the means to react if there are cases of serious violations of human rights in the gsp+ countries?
mr president, if every country on this globe had a perfect human rights record, there would be no reason for the existence of the gsp+ scheme. the reason we have it is in order to encourage countries with a less-than-perfect record to raise their standards. i am not in any way trying to take away from some of the very valid points that have been made by colleagues from right across this house. i have followed this dossier for many years now. in committee, many of our colleagues raised issues of human rights. it is quite right. we have now produced a scorecard mechanism. it is up to us now to work with the commission to ensure that it is adequately applied. the countries which are to benefit from the gsp+ scheme should hear it loud and clear: they will be monitored. but from our perspective, what does that deliver for us? it delivers for us a meaningful and constructive relationship with each of these ten countries. that is a tool which we currently do not possess. please do not lose sight of the significance of what we have here. colleagues, you have a very simple decision to make. this house stands for principles, and our flagship human rights policies ask for those to be upheld today. are we going to stand by those principles, or are we going to allow prejudices to determine our decision? there are of course interinstitutional issues that have been raised here. whilst we make the point that the commission should also hear loud and clear that this house cannot be taken for granted, the way to send that message and deal with that issue is not by supporting this particular resolution that has been put forward. the issues have been addressed. colleagues’ concerns have been met, and i am sure that the majority of meps in this house tomorrow will decide to stand by our principles and not to support prejudices. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – i wanted to ask my colleague if he shares my sense of irony regarding the fact that the last time the eu gave trade preferences to pakistan, that country had a military dictatorship and a president from the military. today we have a pakistan that is making strides in terms of democracy – we had an eu mission about which mr gahler is about to speak – which recognised fair and free elections in pakistan. yet, people in this house are opposing giving pakistan gsp+ in this new circumstance when it is striving to improve its human rights and its democratic structures.
blue-card answer. – may i thank dr martin for his question. when a 15-year-old girl – winner of the sakharov prize – stands in the centre of this house and tells the meps that her country needs trade, not aid, when she stands and she says ‘provide us with the tools to educate our youth, provide us with the means to ensure that once they are educated they can have jobs’, i find it incredibly difficult to then turn that message away from the floor of this house. that is why i urge my colleagues to come to the voting chamber tomorrow, to come in large numbers and to support that young girl in delivering her vision for her country.
mr president, with regard to the delegated act, i can agree with the commission’s approach, using the scorecard system and the monitoring report. i also agree with the condition of allowing the package to go through the proven gsp+ eligibility to the full complement of countries involved. trading at a global level as relationships depends on building strong links to bind the partners together. the conversation needs to work two ways of course and europe’s markets are the strong attraction for sales, but at the same time there must be a chance for the extension of standards when parties can show a complementary influence on each other. core labour standards and commitments to the environment and human rights are expected outcomes and indeed, as has been mentioned already, pakistan is one country where it is believed real progress can and is being made. the carrot can work and not just the stick.
i have received two motions for resolutionssee minutestabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on development of an eu green infrastructure (gi) policy by salvatore tatarella, edite estrela, gerben-jan gerbrandy, sandrine bélier, anna rosbach, kartika tamara liotard, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000094/2013 – b7-0525/2013) (2013/2663(rsp)).
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, mr tatarella has told us that recent decades have become warmer. but that is exactly the pattern we saw a thousand years ago before the medieval warm period; we saw it two thousand years ago before the roman optimum; we saw it three thousand years ago before the minoan optimum, and in none of those cases was there a tipping point. in none of those cases was there a disaster. we are dealing here with well-understood, long-term natural climate cycles which have been in place for many thousands of years. our problem is not with the climate but with our climate policy. yesterday i attended a briefing by euroelectric and eurostat on energy statistics. we heard that the eu’s emissions were flat in 2012 and are expected to increase in 2013 – this despite vast investments in green infrastructure, specifically in renewable energy projects. if emissions increase despite our best efforts when the economy is struggling, what will happen if the eurozone ever recovers? i will tell you: emissions will rise. colleagues, this must surely be the most expensive failure in history. hundreds of billions of euros of investment, yet no progress towards our emissions objectives. this is recognised not just by me, my party and my group, but by the commission. we had energy commissioner gunther oettinger telling us that europe could not afford to pursue a unilateral climate policy. we had industry commissioner antonio tajani telling us that europe faced an industrial massacre as a result of energy prices. this is the damage that we are doing. a recent study by respected environmental economist bjørn lomborg showed that germany's vast usd 130 billion investment in solar pv will have the effect, by the end of this century, of delaying the progress of global warming by 37 hours! we have seen less than one degree of warming in the last hundred years. we have seen none for nearly 20 years. a delay of 37 hours is effectively zero. that is usd 130 billion for nothing. it is time to stop this folly.
mr president, i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on this file so i have been quite involved with its gestation. eco-innovation refers to the transition to a sustainable and green economy and the benefits that this can bring. the employment committee’s opinion focused on the job creation possibilities of eco-innovation and the need to prepare and exploit this to its full potential. these employment opportunities will cater for various skill levels, requiring both academic and practical skills. this can contribute to decreasing unemployment and to reaching the europe 2020 targets. relevant skills should therefore be incorporated into education systems and into vocational training programmes. we should encourage apprenticeships in eco-innovation and access to lifelong learning. eu funds such as the esf should support this where possible. eco-innovation also presents many opportunities for smes, niche businesses, entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, on behalf of the rapporteur, as chair of the committee on transport and tourism, under rule 57, can i ask the plenary to postpone the final vote to enable us to open the negotiations with the council with a view to a first reading agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to change the way the judges at the general court of the european union are appointed and to increase their number. the court has an ever increasing workload, as they make decisions that affect every part of the eu, including wales. it is important that all of us are represented fairly by the judges there, and that they have the time to consider every case carefully.
in writing. − as ecr spokesman on legal affairs i am supportive of efforts to improve the functioning of the european court of justice. though we often feel the long arm of the court stretches too far, it is important for business confidence and legal certainty across the union that judgments are not endlessly delayed, but are reached in good time and following proper deliberation. i therefore support the idea put forward in this report, but would make several observations on behalf of the ecr. we feel that a final agreement should be adjusted so that representation of the variety of legal systems and traditions of the union is guaranteed, in particular ensuring the continued recognition of the common law system at the top of the unionʼs legal system. it is extremely important to the ecr that any solution found is budget-neutral, and while the addition of 12 judges could assist at present, we would also suggest that this is not a long-term fix. instead what should be considered is firstly better law-making to reduce the need for references; and secondly a more comprehensive review, based on lower costs for justice and addressing the growing need for specialist expertise in luxembourg.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as i recognise the need for an increase in the number of judges in the general court in order to address the backlog of casework.
mr president, a century and a half has passed since the french writer frédéric bastiat destroyed the notion of state-funded jobs with his unseen and seen costs thought experiment. he pointed out that we could pay people to go around smashing windows, and on paper that would create lots of jobs – for the people to clear up the glass and the glaziers to replace it and so on. but of course, what we would not see are the costs being taken out of the economy: the extra insurance, the costs that would have to be passed to the customers, the people who were not able to take space in the vans because they were all filled with glass, and so on. this is a precise analogy to the debate that we are now having about green growth and green jobs. we are still talking about taking money out of the market and redirecting it, by state fiat, in order to do something that there is no natural market for. there may be some ecological argument for doing it – we can argue about that – but, when you hear people trying to defend this state-funded alternative energy in terms of jobs and growth, you know that they have no arguments left.
in writing. − i voted against the kadenbach report on ‘eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policyʼ because i believe that what is really needed is to focus on the implementation of existing legislation before proposing fresh regulations. in addition, the report calls for an increase in the proportion of eu cohesion funding allocated to eco-innovation. i believe, however, that it should be up to member states to develop their own investment priorities when using eu funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i know that my constituents want to see the creation of sustainable, green jobs and growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i recognise the potential of eco-innovation to create jobs.
in writing. − i fully support this own initiative report, which highlights the issue of eco-innovation and its potential to boost the economy and increase competitiveness. eco-innovation also has a positive effect on employment, as mentioned in the report, which is vital in this time of economic difficulty. it is especially important that global challenges such as climate change are addressed and the environmental benefits gained from eco-innovation can play a big part in the shift towards a resource-efficient, low-carbon economy. the report focuses on a few key areas that could be enhanced and strengthened in order to accelerate eco-innovation, including facilitating access to funding and making better use of financial instruments. this could be beneficial to wales as it looks to enhance competitiveness in a low-carbon and resource efficient economy.
mr president, the question of trade policy has spilled out into the streets of kiev and has become a question on which the existential future of a government rests. i have to say i have every sympathy with those ukrainians who want to sign an fta with europe rather than a customs union with the eurasian union, for this basic reason: a free trade agreement is not exclusive. joining a customs union means that you cannot sign a free trade agreement with anybody else. you purchase free trade within that customs union at the expense of trade elsewhere. i am sure you can guess where this argument is going. the united kingdom unusually exports more to non-eu markets than to eu markets but we cannot sign free trade agreements with china or india or australia because we contracted that policy out to brussels on 1 january 1973. given that every continent in the world except europe is now growing, i say that is a pretty uncomfortable place to be.
mr president, two pieces of news from the last couple of weeks. one: the european union has now stalled its trade talks with india. no one is expecting an fta in the foreseeable future. two: efta is going all guns with its trade talks with india and expects a comprehensive commercial agreement early next year. given that india grew at 5.4 % last year, while the eu shrank by 0.3 %, i would say that gives us a pretty serious problem and it gives us, the british, a particular problem. no country stands to benefit so much with trade from that rising leviathan. there are 1.4 million britons of indian origin. india is the fourth largest investor in the uk. we have the same business language, the same common law system, the same commercial accountancy practices, but we cannot exploit the immense benefits of south asia as long as we are trapped by the eu’s common external tariff, required to defend a more protectionist policy than suits us, because there are cossetted industries in southern europe that fear competition from india. an fta works and a customs union does not.
in writing. − i voted against the klute report on payment accounts because while i agree that bank account fees should be clear and comparable and it should be easy to switch accounts, standard bank accounts are primarily a national concern, and this proposal and the report of the committee are too prescriptive.
in writing. − i supported this report, which states that any citizen living legally in the eu should be able to have a basic payment account with clear, transparent rules and fees. furthermore, it should be made as easy as possible for people to transfer from one bank to another bank offering better terms. it is really important to make sure people can access basic accounts without obstacles and i welcome the text in the report calling for an independent website which would allow people to compare banks, based on fees charged and interest paid by banks, as well as the level of customer service offered. this will allow citizens to make informed decisions about which bank they want to use and how best to transfer if they are not satisfied.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amendments to this report, but could not vote in favour of this text becoming the basis of parliamentʼs negotiations with the council as it was not strong enough. marine territory in wales is almost double the size of wales. we need a robust system that can guide us to make the most of this territory, both for the sake of our economy and the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i support allocations of space at sea as a means of avoiding conflicts between different uses and promoting sustainable uses of resources.
in writing. − i made the decision to vote against this report as i do not agree in principle with a new eu action for the european capitals of culture, which it has seized from the council of europe. this is the european union promoting a shared european cultural identity which i see as undermining the identities of member states. i do not see the european capitals of culture as a valid use of time and funding and it will be even more of a detriment if used as a political and ideological tool to foist a non-existent cultural brand on member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the european capital of culture action is excellent for raising the profile of cities. i would like to see a welsh city win the title and i will lobby to ensure that the eu knows what great things welsh cities have to offer in terms of culture and diversity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as i recognise the need for the application of specific measures to mayotte when it becomes an outermost region in january 2014.
in writing. − firstly i must congratulate georgia and moldova on initialling agreements with the eu at the vilnius summit. it is with sadness and disappointment that i am not able to offer armenia the same good wishes, but we must understand the geopolitical realities that they were forced to work within. nevertheless, it is ukraine that has made the headline news, and sadly for all of the wrong reasons. president yanukovychʼs last-minute decision to withdraw from the negotiations is a huge blow for that countryʼs future. after nearly a decade of reform, the current government has seemingly discarded the prospect of a democratic future in europe, in favour of the authoritarian, crony capitalism offered by putinʼs russia. the protest movement in the maidan shows us the true heart of ukraine and the desire of its young people to embrace a european future. the violence that has since been perpetrated against the protesters is simply deplorable and i call on the eu to follow developments carefully. whilst messages of solidarity with the protest movement and condemnation of the ukrainian governmentʼs actions is essential, we must not be reluctant to consider imposing eu targeted economic sanctions if no progress is made in the coming weeks.
in writing. − as shadow rapporteur for albania and rapporteur for its northern neighbour, montenegro, i am delighted to welcome this report. albania has worked hard to fulfil the 12 key priorities outlined in the commission’s 2010 opinion, and this is to be commended. progress continues at an acceptable pace although this should not preclude us from noting areas where there is more to be done. the independence of the judiciary is still a priority, whilst efforts to tackle organised crime and corruption need improvement. whilst it is true to say that eu accession has become a binding goal and the driving force for continued reforms, albania’s politicians should remain mindful of the need to work in a spirit of cooperation and compromise (particularly when speaking of the country’s two largest political parties), if it is to fulfil the copenhagen criteria, which is essential for eu accession. aside from the purely political issues, the progress report raises concerns relating to discrimination of disabled persons, as well as the roma and lgbt communities, and this is clearly an area that needs attention. nevertheless, progress heads in a positive direction and i reiterate my previous support for albania ultimately being conferred candidate country status.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i have frequently called for parliament, as the democratic arm of the eu, to be fully integrated into all decision-making processes in the eu. it is very important for my constituents in wales that we conduct eu business within the legal certainty of the treaties, not through intergovernmental treaties.
in writing. − i voted for, as this is a coherent and strong report that looks at the full potential of the treaties of the eu and considers a strategy on how to strengthen integration of the euro area without damaging the functioning of the eu as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which aims to clarify the relationship between parliament and the european council. having no voice at council, it is of utmost importance that wales can have its voice heard in this parliament and a robust arrangement between these institutions, pending a broader reform package, is the way to achieve this.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the report provides a good analysis of the relationship between parliament and the council and gives insight on how to potentially improve the exchange of information between these two eu bodies.
mr president, i welcome this resolution on green infrastructure as it allows us to recognise and make the most of all the different benefits that a piece of land can offer. the environmental dimension, such as supporting biodiversity and ecosystems or flood protection, is extremely important, but green infrastructure policy has to offer much more in terms of economic and social benefits, such as creating jobs and offering services. i support the call in this resolution for information on green infrastructure policies to be shared and for awareness to be raised. i think the best practice examples could be extremely useful to ensure successful initiatives in this area. i also support the need to integrate green infrastructure into other policy areas such as public health and youth employment. i agree that innovative smes have a role to play in this area and that should be recognised.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. in wales we need to improve our infrastructure, but this must not be done to the detriment of our beautiful landscape.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. tax evasion and avoidance must be dealt with. my constituents in wales often send me correspondence asking what the eu can do to clamp down on tax evasion. this resolution calls for a tangible commitment to tackling the problem.
in writing. − every year eur 1 trillion is lost through lost revenue on tax: money which could be spent on 600 schools, 50 hospitals or pay the salaries of 300 000 police officers. this is why this week i have voted to extend the sharing of information in a bid to clamp down on tax evasion. this would mean that from 2017, member states should automatically exchange data on income from dividends, capital gains and bank account balances. i was very disappointed to learn that the conservatives voted against this measure, once again proving that fighting tax evasion is not a tory priority at european level. labour meps are fighting for closure of the eu tax gap, a gap which is the size of the combined budgets of all of europeʼs national health systems, which has been eating away at collective trust in the fairness of tax systems, and the availability of funds for public investment. i believe that the fight against tax evasion should be one of the cornerstones of our enhanced economic policy coordination, and that the people of europe deserve social justice through tax justice.
mr president, the escalating situation in the central african republic continues to be a source of concern for this house and indeed the entire international community. since the coup d’état organised by the seleka rebels in early 2013, there has been a widespread breakdown of law and order in the country and human rights violations have become a daily occurrence. in this last week alone, 400 people have been killed in the fighting between the predominately muslim seleka and the christian militia groups, with incidences of torture, rape and summary execution being reported daily. the rising sectarian violence poses a real risk of genocide and threatens to destabilise the whole region. the international community has reacted. the eu has set aside eur 50 million in aid and france has deployed 1 600 troops as part of a wider resolution by the un security council. however, the security presence has thus far been insufficient to control the crisis and urgent intervention is needed to restore peace and order in the country. amnesty international has said that this is of an unprecedented scale. i hope that we will see a quick resolution and that peace will be brought to this terrible crisis.
blue-card question. – mr president, i am puzzled by this motion for a resolution. i would like to ask the mover of the motion, my honourable friend, to explain why we are discussing this. the chinese government has admitted that they were harvesting organs from prisoners of conscience, and they have committed themselves to ceasing this practice by 2014 and stopping it altogether by 2015. they are making transitional arrangements to move to a different system. why are we debating this now as a matter of urgency? what is the point of it?
author. − mr president, for over a decade now china has been accused of operating a heinous state-sponsored programme of non-consenting organ harvesting, particularly against executed falun gong detainees of conscience. whilst these are extremely serious accusations, it is important to recognise that no definitive evidence has yet been presented to support these outrageous claims. nevertheless, such a severe potential human rights violation clearly warrants attention, and it is right for the eu to urge the chinese authorities to fully investigate and to come clean if it is proven. the eu has no such powers. the ecr is therefore calling on china to increase the accountability and transparency of its rather murky organ transplant system, as well as wanting to see measures taken that would see those responsible, if proven, for any such criminal abuses, prosecuted and punished. i welcome today’s debate on the subject for highlighting the issue and i hope that the government in china will be prompted to investigate. i hope, too, that it has raised awareness of the desperate plight of the falun gong, a group which faces deplorable discrimination within china. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr tannock, you mentioned that there was no evidence. i believe that a former health minister in china is on the record as saying that there is evidence. if that evidence is then substantiated, would you be able to raise this with the british prime minister, who recently visited china, and maybe put this on the agenda in future?
blue-card answer. – i picked my words very carefully. for something definitive, i would need to see it. i do not know about the case you raise. i have certainly heard allegations over the ten or more years i have been in this parliament, but i have never seen sworn statements or affadavits by chinese about this issue. it is a question of disentangling. we know that organ harvesting is taking place from executed prisoners. the serious issue is whether people who are innocent are being executed deliberately to organ harvest. i am not absolutely sure about that. we know that it is going on but are falun gong practitioners or uighurs or other people being selected, imprisoned and killed just for their organs? that is why i think proof is still lacking.
mr president, on a point of order, i am concerned that we may be conducting this debate on the basis of false information. if falun gong has been telling us lies, and parliamentary time is being wasted, what is the sanction against falun gong?
author. − mr president, there are those, particularly within the tamil diaspora, that have not come to terms with the defeat of the ltte, a most brutal terrorist organisation that inflicted 30 years of misery, not least on the northern tamils in sri lanka. but now should be the opportunity to look ahead, to overcome the divisions of the past and make sure that mistakes are not repeated, to rebuild the sri lankan economy and create a more prosperous, secure and democratic future for all sri lankans, regardless of ethnicity or religion. much has been done and i give credit to the sri lankan government and authorities for this, but much more needs to be done. this week we mourn the death of nelson mandela, who has been elevated to heroic status because, after 27 years of imprisonment, he emerged without bitterness and with a great message of reconciliation which he turned into reality. it is not for us to preach, but i would like to see the sri lankan government go that extra step to address the concerns of reasonable tamils and, most importantly, i want to see the tamil diaspora that keep the ltte... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – may i ask mr murphy, who clearly has set himself out as an expert on sri lanka, to tell me the following: how many tamil people are there in sri lanka? how many live in the south, and how many live in the north? what is the tamil population of colombo, the capital city?
author. − mr president, we are now four years down the line from the end of the conflict between the sri lankan government and the liberation tigers of tamil eelam and there are still widespread claims, backed by human rights groups, that impunity persists for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity. but i will say now that the resolution we have today is a balanced resolution and it gives due credit for the progress made, particularly in reconstruction, demining, and the successful provincial election we have just seen in the northern province. however, people of sri lanka from all backgrounds deserve the right to know what happened to friends, family and fellow citizens during the civil war. an independent inquiry into the violations of international law committed by both sides – and, i repeat, both sides – in this conflict is needed urgently. we are calling on the government of sri lanka to commission an independent inquiry as soon as possible. if the sri lankan government does not initiate a credible inquiry by march 2014, the united nations has a legitimate right to commission an independent inquiry of its own. i therefore call on the eu high representative to engage, proactively, with the sri lankan government to ensure justice is found. i call on president rajapaksa to set up the inquiry that we are calling for on a similar basis to the one that he has already set up to look into the disappeared. hopefully this process of reconciliation can then be concluded. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – certainly i agree that it would be unrealistic to complete an inquiry by march 2014. we are only asking for that inquiry to be initiated, and the timing is related to the united nations meetings in march 2014. all we are asking is for this process to be initiated by march 2014. the initiation process is simply a question of the president sending out the notification and calling on justices to actually start the inquiry. i think that is perfectly reasonable.
blue-card question. – does ms vergiat know that colombo, the capital city of sri lanka, where i was born, is a minority city where 64% of the population of the city speaks tamil and not sinhalese? what is she talking about?
mr president, i have to declare an interest, obviously. i was born in sri lanka. my grandfather was a senator and he was a founder member of the main opposition party. it is pathetic that a vicious 30-year terrorist insurrection, claiming 60 000 lives, has all but been forgotten by this house and replaced with international judgments about how the war ended. for 30 years, state actors defended the rule of law against non-state actors which terrorised an innocent population, using them at times as human shields. sri lanka is a 2 600-year-old unitary state, proud and undivided, invaded 14 times by armed forces from mainland india and repelled 14 times by her ancient kings. uniquely, sri lanka is also the most europeanised of any asian state. she had 500 years of european civilisation: first from portugal, then holland, and then from britain. she became a universally-franchised democratic state in 1928 – far, far earlier than 19 out of the 28 eu member states which now think it wholly appropriate to lecture her on democracy. it is laughable. that laughter becomes risible when states that once subjugated her now – and as this house has done – issue dated ultimatums for her to do this or that, by this date or that date, on pain of serious sanctions. are we still back in the imperial age here? this is utterly counterproductive and only makes the current government even more popular. instead we must build lasting peace with her people … (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – if mr murphy had heard me correctly, he would know that i did not excuse state violence. i said ‘defended the rule of law’. for 30 years, state actors defended the rule of law. if you look at how this war was conducted, for 30 years the south fed the north. they fed the population that was trying to blow them up. we have sent food up there. this is an act of terrorism by a small group of people! it has nothing to do with the tamil population.
mr president, this resolution is as important as it is timely. progress in sri lanka has been slow and in many areas there is still a long path to be trod in order to establish a credible reputation for this regime against the allegations of human rights violations in the past and present. you only have to look at the work of navi pillay from the un to know that there are still some outstanding issues to be resolved. some of those questions relate to the murder of aid workers and the thousands of disappeared who have been mentioned here already. it is not just sri lanka of course. it is the united nations and the international community which need to answer their own questions as to what they have been credibly able to do anything about. unless there is pressure from within and pressure from outside, no progress will be made.
in writing. – it is over four years since the civil war in sri lanka came to an end but we are reminded of how difficult the reconciliation process can be after such a lengthy period of conflict. whilst there are areas of great concern in terms of the situation in sri lanka, i think it is worth taking time to highlight some of the more positive aspects first. september of this year saw the first elections of the provincial council in the northern province for instance. the announcement a month before of a presidential commission of inquiry to investigate the disappearances between 1990 and 2010 is also to be welcomed. this should complement the findings and work of the llrc published in 2011. it is therefore regretful that this progress is overshadowed by the continued reports of human rights abuses, which include reports of extrajudicial killings, torture and threats to the independence of judiciary by the security forces. todayʼs resolution has echoed the calls of the uk prime minister for the sri lankan authorities to carry out an investigation into alleged war crimes, crucially, might i add, with a deadline of march 2014. this is a call that the ecr supports.
