mr president, commissioner andor, our good colleague mr cercas is making a very simple proposal. he's telling you to get off the bleachers and get on the field and play ball. the crisis has resulted in the need for business restructuring. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner. the commission is the one who has to deal with the difficult ones. i repeat, in difficult times it is the european commission which must intervene. we are asking for the rights of workers to be respected and at the same time for competitiveness to be promoted.
mr president, i too would like to welcome this important initiative. the young people today are the greatest victims of the crisis and youth unemployment, as a major problem, now requires direct and dynamic interventions. in my country, greece, 56% of young people are out of the labour market, with particularly painful consequences both for their own lives and for the functioning of society as a whole. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the young europeans do not become a lost generation. this is why there should be leverage to pressure governments, the social partners and other stakeholders to adopt targeted actions without, however, operating at the expense of other policies of a social nature. i would therefore like to ask, in a period of widespread cuts in national, social and educational budgets, what specific ways and measures can you take to ensure that the youth guarantee is financed and implemented effectively in the member states, particularly those which are governed by memoranda?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, gloom, austerity, unemployment and depression are over europe. unemployment is not just an economic issue, it is psychiatric in origin. we're driving a whole new generation into a mental anomaly. i therefore welcome, and cannot help myself, the initiative to discuss this matter. the commissioner, the plans for the youth guarantee schemes must go ahead. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. it is necessary to understand that the austerity measures over europe and the unemployment of educated young people are creating a new scientific proletariat that will drown us.
madam president, in the light of all the interesting things that have been said by my colleagues, i would like to add that the situation is urgent. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. not just from their own country, but from europe, with what that means for the competitiveness of our economy. it is therefore very important that we see that these measures must be taken immediately, bearing in mind that we already have programmes for young people, we already have programmes to make a substantial and serious evaluation so that we can draw the best conclusions to use them and avoid mistakes and the squandering of resources that have not paid off. i would also like to stress that unless there is a broader framework for development in the countries of the south, a balance between the countries of the european union, we will not be able to create the conditions for sustainable growth and stability which will bring investment, employment and retention of young people in their countries and in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, the european solidarity fund was launched immediately after the 2002 floods, but climate change and other human interventions have led to an increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters. in 2005, the council blocked changes to the fund. this time the council must accept the commission's proposal, with the european parliament's amendments, to improve the functioning of the fund, especially in view of the increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters in europe. from 1980 to 2011, total damage in the european area from hydrological, geophysical and extreme events reached €455 billion, while natural disasters caused 110,000 deaths. insurance covered only 27% of the cases, and does not usually cover many of the catastrophic events. the fund should therefore play an active role in the effective recovery of areas and social life in the event of natural disasters, but the fund's contribution should be made in a way that improves policies and practices for preventing natural disasters and mitigating their consequences. the best way, of course, and the most economical way to deal with natural disasters is prevention. but the process also needs to be improved. to clarify the cases that can be supported by the fund, because 60% of applications were rejected in the previous period; to simplify administrative, bureaucratic procedures; to improve the time needed for financial resources to reach the member states from the european institutions and from the member states to the beneficiaries of compensation in the regions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to join in the voice of all those who say that the solidarity fund is one of the main and most successful instruments of expression and solidarity available to the european union. in recent years the fund has been used on a number of occasions to provide aid to member states affected by disasters. however, some problems have been identified in the process of mobilising and implementing it, with the consequence that available resources are delayed in reaching the affected areas. a delay that creates problems in providing help at a time when that help is needed more than at any other time. that is why our socialist group in the european parliament supports a more flexible, efficient and simplified fund, easy and quick to mobilise, which will enable the european union to respond better to major disasters, providing timely relief for citizens in need. this must be the essence of the solidarity which our union offers its citizens.
mr president, the common thread running through all three reports is the allocation of public money to the large business groups in order to mobilise their accumulated capital and overcome the capitalist crisis at the expense of the workers. in particular, they call on the local administration to enter into partnerships with the european commission which will determine the eligibility of projects and the way funds are allocated not to meet the increased needs of the people which are particularly large today, such as public, free transport, seismic and flood protection, public education infrastructure, etc., but, instead, to new profitable areas for capital, such as waste management, the commercial exploitation of historical and cultural monuments, the liberalisation of energy production and distribution. the reports promote the anti-people europe 2020 strategy which already absorbs 63% of the community's resources in greece. 40% of the resources go back to the big monopoly groups and the remaining 60% goes to the greek oligarchy to intensify capitalist restructuring. the sharpening of geographical and social contradictions in the capitalist system is a matter of law.
in writing. the lisbon treaty introduced the territorial dimension as an objective of cohesion policy to exploit the strengths of all regions, manage concentration, improve regional connectivity and develop cooperation. the role of territorial development in cohesion policy is therefore considered to be of major importance. to further strengthen the role of territorial development in future cohesion policy, common rules and close cooperation are necessary for all five funds under the general regulation. the implementation of territorial strategies should also be the responsibility of local bodies and authorities, with the aim of ensuring that economic and social needs are met at the level closest to the citizen. moreover, providing opportunities for member states, regional and local authorities to use more than one european funding programme to support projects will improve the efficiency of european funding, enhance simplification and provide potential beneficiaries with easier access to funding. finally, the integrated territorial investment proposals can provide an opportunity for cities to meet their specific financing needs, and it is of particular importance that the instrument can be used in non-urban areas if it meets local needs.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches (rule 150).
mr president, a new report on behalf of the international monetary fund published on 3 january 2013 admits that the forecasting models used to promote crisis response policies contain significant overestimations of fiscal multipliers. the commission report estimates that any multiplier above 0.5, especially for greece, even in healthy fiscal periods causes debt to rise. but the fiscal multiplier for greece is estimated at 1 and maybe 1.7. this has the effect that restrictive policies lead not to a reduction but to a dramatic increase in debt, making it unsustainable. following these wrong forecasting models and decisions for forcible fiscal adjustment, the greek debt crisis will cost european citizens 240 billion euros by 2016. for the greek people, however, it results in more than doubling unemployment, collapse of the real economy, even viable businesses, and poverty for a significant proportion of the population. by 2016, 65 billion euros will have been taken from the greek people. but a stagnation at 2011 levels, not a worsening of the recession, could reduce debt by 21%. the commission must therefore contribute to the political dialogue in greece on an alternative, balanced and effective plan for getting out of the crisis.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by charles tannock, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu strategy for the horn of africa (2012/2026 (ini)) (a7-0408/2012).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to talk on behalf of vice-president/high representative ashton about the strategy in the horn of africa. i would also like to thank charles tannock for his valuable report. the situation in the horn has evolved since the approval of our horn of africa strategy in november 2011, including the appointment of the eu special representative for the horn of africa, mr alexander rondos. we must, of course, do our utmost to secure the progress achieved and we must prevent the region from being affected by the developments in the sahel. the turning point for the region has been the changes in somalia. we have a new and more representative government, voted in by a new parliament. al-shabaab is a diminished force, thanks in no small part to our support to the african union. piracy, as was stated in the report, has been reduced. our work on the political and security sectors has helped pave the way for more effective investment by us in construction and development. that is what high representative ashton means by a comprehensive approach. by providing the support to our mission and maintaining atalanta to secure the high seas from piracy, by training the future officer corps of the somali army through the eu training mission, by financing nestor to create maritime policy capacity and by supporting rule of law programmes in more parts of somalia, the eu has laid the foundations for a somalia that can be at peace. we have created the space for politics to play their part. now we are opening the path for development activities to resume and we are helping make the entire region of the horn of africa more secure. we are also pleased to announce too that, following the high representative’s invitation, the new president of somalia, hassan sheikh mohamud, will be in brussels at the end of the month to meet with the foreign affairs council and with parliament. it is also worth noting that natural resources are changing the economies of the region and that this is of course a challenge for african countries. several of them have discovered oil and gas resources. if it is not hydrocarbons, as in sudan, uganda, kenya or even somalia, it is water, which ethiopia has in such abundance and with which it could potentially supply hydroelectricity to the entire region. we must now work with the region to turn these resources into something that adds strategic value to the security and prosperity of the whole region. we must intensify our investment in all regional projects – road, electricity, water management, inter-regional trade – and we believe that many in the region are hiding behind the excuse – real or perceived – of external threat. if we work on eliminating that threat we eliminate the rationale for abuse. we are pleased that the external action service and the eu special representative for the horn of africa have already engaged through the african union and with the intergovernmental authority on development in order to develop such a regional policy. ethiopia and eritrea need to come to a resolution of their differences. if both rise to the challenges and responsibility of finding common ground, they can make a major contribution to regional stability. eritrea must find ways to demonstrate that it wishes to engage constructively with the region and eliminate the stifling restraints on its own population. i listened very carefully to the statement made by olle schmidt on the unfortunate imprisonment of mr dawit isaak, and i will convey that information to high representative ashton. we will monitor closely the kenyan elections with a message that the key actors should not squander the country’s potential but pay careful attention to their responsibility to their country, their neighbours and the international community. the two sudans, we hope, will continue in their recent efforts to improve their relations. relations between the two sudans remain very delicate, but the summit between presidents kiir and al-bashir this month reaffirmed the commitment of both to respect and implement the addis ababa agreement of last september and work to resolve the outstanding issue of abyei and other issues. the report by mr tannock welcomes and underscores the need for an approach based on tackling security and stability concerns, enforcing the rule of law and ensuring due process, whilst addressing the underlying causes. indeed, we need to act on both. development will only occur if there is trust within and among the countries of the region, and we must act regionally and combine our economic, diplomatic, security and humanitarian activities in such a way that the interests of our taxpayers are effectively served and the regions’ populations feel the beneficial impact on their daily lives.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mrs catherine grèze, on behalf of the committee on development, on the development aspects of intellectual property rights for genetic resources: the impact on poverty reduction in developing countries (2012/2135 (ini)) (a7-0423/2012)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish on behalf of the commission to thank the european parliament, and ms grèze in particular, for the report on the development aspects of intellectual property rights on genetic resources. i would also like to thank the committee on development as a whole, as well as the committee on internal trade and the committee on legal affairs for their views. the commission believes that the eu has been playing an important role in advancing regulatory action in this field, both domestically and internationally. this would, as you rightly state, enhance the effectiveness, inter alia, of the fight against poverty. the impressive development of modern bioscience and the rapid growth of scientific research on the genetic base of life have created growing expectations vis-à-vis the commercial value of biodiversity. it is now recognised that research and innovation relating to biotechnology play a significant role for development and can also help in the fight against poverty. however, we have also seen increasing concerns from developing countries relating to the misappropriation of genetic resources and ways of ensuring that the benefits stemming from intellectual property rights based on genetic resources from biodiversity reach developing countries. the union cares about development, recognises the concerns of developing countries and works towards creating positive synergies between the convention on biological diversity and different international bodies and instruments, such as the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property, wipo, fao and the international treaty on plant genetic resources for food and agriculture. the new treaty under the convention on biological diversity, the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and a fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilisation, which the international community finally managed to negotiate in 2010, should ensure legal certainty for users of genetic resources and improve transparency on transactions involving such resources. this in turn should help the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and those who depend on ecosystems in the source countries. the commission has already proposed legislation for the ratification and implementation of the nagoya protocol in the eu. it provides for legal certainty for european users and increases the possibilities for transactions on genetic resources. at the same time, the proposal for a regulation establishes a credible system to ensure that users are in compliance with the legal requirements of the countries that provide such resources, which – as your report highlights – is a concern for developing countries. in our view, however, the compliance system should avoid excessive implementation costs and other burdens, especially for public research laboratories and smes. the eu also plays a very active role in helping to finalise the mechanisms needed for the entry into force of the nagoya protocol. the commission supports the establishment of the nagoya protocol clearing-house mechanism and considers close cooperation with other regions and countries essential for its effective implementation and for reaching a shared understanding of all pending issues relating to its smooth application. in order to help the least developed countries in particular, the eu and a number of member states are supporting other parties in ratifying and implementing the protocol. one important example is the multi-donor abs capacity development initiative that supports stakeholders from acp countries. the commission regards this as an important initiative and therefore contributes significantly. in addition a number of other international legal tools need to be further developed. the union is heavily involved in discussions with the wto and wipo. finally, in bilateral relations with third countries, and in line with eu policy coherence for development, we work towards the adoption of a balanced solution for intellectual property rights in order to prevent negative impacts on agriculture, health and poverty eradication. in summary, the commission acknowledges the call by the european parliament for coherent global governance systems that offer prospects for development to poorer countries. we agree that an important path towards this objective is an intellectual property rights system that prevents biopiracy and promotes innovation, the transfer and dissemination of technology to mutual advantage, and prosperity for stakeholders, providers, holders and users of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge. the commission looks forward to further cooperation with the parliament, including the committee on development, on this very important challenge.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, cyprus has reminded us through its presidency that it is an organised country with a stable, modern infrastructure and a multicultural tradition and culture. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. i would also like to mention and emphasize that, although turkey broke off relations with the european commission because of the cypriot presidency, during that period, and at the initiative and work of cyprus, the road map for visa liberalization with turkey was drawn up. this shows a historical maturity. i would also like to mention the energy conference held by the cypriot minister of energy, which was attended by all the ambassadors from the south-east mediterranean region, north africa and the middle east, including israel and palestine. all this, ladies and gentlemen, leads us to the conclusion that cyprus is a valuable member of the union and should be used in our foreign diplomacy.
madam president, mr president of the republic of cyprus, i would like to thank you for presenting the report of the cyprus presidency and on the basis of this report to congratulate you, to congratulate in your person all those who have worked hard for the successful presidency of the republic of cyprus. it was indeed a difficult and extremely demanding presidency. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. secondly, because it was conducted at the most difficult period, politically and economically, in the history of the european union and european integration. thirdly, because it has faced the conscious and persistent attempt by turkey to undermine the credibility of the efforts made by the cypriot presidency by not recognising it. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i want to congratulate you again.
i thank you, mr president, and i warmly congratulate you on the very successful first presidency of the republic of cyprus in the european union. the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. about 70% of the eu population now lives in urban centres. in practice, therefore, much of the economic activity, employment opportunities, education, training and innovation centres are based and created in them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in this own-initiative resolution, which i voted in favour of, the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to show greater determination. the efforts to develop urban networks cannot, however, be confined to the economy. growth means green space, culture, volunteering, sports, and opportunity. the new programming of cohesion policy should collectively respond to these challenges. the opportunities for financing from the corresponding community fund must be balanced between them, creating conditions for the overall emergence of the centres and not just the cores, leading other neighbourhoods, as has happened in athens and other greek urban centres, to degradation, marginalisation and underdevelopment.
in writing. − more than two thirds of the european population live in urban areas. cities are the sources of problems, but are also places where solutions can be found. the urban fabric is a fertile breeding ground for science and technology, culture and innovation. on the other hand, problems such as unemployment, discrimination and poverty can also be concentrated and inflated in cities. similarly, it is where the effects of the economic crisis are most strongly felt and the challenges of reducing the impact of climate change, job creation, well-being and quality of life are played out. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it will be the development of our cities that will determine the future of economic, social and territorial development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on urban upgrading as a contribution to economic development, as local development at the urban level should be an integral part of cohesion policy, as it is the level closest to a very large proportion of citizens living in the european union. i agree with the rapporteur who proposes a new integrated approach to urban policies and the promotion of a holistic approach to the problems of the urban fabric. i also think that the proposal to strengthen the instrument of participatory planning with local and regional authorities, by creating the right conditions for the establishment of partnerships, is particularly important. in short, a coherent urban policy should be a priority as the majority of european union citizens live in cities and urban regions and all european union policies must take this reality into account. the effectiveness of cohesion policy, as one of the most important policies of the european union, is based on an effective urban policy, which makes a decisive contribution to development.
in writing. this own-initiative report contains important examples and good practices currently in place or under consideration for implementation in european regions with a view to growth and job creation. territorial cohesion has now been added to economic and social cohesion as an objective of the treaty (article 174) and therefore requires greater mobilisation of local bodies and authorities to ensure that policies are taken close to the citizen and with immediate and tangible effects. however, this also requires greater involvement of local actors, transparency of programmes and clarity of their objectives. particularly for countries such as greece, which in the past have had problems absorbing and utilising resources from the community funds, further development and better design of territorial development programmes, and of the structural funds in general, for the new financial period (2014-2020) can prove particularly beneficial. the report i voted for is moving in that direction.
in writing. i voted against the vaughan report because i believe that there are differences (e.g. on accessibility) between the eu regions which are constantly widening due to the difficult economic conditions for many member states and budgetary cuts. i agree with the rapporteur that the budget for cohesion policy after 2013 must be maintained at least at its current level in order to ensure that support continues to be provided to areas in need of economic and social regeneration.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which demonstrates the importance of the role of territorial development in the context of cohesion policy. to this end, common rules and close cooperation are necessary for all five funds under the general regulation. the implementation of strategies at local level should also be the responsibility of local bodies and authorities, with the aim of ensuring that economic and social needs are met at the level closest to the citizen. furthermore, i agree with the rapporteur who argues that providing opportunities for member states, regional and local authorities to use more than one european funding programme to support projects will improve the efficiency of european funding, enhance simplification and provide potential beneficiaries with easier access to funding. the new instruments introduced to strengthen the local dimension of cohesion policy, to increase the strategic focus of territorial cooperation and to introduce a more coordinated approach at all levels of governance are therefore considered to be of major importance.
in writing. the solidarity fund, which has now completed its 10 years of existence, is perhaps the most characteristic political and economic instrument of practical cooperation and mutual assistance between the eu member states. having so far provided financial support to compensate for damage caused by 49 disasters, mainly floods and fires (it should be recalled that it has also been mobilised in greece for these reasons), its successful course requires its preservation. however, conceptual clarifications regarding the eligibility of the disasters where it occurs are necessary. in view of the new financial period 2014-2020, the fund regulation should therefore be updated. in any case, however, the european parliament makes it clear in this report, which i voted in favour of, that these changes should not reduce the effectiveness and the ability of the fund to intervene, but should instead make it even clearer that europe will stand by its citizens in the face of a difficult and emergency situation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the regulation governing the solidarity fund needs to be adapted and some shortcomings that have become apparent in its 10 years of operation need to be addressed.
in writing. the solidarity fund is the main instrument available to the european union for implementing the principle of solidarity enshrined in the treaty, and its success is beyond doubt. since its creation in 2002, the fund has been mobilised 49 times, with 23 member states requesting its mobilisation and the amount allocated amounting to some eur 3 billion. however, some problems have been observed in the implementation of the fund, in particular with regard to definitions, scope, meeting the criteria for applications and timely delivery of funding. i therefore strongly support any positive measure aimed at improving the mobilisation and implementation of the solidarity fund, such as the minimisation of red tape. our aim should be a more flexible and simplified fund that is easily and quickly mobilised and allows the european union to respond better and more effectively to major disasters and to provide timely relief for citizens in need. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sees in a law of administrative procedure an opportunity to reinforce the legitimacy of the union and, at the same time, to give citizens and legal persons clearer rights and more legal certainty in their relations with the union’s administration.
in writing. the kke votes against the extraordinarily complex report, the new anti-working class measures included for the relocation of enterprises and the safeguarding of the interests of the monopolies. the report considers it an inalienable right of enterprises to make whatever restructuring they deem necessary for their profitability, such as redundancies, the generalized application of temporary flexible employment, welfare, intensification of the exploitation of the working class, protection and safeguarding of competitiveness, the profitability of monopolies, and the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the excessive deficit of the member states. the commission has already proposed training programmes for redundancies, which will certainly benefit the companies. with unprecedented audacity for the unemployed, they propose measures of psychological support! it is now imperative that the working class and the popular strata strengthen the anti-monopoly - anti-capitalist struggle, to open the way for the overthrow of the power of capital, for radical changes in the level of power and the economy, which will be based on the satisfaction of the modern needs of the working people and not the monopolies.
madam president, the escalation of imperialist intervention in mali and the open role of the so-called 'progressive' french government must be condemned in the strongest possible terms. the cause of the suffering of the people of mali is the imperialist rivalries and the struggle for control of raw materials and territory . mali is the third largest producer of gold in africa and has substantial uranium reserves exploited by french multinationals. the operation, which was immediately supported by the european union and nato, and received the full material assistance of the united states, the united kingdom and germany, is developing in a country that is a key pillar in counter-terrorism initiatives. it is thus clear that integration into the imperialist plans of the united states and the european union's interventionist strategy for the sub-saharan region is a threat to the peace and security of the peoples. the people of mali do not need foreign patrons or adoptees. what is needed is to be able to determine its own destiny freely, based on the internationalist solidarity of the peoples.
mr president, we are all aware that the rating agencies have failed. both in 2008 and in the european debt crisis, those who relied on the houses fell asleep and lost money. a lot of money. there are two characteristics of houses. their monopolistic market structure and lack of transparency. the failure of the houses should not, however, give the impression that the states and bureaucracies have achieved something better. houses are bad thermometers, but the thermometer rarely causes a fever. that is why i do not understand the proposals for the european public rating agency. what better way to do this than through the commission services, whose macroeconomic forecasts for the last five years have been totally wrong. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, eurobonds and other debt and loan-reciprocity instruments have now entered the public debate. the resolution and the debate today demonstrate that in order to serve our objectives of stability and growth we must assume common responsibilities, joint initiatives in solidarity and respect for common principles. initiatives that have to do with the union's budget, the balance between economies and the borrowing capacity of countries. we have already adopted measures and strategies to respect budgetary discipline, to strengthen competitiveness and also to supervise our banks. the next stage, in the context of a new budgetary structure, must be integrated economic policy and borrowing capacity. the asymmetries in our economies, the shocks currently affecting countries such as my country, greece, the limitation of the means of support for these countries, both from the union and from the member states, and the limitation of their own flexibility, obviously lead to the need to adopt instruments and instruments which facilitate borrowing, with balance, of course, and with the application of the principles of budgetary discipline. the eurobonds will facilitate the access of weaker countries to markets. they'll boost the liquidity. they'll help with the recovery. like the other instruments, the eurobonds, the debt amortisation fund will help to resolve the crisis, help to share risks and opportunities, and ultimately strengthen the euro and the credibility of the union. i thank sylvie goulard and all those who contributed to this resolution, and i stress the democratic legitimacy of the means we will receive, as the role of the european parliament and the national parliaments is mentioned.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, commissioner, i consider it a happy coincidence that we are discussing mr pallone's report on public finances today, on the same day as the very important debate we had earlier with the austrian chancellor, mr faymann, on the future of europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. this means in practice - and not just in words - growth-friendly budgetary programmes and structural change programmes which respect and do not undermine social rights, which promote competitive and comparative advantages and safeguard the european environmental acquis. the commission is aware that some countries which are implementing adjustment programmes are not in the equilibrium i have described, and i ask you to take action to try to ensure that this is the case. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial and monetary union is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 january at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the modernisation of state aid by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000213/2012 b7-0102/2012)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 january.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the permissible dimensions and weight of certain road vehicles by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-000221/2012 - b7-0104/2013)
the debate is closed. written statement (rule 149)
mr president, the irish presidency, with its emphasis on stability, growth and employment, is putting the experience gained during the economic crisis at the service of the european union. this experience seems to be really productive, together with the fact that you are referring to, namely your contribution to euro-atlantic relations, which can indeed be very positive because of the strong irish diaspora that exists in america. the success of ireland is shown by the fact that last thursday ireland took an important step towards disengaging from the memorandum. he sold five- and six-year bonds with total success. the messages from the service and high-tech sectors are very encouraging. the irish economy has started to produce again, so perhaps it can be an example for the rest of the weak links in the union. good luck with that.
madam president, i would like to warmly welcome the irish presidency and the presence here of prime minister kenney and the minister responsible, mr creighton. it is particularly important that ireland should take the lead in the european union at this difficult economic juncture. a country that has experienced the effects of the economic and debt crisis has every reason to move decisively on all open issues. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. from the banking union and the single banking mechanism to the digital economy, and from the review of the cap and the european asylum system to the review of the common fisheries policy. europe today is at a critical crossroads. the planning period is coming to an end. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the irish presidency's triad of stability, jobs and growth fully reflects the need at this juncture. only through job creation and growth will we be able to solve the problems of european citizens, and particularly those who have been hit hardest by the economic crisis, such as the young and the longterm unemployed. the most obvious key to this effort is the agreement between the council and parliament on the multiannual financial framework. an ambitious framework will give the european union the necessary impetus to overcome the current vicious cycle of recession and austerity. parliament has fought in this direction. i hope the irish presidency will find the golden mean to unlock the enormous growth potential of the new multiannual financial framework. madam president, i would like to ask a question: what are the objectives and to what extent does the irish presidency intend to push forward the single banking supervisory mechanism and the banking union which will allow for the direct recapitalisation of european banks and the easing of the budgetary burdens of the currently over-indebted member states?
mr nicholson, you asked for the floor. there is a procedural issue because if it is for catch the eye, as explained, we had more than 30 requests and it was practically impossible to respond to all of them, so thank you very much for your understanding.
i am now going to ask the president of the council, prime minister of ireland mr kenny, to take the floor, and again i will ask you to demonstrate some respect to him and to your colleagues.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the directive. its adoption is necessary in order to bring the legislation into line with the treaty of lisbon by conferring on the commission the power to adopt delegated acts as well as implementing acts. this directive regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions consisting of two or more substances (chemical elements and their compounds) and remains in full conformity with the united nations system of harmonised commodities. the increased delegation of competences at transnational level ensures better and more efficient controls, while creating a safer environment for citizens with regard to the hazard and safety of the relevant preparations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the dangerous preparations directive (dpd) regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions of two or more substances (chemical elements and their compounds). the changes made by the recast to directive 1999/45/ec were necessary and are all motivated by the need to update the proposal under the lisbon treaty to replace the old obsolete provisions with new ones.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs rosbach's report because i believe that the changes proposed to the regulation are important in order to create legal certainty. it is important that this regulation be brought into line with the treaty of lisbon by ensuring parliament's powers as legislator.
in writing. greece, like other eu member states, has in recent years been at the centre of the activities of credit rating agencies with a significant impact on their national economies. the regulation of their activities is the product of extensive and sometimes intense political debate. this proposal - the product of these discussions - focuses on the problem of investors' and issuers' over-reliance on the external ratings of these organisations and attempts to encourage the use of internal ratings, addressing the risk of financial market actors' over-reliance on credit ratings. the commission's proposal is therefore moving in the right direction and i voted in favour of it, but it can only be seen as the beginning of a comprehensive legislative package that the eu needs to limit the uncontrolled and in some cases arbitrary actions of these agencies.
in writing. the kke voted against the resolution because, under the pretext of tackling youth unemployment, it ends up strengthening the monopoly groups, with tax breaks, wage cuts, abolition of rights, in short intensifying the exploitation of the new shift of the working class to the utmost. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the newly created jobs are not replaced by new ones, and that the new jobs are not replaced by new ones. this scheme is already being implemented in greece, both by the current three-party nd-pasok-dimar government and by previous governments of capital, but also in other eu member states (a salary of 518 euros for young people up to 25 years old, ngos - trade offices, etc.). the struggle of the youth, the alliance with the kke and kne, for the overthrow of the power of the monopolies that generate unemployment and poverty, for the people's power and economy, is the only hope of the young people to throw off the yoke of exploitation, to live a life with rights that meet their needs
in writing. with youth unemployment in greece at 58% and in other member states remaining similarly high, and while the youth task forces set up about a year ago have not produced the expected results to date, it is clear that europe will need to seek and adopt more aggressive policies to tackle the phenomenon. the youth guarantees are not a job guarantee but a mechanism to ensure that all young eu citizens up to the age of 25 and those under 30 who have recently left education receive a quality job offer, the opportunity to continue their education or apprenticeship within four months of leaving formal education or becoming unemployed. it is a political commitment which is moving in the right direction and i voted in favour of it. however, europe and the member states have clearly not done enough. the next evaluation report on the implementation of the youth strategy, which i have the honour to present to the european parliament, will call for a clear and comprehensive policy framework to tackle youth unemployment.
in writing. the number of unemployed in the eu continues to rise, and youth unemployment in particular has skyrocketed. i therefore strongly support the commission's initiative to set up the council, during the employment and social affairs council in february 2013, with the aim of implementing youth guarantee schemes in all member states. it is essential that we do everything possible to increase substantially the employment opportunities for young people.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, on behalf of my political group i would like to stress that we consider the partnership agreement between the union and iraq to be essential. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union is not a party to the convention, but it is a party to the convention. i think it is very important that the agreement contains a specific clause on iraq's accession to the international criminal court. it is also clear that if iraq fails to make progress in this very sensitive area, then all cooperation and development programmes will be affected. the main challenge remains for the country to succeed in preserving its national cohesion and promoting national reconciliation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. access to basic services is essential. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. a political dialogue open to all communities will help to avoid tensions and help to find a comprehensive solution to the crucial problem of resource allocation. it is also important to have a strengthened dialogue with iraq's neighbours and to support initiatives aimed at consolidating the regional cooperation so necessary in this troubled region. there are many issues that concern us. the increase in the use of the death penalty is one of them. it is necessary, immediately, for the government to impose a moratorium on its abolition. secondly, the role of women. we believe as a political group that the position of women must be strengthened. we must somehow involve women in a meaningful way, not just in a formal way, at all levels of the country's reconstruction. the partnership agreement is both an invitation and a challenge to iraq. so we're waiting to see how this country is going to use it.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon written declarations (rule 149)
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the victims of recent fires in the textile industry, in particular in bangladesh (2012/2908 ((rsp))
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the needless deaths of some four hundred people in the two recent asian factory fires and, in particular, the recent fire at the taiz factory in bangladesh, should, i believe, cause concern for all consumers and provide a stimulus for putting pressure on these countries, not only on safety conditions but also on the restoration of conditions of global competition. unfortunately, the growing consumer demands of the west and the fierce competition are forcing large companies to move their production to asian countries, which are uncompetitive in relation to europe, as the monthly income of these workers in these regions is $37 or less than 1 euro a day. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i believe that instead of looking for competitive havens outside europe, we should create them within europe. we must demand that the minimum wage be applied worldwide and that it be commensurate with the living conditions of every worker. we cannot leave the markets unattended and come dressed as european citizens in clothes which are the products of the exploitation of young people, children in most cases, and often stained with blood. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
question of the day: blue card. mr president, since greece has been mentioned and i am from greece, i would like to ask, in full agreement with the reference to the indicators made by my colleague, the following: are you aware that in recent months in greece, at a very rapid pace, investigations have been carried out into corruption and that many people are already in prison, some of whom were well known in greek society and were ministers and members of the political system? are you aware of the laborious efforts made by the greek government and the greek judiciary in recent times? in the midst of this crisis, let's not level the playing field.
mr president, when in countries where there is a big problem with the crisis, with austerity, with the reduction of social spending, citizens see that some 120 billion euros are going into the black hole of corruption, you realise that at that moment citizens are questioning europe, questioning all of us, questioning our institutions. this means, among other things, the emergence of euroscepticism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. that means extremism. that means extreme, undemocratic behavior. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner, madam minister, is very important to talk about the creation of a european prosecutor's office, about the reform of olaf, so it is very important to deal with this issue at european level, at the appropriate level. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
mr president, the question of the rules of non-preferential origin of a product, that is to say, the additional duties to be paid for the circulation of that product in the european union, is a very important question for a very simple reason. because it is about unfair competition. for reasons of transparency, but also for reasons of safety, consumers have the right and the duty to know where the product they are buying is produced. the european companies must also be protected in cases where they are channelled into the european market as so-called european products, products produced by exploiting cheap labour, without social protection and in a possibly unsafe way in third countries. finally, the lack of a clear legal basis leads to non-imposition of anti-dumping duties, non-compensatory duties and thus deprives the european union of revenue. so we have to look very carefully at how we define the last substantial processing of a product. we need simple, honest and understandable rules.
madam president, commissioner, as the european aviation landscape continues to change under the weight of fuel prices and low-cost models, it is in principle the responsibility of the union to safeguard passenger rights and a fair competitive environment. the spread of the one-bag rule bypasses the web of existing passenger rights, air fares and state aid provisions and is a problem that must be addressed, because, inter alia: firstly, it has created a system of generalised confusion among passengers, with consumer representatives talking about a major problem, secondly, many airports rely on store sales for a significant part of their revenue and therefore the unilateral application of the one-bag rule for them is a fundamental change in their business model, and of course for many other reasons an immediate and harmonised regulation is required and not just the application of consumer information.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. an agricultural product imported from third countries, where the production costs are significantly lower, may be marketed in the european union as european once it has undergone processing in a member state of the union, even if this processing does not change the particular characteristics or the specific texture of the primary product. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. consumer protection and fair competition are not protectionism but an obligation of the union.
the european union is putting pressure on mercosur to finally accept the conclusion of a free trade agreement. the european union's economic and political side of its imperialist policy, which is carried out elsewhere by brute force. the european union wants to overcome popular resistance because the agreements impose privatizations, the seizure of raw materials and markets for european union industrial products and services at the expense of local ones. they are accompanied by the plundering of the productive base, the intensification of exploitation, the destruction of the poor peasants, the workers of the land and the indigenous peoples. it causes wounds in the environment. the majority of the european parliament, by means of a joint resolution, supports the attempts of the european union's monopolies to get out of the capitalist crisis on the backs of the peoples. but this policy is also dangerous. i say this because it promotes confrontation between the countries of the region, undermines celac, the governments of cuba and venezuela who are resisting these plans. at the same time, it is intensifying competition with the us and the brics countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to give its opinion on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year. the problem is not only a humanitarian one, but it also violates the conditions of fair competition and is destroying the textile and clothing industries in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is moving in the right direction towards security and regional stability in the middle east region. i agree with and welcome the eu proposal to establish a zone free of weapons of mass destruction (wmd) in the middle east. the recent developments in the region are worrying and i believe that the necessary steps must be taken to build confidence at regional level in order to achieve the long-term goal of a middle east free of military conflict.
mr president, three weeks ago caroline, a 14-year-old student from italy, took her own life. she could not stand the psychological pressure of being insulted and bullied by her classmates. it is not the only, nor the first, tragic victim of a sickening phenomenon which in recent years has been growing dangerously in frequency, extent and intensity. the dramatic social consequences of the crisis are fuelling the phenomenon of psychological, verbal and physical violence among students. the anonymity of the internet gives new dimensions to the phenomenon; it makes it even more poisonous, even more dangerous. prevention is the safest course of action. but it requires information and knowledge. this is the aim of the proposal for a european day against violence and bullying at school, which was adopted by the majority of colleagues. our goal: not one student to be a victim of violence and bullying in school. thank you very much for your support, especially those who have been by my side since the beginning of this initiative. today, here in the european parliament, we have won a battle. we'll win the war.
the rapporteur. - the the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the proposal for a regulation now before the house is a further amendment or recast of the system introduced in 1993 and subsequently amended several times, most recently in 2006. the agricultural production of the aegean islands should be geared to promoting synergies between the local agricultural economy and tourism development, as well as the preservation of the natural and cultural wealth of the area. the dispersion of the islands is a barrier to supply and trade, dramatically increasing transportation costs. the existing transport networks are characterised by inadequacies and structural weaknesses, creating conditions of 'dual insularity', as the smaller islands are supplied via other main islands. the small size, the inaccessibility both externally and internally, the declining and ageing population, the lack of basic raw materials and public goods (water, electricity, fuel), as well as the geophysical and climatic conditions (rocky soil, fragmented agricultural holdings, and drought and strong winds respectively) make up the highly peculiar environment of the small aegean islands; this is why special measures are needed. addressing the persistent and structural difficulties of the aegean islands' agricultural sector requires a systemic approach, a thorough analysis of needs and a clear strategic orientation. the concept of agricultural activity, in its most modern sense, is inextricably linked to sustainable economic, social and ecological development. in addition to the particular difficulties which characterise the agricultural production of the small aegean islands, these islands are also the recipients of external (illegal) migratory pressures. the aid scheme for the smaller aegean islands cannot, in its present form, respond individually to the above challenges, nor unfortunately to the extension of its territorial scope, i.e. to include the islands of crete and euboea. we look forward with great interest to the next legislative initiative from the european commission to proceed with a substantial reform of the programme. in conclusion, i would like to thank the danish and cypriot presidencies of the council, the european commission and the shadow rapporteurs of the other political groups for the fruitful and constructive cooperation we have had.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, i would like to thank the colleagues who supported the improvements we proposed to the rules of procedure. the aim was and remains to ensure the greatest possible synergy of all the elements that can be exploited. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the islands are not left to the mercy of the sea, and that is why we are proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the islands of the canary islands. we therefore proposed that the commission should consider the prospect of an integrated plan for sustainable development of the islands, which would make use of the cultural heritage and environmental significance of the small aegean islands. we have proposed that the synergy that tourism can offer in the use of local genetic and reproductive material should be exploited. it is a good start and i invite you to support it in the vote. on this occasion, madam vice-president of the commission, and independently of this regulation and posei, and in the spirit of article 174 of the lisbon treaty on insularity, it would be appropriate to introduce measures to support producers in order to cope with the particularly serious transport costs of the other islands: crete, ionia, sardinia, the balearic islands, etc.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, it is important that insularity is taken into account in the policies of regional development, territorial and social cohesion, and agricultural and rural development. many of the islands we are talking about are islands which have important natural systems, but also high value agricultural activity adapted to local conditions. however, the islands often face insurmountable problems of coastal shipping connections, and even if these problems are addressed, there is a very high transport cost. this is why measures are needed which will reduce transport costs but also boost production and processing in these islands. we believe that the regulation should, through its measures, promote local, traditional and organic agricultural production and draw on the wisdom and knowledge of local communities in the processing and preservation of products, link agriculture with livestock farming and enhance the genetic diversity of these areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products. for example, the dimensions of slaughterhouses or cheese factories do not correspond to the realities that exist on the islands. and this often forces farmers to transport animals by ship and truck for many hours when a few days ago we were discussing here the reduction of the transport time of animals before slaughter.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this aid must not be at the expense of aid to local production. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the production of cereals, which is the main reason why the commission has decided to grant aid to the producers of cereals in the aegean.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fight is based on the solidarity of the islanders, the poor farmers, for their rights and for the development of the islands for their benefit. the regulation and the report do not provide a solution to the explosive problems facing the workers and poor farmers of the islands, precisely because the anti-people policy of the eu and the governments of capital in greece is what is exacerbating them. one of the many examples is the desperation of chios mastic growers who have so far received no compensation for the damage caused by the summer fires. the poor farmers are being weeded out of the cap. the situation is aggravated by the blockade and the blackmailing of shipowners. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a european shipowners' association, which would be a legal entity, to be set up in the member states. the productive and natural wealth, the experienced human resources of the greek islands, can only be used for the benefit of the workers if the means of production are socialised and if there is a break with the european union.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague mr papastamco on his report. the union has accepted the structural weaknesses of the geographical particularities of the small aegean islands in particular, which is certainly covered by the treaties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. agricultural production is facing great difficulties. across the country, farmers are reacting. and this has an even bigger impact on marginal crops, and many of the crops on the small islands are marginal because of the small herd. the additional support for local production, as proposed by the rapporteur, mr papastamkos, is particularly important at the present time. with unemployment in greece reaching 27%, many citizens are returning to the countryside and looking for ways to return to the small aegean islands. the aid will therefore have an increased economic and social impact in terms of employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i think this discussion has shown the interest that parliamentarians take in the outermost regions and the aegean islands, and their specific features. it is clear that production in difficult areas cannot be treated in the same way as production in the large fertile plains of central europe. i think that all of us in this house see agriculture in these difficult regions as an asset for european agriculture. a positive decision will therefore be good news for all europeans, especially for those who live in these regions and want to continue living there. let me once again warmly thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work and the cooperation they have shown throughout this legislative process.
the rapporteur. - the madam president, to a voice that has gone off the mark, i would like to say, paraphrasing, that 'blessed are the poor in spirit'. we must distinguish, ladies and gentlemen, between an integrated, coordinated european union island policy towards the european union's island groups and islands, which could be subsumed under the european union's regional policy, particularly as regards the third component of the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have expressed the wish that the territorial scope be extended to include all the islands of the aegean and ionian seas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as for the citizens of the outlying regions of the european union, particularly in the troubled south of europe, they are in great need - and they are demonstrating this - of 'more' europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. these special measures are necessary and justified by the particular circumstances of the territorial discontinuity and fragmentation of the aegean island group. the european union has therefore drawn up this programme, which needs to be completed as a proposal for a regulation by the commission, since our journey so far has led us to draw certain conclusions about where we should go in the future. i would like to thank you, madam vice-president of the commission, for your contribution to this constructive debate.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 5 february 2013, at 12.40.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the committee on the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls by mr mikael gustafsson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000004/2013 - b7-0111/2013).
commissioner reding, your struggles for women are well known and i thank you for that. that is why i am taking the floor and i want to inform you, commissioner, and the european parliament that in a member state of the european union, greece, there are women lawyers, and in particular a woman lawyer and member of the greek parliament who defends in court the rapists of women. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would ask you, commissioner, what is your view on this? what are we going to do to protect women from this kind of behavior that should be eradicated?
mr president, from what i've heard, i applaud all of it. violence against women in the family, in schools, in the workplace has taken on explosive proportions in recent times and i want to put this issue as a factor of disruption of the balance in society. the women as mothers have a leading role in the education of young people and in the formation and development of society and the younger generations. so it's not unfortunate that the rise in mental illness is linked to the treatment we receive at a young age. it has been shown that young people who have lived in a stable family environment, without domestic violence especially against the mother and women, have a better position in society and a greater balance. a family of peaceful coexistence makes good citizens. in greece we say that we don't hit a woman with a flower. i hope, mr president, that this will be done. i personally condemn violence against women and support all the commissioner's efforts. i'm a supporter of her work to combat violence.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i agree with all the men and women who have stood up in this house to speak out against violence, against the negation of the human rights of women and against the crime most commonly committed against 50% of our population. because i agree with all of you, i also agree with all those who are outside this house. that is why on 14 february i will be proud to be one of the billion people around the world who will race on v-day as part of a global movement to end violence against women in order to say clearly that we no longer accept it and that we would like our legal systems to function as they should. we would like our practitioners to get special training and we would like all our member states to apply the legislation to help the victims of this commonly perpetrated crime against women. i would like to tell them that we are not only there to protest or to fight crime with words. we are there to act. we are there to act, for instance, when our member states do not ratify the council of europe’s convention. this is the first international instrument which is legally binding. seventeen member states have signed it, but only one, portugal, has ratified it. so i ask all of those here who are not portuguese to go to their governments, their national parliaments and their media and protest in their member states, asking why on earth our member states have not ratified the first international legally binding instrument against violence against women. what are they afraid of? do our legal systems in our member states work or not? if they work, then nobody, no member state, has to be afraid of ratifying the convention of the council of europe. yes, we need action. we need action, for instance, so that all the good work which has long been carried out in the daphne programme can continue. are we going to take a stand if some people want to cut funding to initiatives within the daphne programme? i myself have not reduced the money available to the programme and i have added money from the justice budget. we need to take action to train our justice practitioners so that when they are confronted with violence – and they will be confronted, as even if we speak up and even if we pass another resolution, there will be violence – they will to know how to deal with it. we need those who perpetrate this violence to understand that they cannot go unpunished and the victims to know that they will have a helping hand. so, yes, we do need action. to all those who said that we do not need action only inside the european union but also outside it: yes, i agree. that this is why my colleagues, baroness ashton, ms georgieva and mr piebalgs, who are responsible for approving the disbursement of funds for projects which help women, have joined forces to speak up. lady ashton is doing it regularly in her bilateral meetings, and ms georgieva and mr piebalgs are helping victims. mr piebalgs is building up a society in third countries where women can have their rights. yes, that is action. you also asked me about supplementary action. you asked me for a strategy and you asked me for a directive on violence with minimum standards. did you listen to what ms pietikäinen has just said? she underlined that, unfortunately, it is not possible to have a directive on violence with minimum standards because this area does not fall within the eu’s competence. look at article 83 of the treaty and see what is possible under this article and then look at what you have on the table, at what has been done so far. you will see that we have the most wide-ranging strategy we have ever had, a strategy of action, a strategy taking action in favour of victims, important laws which have been agreed and which have already been published in the official journal, because you have done your work here. you have helped us to get these directives agreed. we have to make the member states aware of the fact that they must implement them. that is our common strategy, to ensure that our actions make a difference. to maximise the impact we will keep focusing on concrete action in areas where we do have a clear legal basis, and that will yield tangible results. because we do not help those women who are victims if we write yet more pretty words; they need clear action in our member states and the actions we have prepared for them. the action to protect of victims of gender-based violence, which is included in the directive on victims, and has been quoted in different terms by many around this house saying what we need to do in such and such areas – all this possible action is included in this directive. so what needs to be done to help the specific cases which have been brought to our attention? all the specific cases are crimes – it is a scandal that they happen. but we need to reach out to the victims in order to help them, because by helping the victims we can show that we do not leave anybody who has been a victim of crime alone, no woman is left helpless. i think that will be the answer given by this parliament, and we can work together on this both in this house and outside. another very important thing which each of you can do in your member state is to say to your national media that yes, there is a scandal here. but the main scandal is that the laws that we have all been deciding together are improperly implemented and that the legal professions are not properly trained to implement the laws in such a way that there are no more women saying: yes, i was ill-treated; yes, i was raped; yes, i was punished although i did nothing wrong, and nobody helped me. no, we have the laws in order to help them, so help me implement the laws in the member states.
i have received a motion for a resolution1under rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 february 2013 at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
the next item is the report by mr philippe de backer, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on improving access to finance for smes (com (2011) 0870 - 2012/2134 (ini)) (a7-0001/2013).
mr president, when the economic crisis hit europe, the first door it knocked on was the door of small and mediumsized enterprises. small and mediumsized enterprises are easy to set up, but very difficult to maintain. to survive, a small and mediumsized enterprise needs two things: it needs financing; it needs to be able to operate without the aid of the public authorities; it needs to be able to operate without the aid of the private sector. the commission has also proposed that the administrative burden on the member states be reduced. to get financing, he needs access to banks and access to venture capital. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the second is the administrative side. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. but i do want to make one point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, do the best you can. smes are the backbone of europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the reason is prime minister cameron's recent announcement to hold a referendum in 2017 on the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. this announcement, which comes as crucial decisions are about to be taken on the new community budget, the deepening of the eurozone and, ultimately, the future of europe, is strongly characterized by negotiating blackmail. it is a highly risky game of unnecessarily divisive dilemmas, adding to the confusion and anxiety of european citizens at a time when they need stability, unity and solidarity. the european parliament has a great responsibility in these circumstances to give the citizens of europe a clear direction and a clear perspective. we must respond if we do not want to see europe rapidly regressing today.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the text of mrs rodust's proposal is very satisfactory and there are also reasonable amendments which i believe will be voted on tomorrow, so that we can arrive at a new fisheries policy for europe for the next ten years. according to available data, 75% of the union's fish stocks are overfished, and more than 60% of european waters are fished beyond their maximum sustainable yield. the overcapacity of the fleet, the lack of control, the lack of reliable scientific data and the failure of the member states to comply with scientific advice for a number of years are some of the problems we have to solve. the european union loses around €2 billion in potential revenue every year because it cannot manage its fisheries sustainably. the introduction of maximum sustainable yield, as adopted by the committee on fisheries, will, i believe, bring significant economic, environmental and social benefits. the proposal to ban waste is also generally considered to be a good one, since no one wants to waste resources, especially in the difficult economic circumstances we are living in. however, we must be careful about the socioeconomic impact of this measure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's budgetary powers are not undermined, and that the budgetary authority is able to take action in the event of a dispute between the commission and the council.
mr president, our european fishermen can no longer make ends meet. there is not enough fish in our seas, and tomorrow’s vote is our last chance to change this. i fully support the commissioner’s proposal on msy and the discard ban. however, madam commissioner, there was a key measure missing from your proposal. with your help, and a lot of work from colleagues, we managed to get parliament’s proposal through, namely the establishment of fish stock recovery areas. this will allow us to restore levels of fish and increase the income of fishermen throughout the european union by increasing both the quantity and the size of fish caught. these areas will be identified and co-managed by local fishermen. a unique sense of ownership of the sea and its resources and a real form of rationalisation will be established. i want to call upon all members of this parliament to give this measure some teeth and vote for amendment 253. this is the main novel idea that parliament is introducing in this regulation. give fish and fishermen a chance. vote for amendment 253.
in writing. the committee voted in favour of the report and against the compromise proposal with the council, which was tabled at the last minute (although it had already been agreed) by the rapporteur of the european parliament, because it worsened the existing regulation and even the commission's proposal. not only does it keep the funds for aid at the level of the previous decade, but it increases the amount of aid for the supply of products, to the detriment of aid for agricultural production. it thus favours monopoly trading enterprises and harms the poor and middle-class farmers and small businessmen and artisans of the islands. at the same time, it adds registration requirements, certificates and other bureaucratic procedures, which effectively exclude small farmers and professionals, in favour of large companies, and gives more powers to the european commission to determine, in the name of compliance with eu rules, the direction of aid. the political representatives of the monopolies in the european parliament have once again played the well-known game of deceiving the workers. once again it is being shown that the cause of the dramatic increase in all the people's problems - and the problems of the workers, the islanders - is the anti-people policy of the eu, over time, of governments, of capital and of the current three-party government, which crushes the people to keep the profits of the monopolies intact.
in writing. small and mediumsized enterprises in europe account for 98% of all enterprises, while in greece before the crisis this figure was 99%. the economic crisis, however, has revealed that smes are a very vulnerable group which is particularly exposed to situations where the flow of small loans and credits is interrupted. in the same context, this category of enterprises is dramatically affected by delays in payments to them. in fact, due to stricter capital requirements, creditors often require additional personal guarantees in addition to standard bank guarantees, making the financial environment for smes stifling. the present report, which i voted in favour of, identifies these threats and, in addition to welcoming the 'action plan to improve access to finance for smes' adopted by the commission, makes further proposals, such as the creation of additional alternative financing mechanisms and the activation of household and business savings, for example by introducing tax incentives.
the question is "blue card". as you know very well, and as we all know here, mr langen, greece has taken full responsibility for the great economic difficulties it is facing and for the last three years has been implementing a very tough programme - unfortunately mainly - of fiscal adjustment and not so much of structural reforms. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 1994 to 1999 is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take account of the fact that the member states are not yet in a position to take account of the need to ensure that the financial instruments are used effectively.
madam president, commissioners, we all agree in theory that we need a growth-friendly fiscal adjustment, but we disagree on how to put it into practice... i think there is a question of inconsistency in words and deeds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have countries implementing fiscal adjustment programmes and suffering from deep recession and huge unemployment. we know their numbers. i don't know if we know what these numbers mean to people. but, commissioner rehn, these countries are excluded from the analysis of macroeconomic imbalances in the context of the six-month period. under the country's name is just one phrase: "implement the program". i would therefore like to stress that this excludes both dialogue and efficiency checks and exacerbates the problem of democratic legitimacy and accountability. i would therefore urge you to include the countries in the programme in the analysis process of the european semester.
mr president, the european semester is at the heart of a new governance of coordination and cohesion. in recent years we have all become aware of the interdependence of our economies and of our shared responsibility for the common effort towards stability and growth. the european semester brings the representatives of european citizens in national parliaments closer to the european vision, common policies, the need for the proper and complementary management of european and national resources. it is also a way of bringing us, the european institutions, closer to national realities. the recommendations issued for each country must therefore take account of the uneven economic and social conditions currently prevailing in europe, which have been widened by the crisis. our experience has shown today that the great challenge is how to achieve a better recipe in the balance of policies for fiscal consolidation and growth with jobs. the social consequences of this continuous search for a development balance without results are serious. it is bad for the credibility of european citizens towards the union; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. economic indicators must be complemented by social indicators in order to be able to propose sustainable policies. the european semester has the challenge of proving effective. we cannot make the mistakes of multipliers and bad stabilizers that have been applied in countries with a fiscal adjustment programme like greece. the european union cannot allow such mistakes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 february 2013 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on - oral question to the council on the preparations for the 16th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade [2012/2838 (rsp) ] by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000201/2012 - b7-0109/2013), - oral question to the commission on the preparations for the 16th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade [2012/2838 (rsp) ] by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000207/2012 - b110/2013)
mr president, an increasing number of countries in the european union are supporting the us proposal to include polar bears in appendix i of cites. we have now poland, germany, the uk, and austria behind this proposal, as well as the netherlands, which yesterday pledged its support, and i am pretty confident that my country, greece, will also do so. however, we understand that the commission has so far taken a negative stance regarding this proposal, and i would like to ask the commissioner why this has been so. polar bears are facing a growing number of threats: climate change, loss of habitats, pollution and all forms of development. they cannot afford to face, on top of all this, the threat from trade, of being killed for their fur and body parts. furthermore i, like other colleagues, was once again disappointed at the lack of a proposal to include bluefin tuna in appendix i. we all know very well that this might lead to the extinction of this key species, and i hope that the commission will take initiatives to remedy this.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hohlmeier, on her excellent report. the prolonged crisis in the european union, ladies and gentlemen, continues to cast a shadow over the debate and the drawing up of guidelines for the administrative budget of the institutions of the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. as regards the budget of the european parliament, i would argue that the structural and organisational reforms which have led to considerable savings should be continued without jeopardising its legislative activity. the main message we should send is that the european parliament is making its greatest contribution to the efforts to rationalise the budget at european level, while trying to maintain a high level of legislative work and fulfilling its role as the only directly elected body of the european union, which defends and promotes the interests of the citizens of the european union.
mr president, the so-called corporate social responsibility, together with the manipulation of workers, is an attempt to surrender to the irresistible will of the monopoly groups the application of any social and labour rights that have remained standing. but look at how the government in greece understands this aspect: to save the profitability of the shipowners, the government today has proceeded to a political mobilization of the seamen, while a few hours ago it had sent the forces of the police against thousands of farmers. the shipyard workers are fighting against the bill that abolishes collective bargaining, demolishes social security and privatizes ports. the farmers are resisting their extermination by the cap and government policy. the drafting of the metro strikers and the prosecution of dozens of trade unionists on trumped-up charges preceded this. the escalation of government authoritarianism is the only way to impose barbaric policy. the government, invoking social responsibility, is trying to impose the "law and order" of the monopolies against the workers.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. while we understand the member states' efforts to rationalise, we in the european parliament will not tire of arguing that the eu's long-term budget is a strategic tool for investment, a strategic tool for boosting growth and competitiveness and, of course, a strategic tool for job creation across europe. i would like to express my concern at this point that the negotiations in the european council will start from where they left off in november, namely the second van rooy proposal proposing cuts of 75 billion, and not from the european commission proposal, as they should logically have done. the commission proposal, without taking into account the accession of croatia, provides for eur 8.6 billion less in real terms than the freezing of the ceilings of the next programming period at the level of the 2013 budget. in short, the already reduced proposal put forward by the commission is further undermined by the van rooy proposals, particularly at a time when we undoubtedly need more europe. that is why we in the european parliament are talking about 'better investing' and we are calling for adequate funding from the community budget. we hope the council will listen to us.
the next item is voting time. (for the results and other votes on the votes: see minutes) the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left to the detriment of the environment, and that the fisheries sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. (parliament agreed to the postponement of the vote)
the next item is the continuation of the vote. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, the comments are the words of those who make them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report approving the commission proposal. the european employment strategy provides more coherent and precise guidance to member states in defining national reform programmes. its main points are to increase labour market participation and reduce structural unemployment, develop a skilled workforce that responds to labour market needs, promote quality jobs and lifelong learning, improve the performance of education and training systems at all levels and increase participation in higher education, and promote social inclusion and combat poverty. however, in order to achieve the above objectives, member states, in particular those that are in financial straits and cannot mobilise resources for employment, such as greece, should make full use of the tools and financial instruments offered in particular through the european social fund. greece is already mobilising around eur 750 million to tackle youth unemployment; however, there are still a number of resources that should be mobilised before the completion of the current multiannual financial framework ending in 2013.
in writing. i voted against the parvanova report despite the improvements it has made in some areas to the unacceptable proposal for a directive from the european commission. i find the following points particularly problematic: i am sorry to say that the house today rejected the double legal basis (articles 114 and 168) by retaining only article 114 and thereby undermining the responsibility of the member states for their national health insurance schemes, which is their responsibility under article 168. the european commission shall impose penalties in the event of failure to meet the deadlines for reimbursement of expenditure. this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and poses a major problem for insurance funds. it undermines the ability of the pricing and reimbursement authorities to fulfil their mission to protect public health and adds unnecessary administrative and financial burdens to public health systems that will jeopardise their viability and patients' access to safe medicines. 3. member states shall be prohibited, in the context of pricing and reimbursement decisions, from reassessing the elements on which the marketing authorisation was based, including the efficacy, quality or safety of the medicinal product. unfortunately, the amendments tabled by my group to delete these provisions have been rejected.
in writing. the general objective of this proposal is to modernise the legislative framework in order to clarify the procedural obligations of the member states to prevent obstacles to trade in medicinal products. it is recalled that the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products is the sole responsibility of the member states; however, minimum provisions should be laid down to ensure legal certainty and transparency for the competent national authorities in relation to the manufacture of medicinal products and the placing on the market of generic medicinal products. the european parliament, with this report, which i voted in favour of, supports the approach proposed by the european commission to provide for double and differentiated deadlines for the invoicing and reimbursement of medicines, while at the same time providing an incentive for the implementation of health technology assessment which will support the definition of safe and effective health policies that put patients at the centre and aim to achieve optimum price.
in writing. the committee voted against the commission's proposal and report on the revision of the common fisheries policy (cfp) because it aims to restructure the fishing industry more intensively by further destroying small-scale fisheries - which has already largely been done with the current cfp - and by strengthening large fishing fleets and aquaculture monopolies. the ban on waste is conducive to monopolistic concentration. the landing obligation and the increase in selectivity are intended to reduce traditional fishing in order to encourage the development of aquaculture enterprises. the eu and its member states' governments can use the findings on discard levels, overfishing, poor compliance, overexploitation of fish stocks, impacts on small coastal communities, etc., as a pretext to accelerate the eradication of coastal and inland fisheries. the development of sustainable fisheries to meet the needs of the people requires the socialization of monopolies. popular power and economy, which, through centralised planning of fisheries production and the leverage of the fisheries production cooperative, will ensure the people's nutritional needs in fishery products, in accordance with the fishing possibilities available, with respect for the requirements of fish stocks, ecosystems and the environment.
ladies and gentlemen, we will now take the explanations of vote for three more reports: the report by mr gallagher on the conservation of fishery resources; the resolution on the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls; and the report by ms liotard on the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing. all the other explanations of vote will be taken tomorrow. i shall start with the gallagher report.
in writing. the aim of this report is to protect public health and the environment through measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. i voted in favour of the report which, in order to achieve this, proposes and introduces a new test method for measuring the noise level of these vehicles and noise limit values for different categories of light, medium and heavy vehicles. the european parliament also adds two important provisions which were not included in the commission's original proposal. first, the introduction of a vehicle noise labelling system to promote low noise vehicles and to enable consumers to make an informed choice before buying a vehicle. secondly, the introduction of a road classification system which would enable member states and national and local authorities to monitor and assess more effectively the quality of their road surfaces with a view to reducing the impact on the general noise levels.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on budgets has voted against the two reports on increasing the eu's contribution to projects financed by the reactive funds of the eu's migration policy for eu member states which are in a 'memorandum', such as greece. these are the funds that implement all the reactionary political decisions to strengthen the repressive mechanisms, the eu programmes and the governments of capital over time and the three-party nd-pasok-dimar government, such as the evros bridge, the concentration camps for migrants, the guarding of the borders by frontex forces, the mass deportations of migrants to their countries of origin, even when their lives are in danger. the aim of the increase in eu co-financing is to ensure that the repression against migrants continues unabated. as the explanatory memorandum to both legislative proposals states in detail: ... renovation of detention centres in poor condition and improvement of technical equipment necessary for effective border surveillance. ... member states facing significant economic challenges can carry out migration management tasks. the eu wants controlled immigration, immigration - hostage to supply capital with cheap labour.
in writing. this decision supports the major efforts made by greece in recent times to combat illegal immigration. and it is important that, in cooperation with the rapporteurs of the other political groups, the european commission and the council, we have moved ahead and completed the process very quickly so that the country can immediately benefit from the new provisions. by increasing the community funding rates, greece will be able to support projects that until now have required greater national involvement and which, due to the economic crisis, have been impossible to finance on its own, such as the renovation of detention centres and the improvement of technical equipment necessary for effective border surveillance. it is encouraging that our partners are increasingly recognising the need to show solidarity with member states such as ours, which often bear a disproportionate burden on behalf of the eu as a whole in dealing with illegal immigration flows. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. this decision supports the major efforts made by greece in recent times to combat illegal immigration. and it is important that, in cooperation with the rapporteurs of the other political groups, the european commission and the council, we have moved ahead and completed the process very quickly so that the country can immediately benefit from the new provisions. by increasing the community funding rates, greece will be able to support projects that until now have required greater national involvement and which, due to the economic crisis, have been impossible to finance on its own, such as the renovation of detention centres and the improvement of technical equipment necessary for effective border surveillance. it is encouraging that our partners are increasingly recognising the need to show solidarity with member states such as ours, which often bear a disproportionate burden on behalf of the eu as a whole in dealing with illegal immigration flows. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
that concludes the vote.
mr president, in order to look at the kurdish problem, we must look at the human rights situation in turkey as a whole, because it is an integral part of it. after all these years it is clear that this conflict between the kurdish people and the turkish government must be brought to an end. the fact that mr erdoğan has taken the initiative of direct talks means that it has become clear that the solution to this problem can only be found through political dialogue and not through violence. the situation in turkey is not encouraging in this respect. and that's because many kurdish prisoners are still being held in prisons for long periods of time and without trial. the continuing arrests we see every day are not helping to create a common ground. on the other hand, the murders of three pkk activists in paris may reinvigorate an already fragile climate. the point is that the talks must move forward and the solutions proposed must take account of the common interest as well as the dignity and future of the kurdish people. the basic rights of the kurds must be respected. turkey is in the process of profound change, at a great crossroads. it is up to the individual to decide whether he or she wants to become a modern democratic society with respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of its citizens. it is up to it to resolve this longstanding issue which is of great importance not only to itself but also to the stability and peace of the wider region.
mr president, i hope that the turkish government's recent opening up on the kurdish question and the ending of a conflict which has cost thousands of lives since 1984 is sincere. given that the kurds constitute 15 to 20% of turkey's population of 75 million, it is clear that the resolution of the kurdish issue is of major geopolitical importance for security and stability in the region. this is reinforced when we consider that the kurdish question involves the territories of four countries, all of which are currently in turmoil. we condemn the recent murder of three kurdish activists in paris. this heinous crime raises concerns about the prospects for negotiations. we are also concerned about the large-scale arrests of kurdish elected representatives and prominent dissidents. but we also condemn any act of indiscriminate violence. we believe in a peaceful solution to the problem and support a political solution to the kurdish question through democratic dialogue, constitutional reform and non-discriminatory justice.
the commission's proposals are not only a good way of dealing with the problem of the kurdish people, but also a way of dealing with the problem of the kurdish people. of course the problem is old, it hasn't come up now. it has caused many thousands of casualties on the kurdish side and on the turkish side. it is therefore right and just to seek a solution through discussion and consultation. it is true that turkey has made some progress in recent years, but this progress does not yet correspond to european standards of democracy. the turkish government's attempt to open a dialogue with the kurdish side must be supported by our own side. the council and the european commission and parliament must support this. the references made each year in the parliament's report by mrs oomen-ruijten are clear. and this is the direction. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i think we all support this effort, we are all deeply saddened by what happened in paris, by the murder of the three women activists, which was probably motivated by other things, namely to undermine the dialogue that has begun between the kurdish side and the turkish state. it is a fact, mr president, that in turkey certain things are not recognized. it has been said before that turkey does not recognise a member state of the union. this does not mean that we do not want close relations with turkey and progress on its accession. but it must also - and this is the message we must send - continue the dialogue. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training.
madam president, cop after cop the negotiations do progress, but it is clear that the pace of progress is slower than we need if we are to be realistically optimistic about a global agreement for 2015. we need to speed up, both in the eu and internationally. in the eu we have made a mistake and are only just now starting to realise it. we have spoken to our people too much about the actions we are taking and too little about what other nations are doing. we have created a fake conviction that only the eu is taking action and all the others are sticking to their old policies. this is now becoming the excuse for inaction within the eu. we urgently need to end this misinformation and to tell the truth, which is that every year new legislation is being adopted and implemented in almost every country in the world regarding climate change. i urge the commissioner to take the lead in communicating this message to our people. it will seriously help us speed up the pace of negotiations and give the global climate agreement a chance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a measure that comes at a time when on the one hand public revenues are being lost through tax evasion and vat fraud and at the same time as austerity measures are still pressing budgets and affecting the incomes and interests of workers. but, commissioner, this measure is not only late but also inadequate. there is a social justice issue more generally in tax policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayers' money is not used for the purposes of tax evasion. the commission has therefore rightly taken this measure and we will support it. but the commission is exposed because it has been late in dealing with the issue of tax policy more generally. this measure must be watched carefully, because, as you know, commissioner, and ladies and gentlemen, the speed with which fraud is dealt with is faster than the measures taken to combat it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the present tax system, commissioner, generally works in favour of multinationals and at the expense of workers and small and mediumsized enterprises.
president of the european investment bank. − mr president, it is a real pleasure and honour for me to be here to report to you about 2011 and to have a look into the future of the bank and the activities which, in particular together with the european commission, we are proposing for 2013 and beyond. we feel – and we are – accountable to european citizens for the activities of the bank. that means that we are accountable to the european parliament as well. therefore this is a very good opportunity for me to thank you for the support we have received from the european parliament over all these years, in particular in the very difficult time which we had to go through and which we are still going through. the crisis is not over yet. we are seeing the first good signs that we might be seeing light at the end of the tunnel, but we still need to perform in a very difficult situation. that means that the european investment bank with its instruments can, together with the commission and the european institutions, make a difference. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mauro, for a very thorough and well balanced report on the activities of the european investment bank in 2011. i also thank the shadow rapporteurs and the many other members of this parliament who have been involved in this report and have cooperated so well with the eib. in terms of the internal activities of the eib and outside it, we consider the european parliament our main ally and i thank you for that. 2011 is a long time ago, but nevertheless it is important to go back to that year to understand the fundamental changes that happened at the eib in 2012. those changes prepare us for the years to come – at least the next three years – as outlined in our corporate operational plan which was decided by the board in december 2012. in 2011 the eib was scaling down its business after the huge extraordinary effort that the bank had made following the lehman brothers crisis. consequently the bank had to reduce its lending volumes after those critical years. this was a decision made by the board of governors and the finance ministers of the european union. but, as we all know, the lehman brothers crisis was followed by a deep sovereign debt crisis. so, at the request and with the support of our shareholders, we charted a new course for the bank. we positioned it for another three-year phase of increased funding and lending operations. to put this into figures, we plan to lend around eur 60 billion in additional money over the next three years, bringing the annual lending for 2013-2015 to a volume of about eur 65 billion to eur 70 billion per year. enhancing our activities was in accordance with the macroeconomic convictions of our shareholders, as well as of the management of the bank. this was made possible because of the decision of our shareholders to strengthen our capital base by increasing the paid-in capital by eur 10 billion. this has created the conditions that will enable us to carry out this task over the next three years. i thank the european parliament for its support and i also thank the members of the national parliaments who supported this, because we needed unanimity in 27 member states and, in many member states, we needed the support of the national parliaments in budgetary decisions. this was given on the last day of 2012 – so it was not a given thing that it would work in 2012. i am very grateful for your support. so where do we stand now? for me there is no doubt that the eib, the eu bank, is making an extremely important contribution to overcoming the crisis. but allow me to make a personal comment. although we are observing the first signs showing that the worst might be over, for me this crisis will not be over until there are signs that the situation is also easing on the labour markets in those countries that have been hit hardest by this crisis. however, what we are seeing is that some stability has been achieved and also most definitely a number of successes. we are operating together with other european institutions. we are not the european central bank, which is taking care of the liquidity of our monetary system. we are not the esm, which is so important for dealing with the debt situation. but the european institutions are giving a coherent answer to the crisis, together with the commission and the eurogroup. this is important as it also shows the outside world that europe is acting in a coherent way. so the key message here is clear. we are proud to be a part of this coordinated european approach. we have a special role. we are not a bailout bank, we are not the bank of the programme countries or the bank of the eurozone, we are the bank of the 27 member states of the european union. this is a key nuance. economic conditions in the investment environment vary from country to country and we need to provide the right instruments to ensure the maximum impact of eib activity in lending, leveraging eu budgetary funds with our loans or technical advice. besides that, our business is designed on four pillars, more or less equally distributed between strategic infrastructure projects, investments in research and development, climate action activities and the support of small and medium-sized enterprises. to ensure all this, our performance must be differentiated, creative on the tools and, at the same time, conservative on the substance and on the risks involved. we need to convince the private capital markets to provide us with the necessary means which we are then able to lend out to our final recipients. so the eib pays even more attention than before to the quality of the projects that we finance. the quality of our portfolio and excellent hedging of the risks it is to take are vital to our own and to our investors’ survival. your report mentions on a number of occasions the second of the three pillars of activity – lending, or combining loans with eu budgetary funds. in recent years, the commission and the eib have developed joint risk-sharing instruments to improve access to loan finance. this enables us to be selective in countries where other investors have already left the markets or are heavily reducing their business. let me therefore take the opportunity to thank the european commission for its excellent cooperation on these joint measures. i look forward to further enhancing this cooperation. it allows me also to make a comment on the capacity of structural funds. the eib is ready to step up its lending activities and its lending efforts to co-finance these funds and allow the member states the maximum possible intake of this cash to kick-start their economies, but we would ideally like to see some changes to the current rules to allow for the redeployment of structural and cohesion funds to ensure their best possible utilisation. more flexibility would give us more opportunities. just a final word on the external dimension of our activities. in the present situation it is important that we concentrate on the work within the european union to restart growth, employment and innovation. let us not forget innovation. but we are also the financial arm of the european union outside. we are ready to perform this in this field. we are limited so far to 10% of the business volume, but we know that also for the external dimension of the european union, in the neighbourhood policy and in the accession countries, but also far beyond these territories, we are aware of the support of the european parliament in these activities and i thank you for that as well.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the comprehensive report and the support it provides to the eib’s work thus far. it shares parliament’s recognition of the important role the eib has to play in supporting the europe 2020 objectives. in this context, we particularly welcome the capital increase recently approved by the eib governors, which will generate eur 60 billion of additional lending over the next three years. while the commission recognises the importance of the aaa rating of the bank and the need to properly manage portfolio risks, it is critically important that the eib deploys fresh funds to high-value-added projects across the 27 member states, including vulnerable and programme countries for which funds are not available from other sources, on reasonable terms. for example, eib activity in 2012 has been decisive in providing much-needed support in greece and portugal. the bank provided substantial amounts and support for school facilities throughout greece, as well as for development of environmentally friendly energy production. small- and mid-capitalisation businesses play a key role in the greek and portuguese economies, and eib funding has helped them gain access to credit, despite the difficult market conditions. we also welcome parliament’s support for deepening the cooperation between the eib and the commission in developing innovative financial instruments such as loan-grant blending and risk-sharing mechanisms. these instruments are very efficient tools for combining and leveraging the limited resources from the eu budget, the eib and other european institutions to promote growth and employment in europe. therefore the commission has proposed to considerably expand their use under cosme, horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. moreover, to further improve the impact of the eu intervention, we should continue exploring synergies between eib financing and structural funds. a clear example is the pilot phase of the project bonds initiative. the scheme is up and running and managed by the eib. the eu budget contribution of eur 230 million is expected to raise around eur 4.5 billion in project costs. the project bonds initiative has two objectives: to revive project bond markets, and to help the promoters of individual infrastructure projects to attract long-term private-sector debt financing. the project pipeline is good, with both ten-t and ten-e infrastructure projects, all of which could be allocated in 2013, following the finalisation of the tendering procedures. the positive feedback from market participants provides confidence about this new way of financing infrastructure projects in the eu and, more generally, on the use of innovative instruments in support of the europe 2020 strategy. we consider that a major challenge for the eib in the years to come will be to refine its business model in light of the new market circumstances, notably the deleveraging of the private banking sector, the limited investment budget available to member states, and the growing relevance of public investment banks. in this context, the eib should use its catalytic capacity to attract resources from the capital markets to support eu priority investments. at the same time, it should reinforce and streamline its cooperation with public investment banks in member states. we share the eib’s view that one-size-fits-all is not an option, in particular in the current circumstances. in order to generate growth, the eib has to adapt its lending programme to the needs and necessities of each member state while at the same time, focusing on eu added value. consequently, the eib investment strategies have to be closely aligned with the priorities identified in the annual growth survey and the european semester of economic governance. as regards the eib’s external activity, a substantial level of eib involvement in the pre-accession and neighbourhood countries is essential and in line with the eu’s political and strategic priorities. the eib’s investment activity in these regions is still of fundamental importance to facilitate the accession process and the eu support to its neighbourhood, while other, more distant, regions will also benefit from support from other international financial institutions. as you may be aware, the commission is currently preparing the proposal for the future mandate and the next financial framework, which should be submitted to parliament and the council in the coming months.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i welcome the presence here of mr hoyer, president of the european investment bank, and of commissioner šemeta and the comments made. i would like to congratulate mr mauro on his very good and comprehensive report. the role of the european bank is now becoming particularly important in promoting the union's objectives, particularly those of employment and growth. as the european union takes strong measures to strengthen the discipline and oversight of public debts and budgets, high-quality jobs, increased employment and improved productivity are also required. if we do not act, europe will inevitably face too much competition from our trading partners. the bank's activities are geared to the development of the union's economic and social cohesion and to the strengthening of the union's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe, the mediterranean basin and the mediterranean. we therefore expect the european investment bank to help europe, especially the member states which are suffering the most, such as my country, greece, to get out of the current crisis. the european union is encouraging the european investment bank to develop them as quickly as possible. the question is: will the project bonds be used in countries in fiscal adjustment? i agree with what mr mauro said in his report that financial instruments must be simple - a necessary condition for transparency, control and economic efficiency - recyclable, flexible and catalytic. significant financial benefits can be derived from the bank's action for smes, such as the new european microfinance facility, the progress facility, the agreement to establish a new risk-sharing instrument to support innovative and newly established smes, and the development of a sme loan portfolio to serve the respective enterprises with the aim of extending the scope of the bank's lending to smes to smaller financial intermediaries and thus to smaller enterprises. finally, the restructuring of the criteria for access to finance for social economy enterprises, but also for enterprises developing cultural and educational initiatives, active in tackling pressing social issues, is becoming important. we expect, mr president of the bank, commissioner, that the european investment bank, with the cooperation of both sides, will give the maximum possible benefit to all countries, especially those in a budgetary crisis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, commissioner, president of the european investment bank, the european investment bank is one of the most effective development tools available to the union. a crucial tool when unemployment is at record highs and there are countries like greece and spain where unemployment is approaching 30%. the council recognised this by proceeding with the capital increase of eur 10 billion. but as the report points out, despite the 'magic' of turning 10 billion into 180 billion in investment/lending, this amounts to just 0.5% of the union's gdp on an annual basis. when you consider the enormous lost productive capacity, the lost wealth and the social pain that the extent of unemployment is causing today, it is clear that we need a much larger programme, in my personal opinion, four or five times larger. and i hope and i ask that after the german elections at the latest, the political leaders of europe will find the courage to start it. parliament is making it easier for them with this report. we insist on the effectiveness of the tool. that is why we are asking for the aaaa to be preserved. how many member states have a cohesion fund which manages european resources? we insist on transparency. we therefore ask that all the recipients of eib funds, from the largest to the smallest, be made public. that is why we want geographical dispersion throughout the union, but emphasis on the regions and countries where people cannot find work. we therefore call for emphasis to be placed on small and mediumsized enterprises, which are particularly capable of creating jobs. we also insist on the need to remedy the weaknesses that we know well exist in the euro area. this is why the eib must invest in facilitating the smoothing of the large interest rate differentials between euro area countries, and project bonds must not be directed only to developed markets. finally, we insist on the importance of research and innovation, both for the competitiveness of the union as a whole and for bridging the gap between the countries of the euro area. the european investment bank is a great instrument, mr president, and we are aiming to make it more effective with this report. but any tool is only as effective as the strength and determination of those who use it. the european union must therefore finally find the courage to embark on a major investment programme. it is the key to completing the exit from the crisis, even if it creates a lot more work for the dear president of the european investment bank. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer "blue card". i said four, five times, not ten. but think of the money we gave to round up the banks all over europe . how many trillions, actually we didn't stop at billions, we approached a trillion. what i am saying is that the 10 billion public funds to be increased to 40 or 50 to be used for leverage throughout europe is not something extreme. the money spent on esm programmes is much more. the point is, we have to make a decision. are we gonna invest or patch holes? i think we should invest. and the eib is a good tool for making investments.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the decision to increase the european central bank's capital by eur 10 billion, which i agree should have been higher and which has been delayed - we have been waiting for it for a year - creates a multiplier effect on the bank's lending capacity and raises expectations. the question is how to channel this money effectively so that we can tackle the problems of economic growth and employment. the first point is that many times in the recent past the european central bank has been reluctant to disburse loans, as we have seen many times in my country, greece. mr hoyer has given some explanations. i'm not entirely convinced. secondly, the problem of transparency and accountability, as you said, to the european parliament. i have before me an answer to a question i put to you in connection with the road projects financed by the eib in greece. you told me that these projects are old-fashioned and the relationships between the bank, the contractors and the greek government are a nightmare. and yet, mr president, you continue to support these projects, the old-fashioned ones, and this whole affair, in my view, is leading the framework to failure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. will they be criteria related to the real economy or will they be different criteria? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i understand the need for the european central bank to be a reliable bank. i do not understand the obsession and the self-interest in securing the aaa rating, as required by the rating agencies, which, as you know very well, is often a trap and a block to proceed with the execution of loans that serve the needs of the real economy.
mr president, commissioner, president of the european investment bank, at a time when europe is really thirsting for growth, the debate on the role of the european investment bank is not only timely but also urgent, especially today on the opening day of the european council, a european council which will speak once again about the need for development, but at the same time decide on drastic cuts in the union budget, undermining in practice the financing of development. the report by mr mauro points out the obvious fact, in my view, that the european investment bank is an integral part of the strategy for overcoming the crisis, as it can make a decisive contribution to the efforts to return the economy to growth. the decision to increase the capital of the european investment bank by eur 10 billion, in the context of the development pact, was underlined by many colleagues. it is certainly a step in the right direction, but not enough in my view. it is necessary to ensure that the eib has the appropriate tools and sufficient capital at its disposal in order to be able to respond effectively to the specific circumstances created by the crisis and which differ from country to country. there are countries in long-term recession and countries where unemployment - you underlined this in your introductory speech, mr hoyer - has reached unacceptably high levels. in these same countries the investment environment has deteriorated so dramatically that even investment in economically viable projects is facing difficulties, sometimes insurmountable, not to mention the difficulties of small and mediumsized enterprises which are really dramatic. it is indicative of the number of greek colleagues who took the floor in this debate and pointed out the difficulties that exist, particularly with regard to the financing of small and mediumsized enterprises. let me mention a few more problems: the continuing lack of liquidity in the banking sector, which makes it extremely difficult to finance small and mediumsized enterprises, but also the fact that the cost of borrowing, if there were a way to overcome the lack of liquidity, in countries experiencing economic difficulties, is really too high and obviously worsens the return on investment. we have the uncertainty about the prospects of the economy which remains very high, the fact that overdue debts to manufacturers lead to the suspension of major projects. the european investment bank has been able to provide a very useful service to the community in the field of research and development, and it has been able to provide a very useful service to the community in the field of research and development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore ask you, mr hoyer, to assure us that we can ensure that the instruments, priorities and funds at the disposal of the european investment bank today are able to enable it to fulfil the role required to promote growth and competitiveness.
mr president, it is widely accepted that the eib plays a catalytic role in achieving the european union's objectives of growth and employment. it is also clear to all of us that the bank must analyse the risks involved in investing in projects. but they don't have to be countries that have a credit rating of aaa. there are specific projects in the countries of the south, which are affected by the economic crisis, which are indeed viable and profitable. mr president, the issue of project bonds is very important to the recovery of the south. the report under consideration here again refers to the pilot application of project bonds. we must all understand that project bonds are very, very important. they will be instrumental in the development effort of members now trying to recover from the economic crisis. i would like to return to the question raised by mr turmes: we voted for connecting europe. is this whole package supposed to be funded by project bonds?
in writing. the european union is experiencing perhaps the world's greatest demographic crisis alongside the economic crisis. the number of people aged 65 and over is expected to almost double from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million in 2060. in parallel, the eu population is expected to fall from 495 million to 416 million by 2060, while the elderly dependency ratio will increase from 25% to 62%, with implications for social security funds and welfare budgets. the report, which i voted in favour of, seeks to create the conditions necessary to ensure that the individual is able to mature and age in an active and healthy way. this means that member states should prepare for the new conditions today, for example by creating living conditions in the city or in the countryside that are suitable for the health and well-being of the ageing population, by creating age-friendly communities, services and products and, obviously, by changing the patterns of urbanisation in europe. it is encouraging that this debate at european level is starting relatively early; however, action should be taken quickly as the conversion of entire spatial data takes time, especially in the midst of an economic downturn.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of guidelines for the administrative budgets of the eu institutions at a time when the protracted crisis continues to cast a shadow on this debate. in the past years we have made considerable savings in the administrative expenditure of the european parliament and the other institutions. we are continuing with the same determination this year, with particular emphasis on strengthening cooperation between the institutions and sharing best practices that can reduce operating costs without having to sacrifice the quality of the services provided. as regards the budget of parliament, i would argue that the structural and organisational reforms which have led to considerable savings should be continued without jeopardising parliament's legislative activity. finally, we must not forget the peculiarities of 2014, as it is the year in which the european elections will take place. the main message we should send is that the european parliament is making the greatest contribution to fiscal rationalisation efforts at european level, trying to maintain a high level of legislative work and fulfilling its role as the only directly elected body of the eu, which defends and promotes the interests of eu citizens.
in writing. vat fraud is one of the most frequent economic crimes in the eu as a whole. for almost half a year now, the eu has been trying to coordinate member states' efforts even more quickly by establishing a rapid reaction mechanism (rrm) which will enable member states to react more quickly and effectively to vat fraud. the report, which i voted in favour of, provides that this mechanism allows member states to take emergency measures in cases of mass fraud and that they can, for example, apply for a period of one month a 'reverse charge mechanism' under which the recipient becomes liable for payment of vat instead of the supplier of goods or the provider of services. this would significantly improve the chances of effectively tackling complex fraud schemes, limiting financial losses for the public. greece can therefore also benefit from this mechanism, at a time when the fight against all forms of financial fraud is a prerequisite for improving the economic climate in greece and restoring positive growth rates.
in writing. although the removal of distortions in the functioning of the single market is a long-term endeavour in the eu, the economic crisis requires intensified action in this direction. in this context, the commission adopted a communication on single market governance entitled 'improving single market governance' to implement and enforce single market rules more quickly and effectively. the european parliament, in this report, which i voted in favour of, welcomes this initiative; the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council. the european parliament therefore sees the period immediately ahead as crucial and the commission should strengthen the single market legislative framework by giving preference to regulations over directives as legislative tools, as they prove to be more effective in this field.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution, which is largely the result of confusion arising from the different legal systems in the member states and from the sometimes inadequate knowledge of european law on the part of national judges, who are, and should be, european judges who are co-shaping the eu legal framework. this resolution emphasises the importance of financial instruments to improve the training of judges and their access to the law, and the functioning of a network of interconnected judicial coordinators to facilitate judges to consult in their daily work with their counterparts in other member states on issues such as the interpretation of applicable european law (through a secure digital environment). for these reasons, the european parliament calls on the commission to promote and finance the national judicial coordinators of european law and the emerging interconnection of national networks of judicial coordinators.
i think it is very important, mr president, that we are discussing today, on the occasion of international women's day, the reports by our colleagues on issues which are crucial for the lives of women, for the cohesion of our society, for the future of europe. it is particularly important that this debate should take place in the presence and participation of vice-president reding. the issues of equality, namely the implementation of legislation, the elimination of discrimination and stereotypes against women, the strengthening of their participation in the labour market, in economic and political decision-making are constantly on our agenda. this year, however, this debate is particularly important because it is taking place in the context of an economic and social crisis affecting women in the european union and it is also taking place in the context of a great upheaval in our region, in the struggle of the neighbouring mediterranean peoples to win democracy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected. it is therefore very important, on the occasion of today's anniversary, to take a frank look at the history of women in the european union, to see the achievements and the weaknesses of our society and our politics, and to be inspired by the message of the world day, to move forward with greater determination and respect for the values of equality, justice and solidarity which are the basis of our construction.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, first of all i would like to thank everyone who contributed to this report, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat and the political advisers. the key pillars of a european energy policy are security of supply, diversification of energy suppliers and sources, competitive prices and energy efficiency. these policies are complemented by the overall objective of reducing carbon emissions. in my presentation i would like to go beyond what is included in the road map. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. so let's talk about energy: i would like to make some proposals for our energy policy which require realism, moderation, transcendence, awareness of reality and a spirit of compromise. we must achieve the right balance between energy and environment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the energy performance of buildings is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we europeans have lost our fighting creativity by abolishing forms of energy instead of improving them and making them environmentally friendly. europe was built by brave men and women who faced everything as a challenge and not as a threat. when you aim for a better future, you don't abolish; you make the best of what you have. in central and southern europe, more than 50% of the household budget goes to energy costs. where is this going? in bulgaria, they took to the streets and the government fell because of the cost of energy. i do not want to be a cassandra, but i foresee a chain of social reactions due to energy poverty, and it was good that the socialists included the social dimension of energy for the first time in this report we are discussing. the commission has already taken a very bold stance on the exploitation of shale gas. you owe it to the people of europe. i know that you are fully aware of the importance of the deposits in the south-east of the mediterranean. support the european character of these deposits by setting up a south-east european mediterranean energy committee with greece, cyprus, italy and the european union as permanent members. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not affected by the crisis, and it is therefore not possible to take any further action. you can define greece as a regional hub, which will collect and resell natural gas and where the natural gas prices for the region will be negotiated and set. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe must finally trust its indigenous energy sources, whether fossil fuels, wind from the north or sun from the south. if we do not recognise the role of renewable energy, we will not be objective. they have a big part to play. but we cannot ask for binding targets when there is no central european energy management. the transition to renewable energy sources cannot be achieved overnight. it is a matter of a common european response.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to ask you to give me a reply to a few of your remarks. firstly, energy efficiency: you can come to us with open doors. i think it was right that we have a 20% energy efficiency target in europe. it's just a matter of timing. when is the right time to propose a new target? i'm open to that, but i'm inclined to say this: we are currently monitoring the implementation of the adopted directive by the member states. we look forward to seeing the progress made on energy savings in 2012/2013. we will then, before the end of our commission mandate, make a forecast of whether the speed of implementation in the member states and our measures, which we have decided to make binding, will be sufficient to achieve the 20% target for 2020, or whether further measures will have to be discussed and decided upon with the new parliament in 2015. i think that the time has come for a new energy efficiency target, based on analyses of developments at european level, the effectiveness of your directive, our joint directive, the national action plans. that is, i would be more inclined - also in terms of when we will succeed in the council - to see 2015 as the right time to propose a binding, pragmatic and ambitious 2030 energy efficiency target. secondly, shale gas: we all agree that gas will play an increasingly important role in the global energy mix and also in the european energy mix. there are three reasons for this: gas is available in far greater quantities than oil. secondly, gas is much more environmentally friendly than coal, for example, both for industrial processing and for the heat market and the production of electricity. and the third reason is that gas is very flexible and therefore the ideal partner for renewable energy. this means that without wind, without sun, gas is available faster for heat and electricity production. we have a european gas market of about 540 billion cubic metres of annual consumption at present. our forecasts assume that it will tend to increase to 600 billion m3 of consumption per year. we still produce a third of our gas in-house, mainly from the netherlands and the uk. but all the projections for conventional gas production in europe say that these reserves will run out by 2030/2035. the question is: do we want to import 100% of our gas? russia, norway, algeria, nigeria, qatar, the southern corridor? so we want to be 100% dependent on imports? knowing that there are also significant environmental risks in siberia, in the arctic, in nigeria, in algeria? knowing full well that the working conditions for workers in siberia are not necessarily very friendly? the main thing is that the gas arrives clean in lubmin near greifswald, then we are not concerned about the environmental hazards in siberia and the arctic and the working conditions. i tend to look at it in its entirety. the environment is indivisible. i would therefore like to know what has gone right and what has gone wrong in america in the field of shale gas, and where member states want to do this, demonstration projects to apply the highest safety technology, but not to say in advance, is out of the question. i believe that it should be european engineers and geologists who should study the issues of drinking water protection, groundwater protection, nature protection and the exploitation of shale gas potential. this should be our common european ambition. poland will be ahead, the baltic states will be ahead, britain will certainly be ahead. and i would like to accompany this at european level with a european philosophy of safety and the environment. and if only 10 or 15% of the gas europe needs is supplied by shale gas, then with some domestic production we have the best answer to the russian partners' desire to have long-term contracts, to their desire to keep the price of gas linked to the price of oil. this means that certain quantities of shale gas lead to relaxation exercises by the russian contractors. i can tell you from many talks with moscow that the greatest uncertainty is the russians when it comes to shale gas - the shale gas revolution worldwide, but also potentials in europe. it is possible that in a few years ukraine will not only be a transit country for russian gas, but also a shale gas producer exporting shale gas to europe. i therefore advise openness on this subject and avoid hasty, particularly negative, conclusions. i'm not blue-eyed and euphoric. i would advise us to be open to political science, which can only be answered by demonstration projects. the subject of energy prices requires a longer discussion. on the one hand, high energy prices are good because they are the most effective economic factor for energy saving. the consumer is sensitive to high prices. this is something you hear every day as a driver, and with smart metering, increasingly in the electricity and heat markets. conversely, the peak of reasonable energy prices may have been reached. energy poverty is no longer a foreign word. there is a growing number of european citizens who can no longer afford mobility, heating, cooling, lighting, communications, their oil and electricity bills. the national social security systems must be adjusted. energy has to play a bigger role in the shopping basket than food and housing and so on. i don't think regulated prices are a good idea. we should accept real prices, market prices. that's why i'm fighting to make sure that not only the wholesale market works, but the retail market works, too. in 20 of our member states, consumers still have a regulated electricity price which does not reflect supply and demand and does not reflect the true cost. in spain we currently have the problem that regulated electricity prices have created a deficit of 29 billion euros, which now leads to some not necessarily sustainable changes in the promotion of renewable energies. we want to make it clear that we want to continue to promote renewable energy! we want to bring them to the market, we want to make subsidies degressive and we have not put any pressure on the promotion of renewable energies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the european research area, the european research area, the european research area, the european research area, the european area, the european area area area, the area of the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, the future, i was in iceland on thursday. i see great potential for geothermal energy and i believe that we need to increase our research here! (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, commissioner, i liked your position on the european policy of stopping mining but not paying attention to how it is done in the countries from which we import. in america this policy of the europeans is called "not in my back yard", and i really liked the way you put it. the report is a good example of the need to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so we have produced a very long text. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report recommends that this subject be introduced into national education programmes so that energy saving starts at the root. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this will give european citizens, investors and businesses a roadmap for the future.
two points: firstly, we must ensure that the neighbouring countries follow the european rules on stress tests and, secondly, a serious aspect of the issue we are discussing is the operation of production schools for specialised staff in countries which operate nuclear power stations. in fukushima they had a huge problem with skilled personnel when the accident happened and they didn't accept, if you remember, skilled personnel from other countries. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's nuclear safety is not compromised by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. there is a shortage of skilled personnel in the nuclear sector.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, commissioner, we are discussing two specific reports, the lulucf report and the mrv report, but in any case the subject we are discussing here is climate change. every year we meet at the climate negotiations; progress is made each year; but every year, year after year, that progress continues to be unsatisfactory, not enough to give us a significant chance of achieving the global climate agreement by 2015. what are we doing wrong ? what is it that needs to change? in these two reports parliament's position is clear: we must change our pace and our determination, our seriousness and our european legislation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. that's what we did with lulucf. the commission's proposal to incorporate the durban decision on the accounting of emissions from land use and land use change came just after durban. instead of just sticking to the minimum that was agreed in durban, on climate negotiations, the obligation and recording of emissions from forests, reforestation, rescue, forest management and so on, we went further: we have also made it compulsory for the european union and the member states to record emissions from agricultural activities. and not just that. in the legislation we have the obligation of the european union to take the lead in the climate negotiations, in order to make it mandatory at international level to record emissions from wetlands. i think that in this way, if we continue in this direction, if we really get serious about our policies, if we make our policies more responsible, we can get to 2015 on a global climate agreement that we so badly need. but these advances are not achieved automatically. i would like to thank, in addition to all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs on this report, who supported the introduction of compulsory annual agricultural emissions, as will be the case from now on. i would like to thank my colleague, who dealt with this matter, mr elia preveza, mrs ulrike schöner from the socialist secretariat, the socialist adviser on these matters, mrs isobel findlay from the secretariat of the committee on the environment, the cypriot presidency and the european commission. we have all managed together, through the use of rapid procedures, to conclude this negotiation at first reading and to start recording agricultural emissions by the member states as early as 2013. we have to get the global climate agreement by 2015, and we will get it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but they also highlight very serious political issues, as they push for greater transparency and efficiency in our climate policy. we need more transparency and more efficiency in climate policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the biggest of these was the cdm scandal, which the commissioner herself fought to end, but parliament also fought to end it, and i helped, i can tell you, myself. and this joint response has led to savings of hundreds of millions or even billions of euros for the european electricity consumer, after previously paying corresponding amounts to factories outside europe and to intermediaries who profited by exploiting the complexity and opacity of the system, selling us rights up to 70 times more than they cost. we need to increase efficiency so that we do not repeat the phenomenon of photovoltaic panels, which we bought at great expense to create a strong european initiative, and we saw china finally take over our market by directly subsidising its own producers, to extract the subsidies we have been giving all these years. i hope that these mistakes will be avoided in the lulucf framework, where i believe satisfactory accounting standards are ensured from the outset. but we will see it in action and we will always be vigilant in defending transparency and effectiveness in our climate policy, because the issue is too big and too critical to be left to mere words and good intentions.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will keep it short as it has also been so positive to hear how broad a backing these two proposals have. there was one comment about our need to improve knowledge. i, of course, agree with this one hundred per cent, and that it is why it makes so much sense that we are now starting to account for lulucf. this is very important because when you account for it then you also need to – and you know that the next step will be that you have to – reduce the impact from lulucf and that is why this is a total thing. this is a first step and it is very important because the next step, of course, is that people will want to know more. so these things are interlinked and i think that what we just heard here speaks very much in favour of supporting what we actually have in front of us. my other concluding remark is just to say how sometimes, when we sit at these international conferences, you wonder what comes out of them. this is a very tangible and specific example. some of us worked on this back in durban fifteen months ago; then it came into the text of an international agreement, and now we in the eu are ready to make it eu law. it is being implemented. from here it can make a difference in real life and not only that – because we have an international agreement around these matters, others will have to implement it as well. this is just one example of why some of these really slow negotiations sometimes lead to things which actually make a difference in real life. i think this is a very important first step that we are taking on lulucf. once again, thank you to everyone who has been working on this, and i hope that the voice from parliament tomorrow will be as strong as the one we have heard here tonight.
rapporteur. − mr president, just some facts for colleagues, so that they know exactly what we are voting on tomorrow. lulucf activities produce savings for the eu member states. if we move to step two, which is to measure the lulucf emissions against our targets, it will have a financially positive impact on member states, so it is in our interest that we all measure in the same way, and this is what we are doing with this legislation. there is no burden on farmers. this has been clear in the text. this is a macro-statistical exercise. as the commission has said, after 2020 we will have monetary accounting for agricultural activities. so what happens between 2013 and 2020? we have both preparation and monetary accounting. for every year from 2013 until 2020, the member states will have to announce their estimates for their agricultural emissions. at the end of this period, they will have to announce the final estimates for each year of this period from 2013 to 2020, so by the end of 2020 we will know the complete accounting picture for the whole period from 2013 to 2020. this is a serious step ahead from what we decided all together in durban. we should all be proud that with both these reports the eu has shown the world its commitment to climate action.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 12 march, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches.
mr president, we all knew that 2013 would be the worst year for greece in terms of both the recession and the unemployment indicators. but the reality has exceeded all expectations. homeless citizens are increasing at a rate that is unmanageable. youth unemployment is about 60%, which is unmanageable. the greek people are fighting and hoping. the much-desired expansion package remains a blank slate, while it is being moved from autumn to spring and now they say after the summer. greece is being tested hard and despite the declarations of growth, the policies being followed do not lead to any way out. in this context of the escalating crisis, the european commission has chosen to issue a directive, which is addressed to its staff who are going to travel to greece. the directive draws the attention of employees to their safety, since it portrays greece as a dangerous country in which there will be serious social unrest. it is not possible for the country to be fighting to regain its prestige and its fiscal credibility and for the commission to talk about a lack of security. i would ask that solidarity be shown in action and that we all rise to the occasion. the hard-pressed people deserve positive messages from europe.
mr president, i wonder what a trip to berlin would be like without a visit to the brandenburg gate, what an evening at the royal court theatre in london would be like without a performance of a great piece of classical repertoire. would europe be better off if we were to save money and not support institutions like the cultural capital or the sakharov prize? all of the above are symbols, and at the same symbolic level, greco-roman wrestling is the core and essence of the olympic games, but also the living history of the creation of europe: the struggle of two cultures, the greek and the roman, which gave birth to europe. the olympic games, olympism, the olympic truce and even the ritual of the flame are longstanding cultural traditions, and so is wrestling, greek and by extension european. i therefore cannot agree with the decision of the international olympic committee to remove the sport of wrestling from the olympic games for economic reasons, for marketing reasons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european parliament is the most appropriate place to express its opposition to this decision and i am sure that it will do so. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat the problem of the use of pesticides in the food industry. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the one-minute interventions are over.
the next item is the report by mr patrice tirolien, on behalf of the committee on development, on the financing of eu cooperation for the african, caribbean and pacific states and the overseas countries and territories for the period 2014-2020 (com (2011) 0837 - 2012/2222 (ini)) (a7-0049/2013)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, first of all let me, on behalf of commissioner piebalgs, congratulate mr tirolien for his report on the preparation of the 11th european development fund. this report encompasses a broad range of areas regarding our cooperation with acp countries and gives interesting food for thought. the european council on 8 february confirmed the commission proposal to keep the 11th edf outside the eu budget. instead, the 2014-2020 period will be used to redefine the principles and architecture of the eu-acp partnership, ahead of potential post-cotonou budgetisation. in the meantime, member states’ contributions under the 11th edf will be further aligned with those used for the eu budget. in the long term, we in the commission believe that edf budgetisation would bring more political accountability to eu cooperation with acp countries, more efficiency to eu financial instruments and procedures, and more coherence to eu development cooperation as a whole. we also agree with the rapporteur that budgetisation should on no account be used to reduce expenditure on development aid. the european council also set the amount of the 11th edf at eur 30.5 billion, which remains stable compared to the 10th edf amount, extrapolated over seven years. the share between the broad financial envelopes of the 11th edf for acps, octs and support expenditure will still have to be decided by the member states. we also take note, with interest, of your request to maintain the same proportion for intra-acp and regional programmes as in the 10th edf, to keep flexibility and responsiveness with unallocated reserves and to maintain the figure proposed by the commission for the envelope dedicated to octs, and we are grateful for your backing for the commission proposal to use 5% of edf funding for support expenditure. this is fully justified in the light of the increasing complexity and number of implementing tasks attributed to the commission. regarding differentiation, we share the views expressed in the report that this is a vital tool for targeting eu resources where they are needed most to address poverty reduction. a differentiated approach depending on contexts and needs is also a fundamental principle of the cotonou agreement. therefore, we will further focus on the most vulnerable and the poorest countries, which may lead to a reduced allocation compared to the 10th edf for the most advanced countries. rest assured that all acp countries will continue to benefit from the edf, if they so wish, with national, regional and intra-acp funds. the ongoing programming exercise for the 11th edf will be steered by the agenda for change, but it also falls under the cotonou agreement. as such, it remains a joint undertaking based on a partnership with each acp government. regarding concerns expressed in the report on sectoral concentration, let us remember that the choice of programming will stem from dialogue in which we will seek to match partner countries’ wishes with our drive to get the highest impact from our cooperation. this is indeed why we cannot earmark funds for specific sectors. for the first time in the edf – as with the dci – we propose basing our programming directly on the partner country’s national development strategy and synchronising our programming cycles. this takes us a giant step closer towards genuine alignment and ownership. so, mr president, what next for the 11th edf? well, after an agreement has been reached between member states on the 11th edf internal agreement mid-2013, the text will have to be ratified by all of them. this delay until the entry into force of the 11th edf should not impede the programming process, as long as transitional measures are taken to ensure the availability of funds in the meantime. the commission will continue to apply the highest possible level of transparency towards the european parliament regarding the preparation of the 11th edf, with due respect for the inter-institutional process.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 12 march, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr patrice tirolien, on behalf of the committee on development, on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union (com (2012) 0362 - c7-0285/2012 - 2012/0195 (cns)) (a7-0052/2013)
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr tirolien once again for this report and for welcoming the commission’s proposal. in preparing this, the commission has listened to the comments and suggestions from all sides and the final text demonstrates the commission’s unwavering commitment to assisting octs in their efforts to achieve sustainable economic and social development. the overseas association decision proposal takes into account not only the multitude of challenges with which the overseas territories and countries are confronted, but also their particular advantages and future opportunities. in that respect i would like to stress one substantial change that can be pointed out in comparison with the 2001 overseas association decision and which concerns the inclusion of a fully-fledged chapter on environment, climate change and disaster risk reduction. i will now go through some relevant points in mr tirolien’s report. with regard to the issue of competitiveness, i would like to emphasise that enhancing competitiveness is one of the main objectives of the relations between the eu and the octs and, as such, all activities undertaken in the context of the association decision shall contribute to this end. rather than limiting competitiveness to specific parts of the decision, we consider that to be a cross-cutting issue. the commission’s proposal contains provisions to allow for the eligibility of octs in all union programmes and instruments under certain conditions. we reaffirm our commitment to facilitate the active participation of octs in horizontal programmes. however the overseas association decision proposal cannot foreground the provisions of instrument-specific regulations as this would constitute a breach of the legal order. the commission shares the concern expressed by parliament regarding the need for simple and effective rules and procedures concerning programming and the implementation of financial assistance. these will be designed following consultation with the octs and the four member states concerned, in the commission regulation complementing the overseas association decision regarding financial assistance provided under the 11th european development fund and the programming guidelines. regarding trade and the rules of origin, the overseas association decision proposal constitutes a significant step towards improving the conditions for octs. while based on the general system of preferences model, the rules of origin proposed go further, by simplifying origin certification for small consignments, adapting cumulation of origin with other eu trade partners and – last but not least – by allowing octs to derogate. moreover, in terms of substance, the new rules simplify the product-specific rules, including for fisheries products. in terms of procedures, the new rules introduce, from 2017, origin certification by registered exporters, also known as self-certification. on regional cooperation, the commission concurs with the views expressed in the resolution. that is why this question is already accommodated in the text of the proposal. of course, regional cooperation can take different forms, exchange of information and best practices being one of them and support for regional or international projects, programmes and organisations another. to this end, the proposed overseas association decision includes a provision for the definition of rules and conditions to ensure better articulation between financial instruments and partners within the same geographic region. the european union wishes to support octs that seek to develop closer relations with their neighbours and to address joint challenges. in the past octs and the eu have cooperated on issues related to employment, education, health and social policy. the programmes implemented in greenland and new caledonia are cases in point. given the importance and success of this cooperation, these themes have been maintained in the legislative proposal. health issues, notably the spread of communicable diseases, are also of concern to octs, hence the inclusion of provisions relative to these issues in a general chapter covering social issues and which also includes employment and social policy. finally, concerning the upgraded role for parliament in the association envisaged in the report, i would like to reiterate that members of the european parliament will be closely associated with the annual oct-eu forum to improve communications and exchanges.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 12 march, at 11.30 a.m.
i hereby declare the 2012-2013 session of the european parliament closed. (the sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m.)
madam president, today is a great day for europe, today is a great day for the single market. i believe that the two reports by mr louis grech and mrs róża gräfin von thun go beyond europe. they create conditions of confidence for the consumer whether he buys and consumes within the country where he resides or chooses to buy products from other member states of the european union. the important contribution of these two reports is that the consumer can, without fear of losing money if a product is defective, proceed to the market. it's a mechanism that ensures low-cost dispute resolution within reasonable limits. and it's more of a mechanism that one can turn to if one wants to. if this device produces results within 90 days, all is well. but if that mechanism fails, there is always the question of going to court. we'd hate to, but if necessary, the next step is collective precautions. let's keep that in mind.
mr president, a great deal has already been said, and i agree that racism and xenophobia are usually cohabiting with fear and insecurity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. we had the opportunity to discuss these issues at the libe mission a few weeks ago in vienna, at the human rights organization, and i agree that the recordings they make and the work they do are very useful data for all of us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the crisis. parties from several countries, sweden, austria, italy, france, greece and others, which are entrenched in xenophobic policies, are finding a foothold in the crisis. they exploit the lack of european efficiency in tackling critical issues such as unemployment, illegal immigration. they use shortcomings in solidarity policies to deconstruct the importance of a united europe, to undermine democratic values and principles on which our societies are based. and what is even more worrying is that perhaps, in about 14 months from now, in these very seats, probably in a corresponding debate, there will be a presence in this institution, in the european parliament, of political formations that promote these xenophobic agendas. the time is short and the responsibility for all of us is enormous. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank commissioner reding for her excellent work. but let me focus on the situation in my country, greece, where the rise and activity of golden dawn, an openly nazi organization, is unfortunately well known. i would like to stress just one point: let us not be under any illusions, we are all responsible for these developments, in greece and in other countries. i would also like to ask the governments of the member states of the union to reconsider their policies towards countries in crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when you think only of macroeconomic figures and forget that behind the numbers are human lives and fortunes, these are the consequences; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore up to us, to all of us, and it is our historic responsibility to reverse these developments with the right decisions and policies.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i have been very moved by many of the contributions to the debate. i have been shocked by some, but i prefer to forget them and to concentrate on the moving and correct analyses which have been put forward by the members of this parliament – and i can tell you that i am as concerned as you are about the rise of racism, xenophobia and hate crimes based on race, colour, religion, descent, ethnic origin or membership of lgbt groups. any of this intolerance is unacceptable: we cannot differentiate or rank some types of intolerance over others. they are all to be eliminated. we do have a european law, the framework decision on racism and xenophobia, which dates from 2008 – pre-lisbon times as you know – and which obliges member states to penalise intentional public incitement to violence against groups defined by their race, and we need to ensure that it is properly enforced. for that reason, we are reviewing it after five years, as is our normal practice, and at the end of this year i will come forward with a report on what has happened in the various member states on the basis of that legislation. only after 1 december 2014, when the pre-lisbon texts are ‘lisbonised’, can we institute infringement proceedings, so it is currently too soon to assess whether the instrument in question should be revised, because we first need to see how it is being applied. after 1 december 2014, if we see that there are holes in this text, we can propose a revision of it, which will, of course, depend on the legal analysis of whether we have the power to correlate criminal legislation against hate crime. we are aware of the european union agency for fundamental rights study on lgbt people: there were 90 000 respondents so it will be a comprehensive and solid study, and i imagine we will discuss it in this house in order to assess the extent of the problem generally and in the various member states. that brings me to the question of statistics, because before you can develop a policy you must know not only how a law has been applied, but also the number of people in danger, and the number of crimes being committed. the systematic collection of crime data is not as well developed as it should be. a recent report by the fundamental rights agency shows that only four member states collect comprehensive crime data, whereas 14 member states collect limited or no data. so you can see that we have a basic problem here because before you develop new legislation you need to have a basis for it. that is why, in the new laws which i have put on the table since 2009, data collection is explicitly provided for in the legislative text. let me give you the example of the victims’ rights directive: it places a strong emphasis on the systematic collection of statistical data because only that will allow us to see, after some time, whether the directive has been applied properly or whether we need to change certain elements of it. so all the new legislation which i have put on the table since lisbon has had the collection of data written in as a must; and we will have to resolve the ‘pre-lisbon’ questions when the statutory time comes to do so.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, firstly i would like to say that this has been a fascinating debate, with a broad range of views and perspectives from across the chamber. i would like to thank parliament for putting this very important item on today’s agenda. it is absolutely vital that we take every opportunity to continue to raise awareness of the scourge of racism and xenophobia. as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, we celebrate next week the europe-wide action against racism. we declare our solidarity with all minorities and our determination to protect their rights. that is extremely important. minimum standards enshrined in eu law are a way of fighting racism, anti-semitism and homophobia. once such laws are in place, we must ensure that they are respected, both in spirit as well as in practice. a number of members raised the issue of the anti-discrimination directive. i know that this is a very complex and challenging file for us in council. as you will be well aware, unanimity is required and negotiations have been ongoing since as far back as 2008. i can simply reiterate the irish presidency’s commitment to making progress on these negotiations. they are not easy, that is for sure. at the moment i am not in a position to anticipate the timing of an outcome, but we are very much committed and working very hard to make progress on that very important directive. it is important to say that, while the legal framework is extremely important, we must also have the courage to raise awareness and to guard against the attitudes that make discrimination possible. this is very much about getting into the minds and the hearts of citizens and changing attitudes and improving culture. a number of members have alluded to that. i think it is very tempting, at times such as these – times of great economic hardship – for some individuals and groups to look for scapegoats. therefore, at this difficult time, we have to be especially vigilant to defend our values and speak out against prejudice, against bigotry and against hatred. all crimes motivated by racism and xenophobia – all forms of discrimination – affect not just the victim, but all of society. that is something we have to continually remind ourselves. europe’s reputation, of course, depends on securing and defending the very basic values which our societies are based upon. i would just like to pick up on the point made by the vice-president of the commission, commissioner reding: that it is extremely important that the atrocities and hate crimes of the past are not forgotten; that we do not allow them to be forgotten; and that we do not lose those valuable lessons we have learned from those experiences in our quite recent history. i very much support the commissioner’s approach to trying to ensure that we remember and honour victims and that we continually try to remind people, particularly the younger generation, of those atrocities that have gone before them. a number of members, including mr kelly, also mentioned the value of reaching out to ngos, to civil societies and particularly to sporting organisations. i think that is a very valuable lesson that we have to learn; where the very important role models for young people show leadership and show conviction when defending our basic values and the things that we hold dear. a number of members, including mr claeys and mr vanhecke, made the argument that the subject of racism is often misused to constrain legitimate discussion. that certainly cannot be allowed to happen. but this is to confuse the subject. facts are not hidden. however, labelling, discriminating against, or indeed inciting hatred against people on grounds of race, colour, religious creed, sexual orientation, or other proscribed grounds, is not acceptable. that is the message that has to go very clearly from this chamber and from all of the european institutions as we work to promote and defend our basic values. i would like to conclude by thanking members for the very warm and positive reaction to the irish presidency’s initiative at the justice and home affairs council. you can rest assured that we will take that work forward over the months ahead. thank you very much once again for this very stimulating debate.
i have received five motions for resolutions with a view to closing this debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i 'm not . the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 13 march, at 12 noon. (the vote was then postponed to thursday, 14 march 2013) written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. the debate on sustainable, secure and affordable energy has only recently been formally reflected at european level, in particular in the treaty of lisbon. however, despite the ambitious energy policy formulated by the commission, the eu's internal energy market is proving fragmented and performing rather poorly. barriers to cross-border trade and the development of energy infrastructure and a lack of an institutional framework are perhaps the most important barriers to the energy market. for greece, however, its successful and unhindered implementation is of particular importance, especially at the present time when the country is negotiating both the operation of the natural gas networks and following the evidence of the presence of energy deposits in the greek undersea area. this report on the regulation, which i voted in favour of, facilitates and speeds up the hitherto extremely long procedures for the authorization of energy infrastructure in the member states (on average 12 years), which discourage investors, but also lays the foundations for the mobilization of significant investment funds in the energy sector and consequently the creation of jobs, provisions from which greece can benefit considerably.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on transeuropean energy infrastructure, as i believe that the proposals it contains enhance the security and quality of energy supply, and that the considerable interdependence between member states makes a european approach to the problem necessary.
in writing. i voted against the report by ms auken, as i believe that the commission should review its approach to the infringement report concerning vienna airport and address the shortcomings identified by the ombudsman.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because accounting for land use, land-use change and forestry (lulucf) is a key element in climate policy with the potential, among other things, to contribute to mitigation, adaptation, conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of natural resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr eickhout's report because i believe it makes a positive contribution to environmental protection through proposals to improve the measurement and identification of anthropogenic emissions contributing to the greenhouse effect which are not controlled by the montreal protocol.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the commission's draft proposal for a european platform for electronic dispute resolution. the increasing volume of sales made electronically today and the further increase expected in the coming years make it necessary to establish a framework for the out-of-court settlement of certain disputes arising from the cross-border sale of goods or the provision of services electronically. the platform, which the eu intends to launch, will be open and its services free of charge and available in all official eu languages. the commission will also be preparing a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is informed of the information it receives from the consumer.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the proposals it contains contribute to a more effective resolution of consumer disputes. the extension of the scope to both cross-border and domestic transactions and the proposal to ensure that consumers are provided with substantial assistance through the electronic platform are considered particularly positive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the draft report takes a three-pronged approach. firstly, the currently patchy coverage of alternative dispute resolution (adr) is remedied by providing a robust framework for the development of consumer adr entities which will ensure full coverage. secondly, the fact that many consumers and traders are presently unaware of adr procedures is addressed by requiring traders to provide adequate information on adr on their websites and in their documents. finally, the harmonisation of quality criteria will mean that, wherever consumers buy from across the union, they will have access to a high quality, impartial, independent, fair and transparent adr procedure.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it contributes to the development and protection of the overseas countries and territories (oct), which are considered to be of strategic importance for the european union. the octs offer many natural advantages and opportunities for action in relation to the new challenges facing europe, such as globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges, climate change, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as safe drinking water for european citizens is a core concern of policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection. the rapporteur recommends changing the legal basis to the appropriate provisions relating to the protection of the environment, that is article 192(1) of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. i voted against the two new regulations (two-pack) because they tighten even further the right of member states to draw up and implement their budgets according to their own needs. the two new regulations complemented each other to tighten the neoliberal package of economic governance, which in turn tightened the failed stability pact, and to ensure that european states and citizens were locked into the one-way street of continued austerity. the strengthening of supervision of member states receiving financial assistance, preventive supervision, balanced budgets and zero deficits will provide a further lever for the implementation of tougher neoliberal policies. the budgetary and investment programmes are fully aligned with the doctrine of austerity and exclude any alternative policy with a growth and redistribution role that would promote full employment. the wrong response to the crisis and the wrong neoliberal, anti-social and anti-democratic policies that are inextricably linked to it are once again being reinforced.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the proposed proposal for a regulation will help to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, as the aim is to create a european venture capital investment sector for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes).
in writing. the aim of this draft regulation, which i voted in favour of, is to lay down rules on the permitted investments and investment instruments to be carried out by the eltifs. their important social function is being strengthened by the eu, while an increasingly clear legal framework is being established for their operation and the community funding they can receive. for example, the regulation provides that each qualifying portfolio company must focus on achieving measurable and positive social impact and use its profits to achieve its primary objective in a responsible and transparent manner. in exceptional cases, where a qualifying holding company wishes to distribute profits to its shareholders and owners, it should be ensured that the distribution of profits does not undermine the primary social objective. however, as the aim is social work and not profit, the regulation makes it very difficult and under serious conditions for an sme to distribute profits, a point on which the european parliament has placed particular emphasis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, as i believe that the proposed regulation will help to develop and implement social programmes by allowing various investment funds to acquire the designation 'european social entrepreneurship fund'
in writing. the successive economic crises have hit women particularly hard. while women were already more affected than men by unemployment, precarious employment and low wages before the crisis, they are now being affected by measures taken by governments to reduce public deficits. i voted in favour of this report because it deals with a very important subject and proposes measures to protect women from the effects of the economic crisis.
in writing. gender equality is a fundamental human right. i voted in favour of mrs liotard's report because it deals with a very important subject and because its contribution to equality, progress and peace is considered positive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it urges member states to take all measures required to safeguard the environment and encourage sustainable development, while bearing in mind the need for a healthy and competitive economy. it emphasises that local communities must have a strong say in deciding the best balance between the needs of people and the needs of their environment.
this meeting is now in session.
the next item is the joint debate on:- decision on the opening and mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on direct payments to farmers under the cap support schemes - 2011/0280 (cod) - rapporteur: luis manuel capoulas santos (b7-0079/2013) (2013/2528 (rsp)) - decision on the opening and mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the establishment of a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products (single cmo regulation) - 2011/0281 (cod) - rapporteur: michel dantin (b7-0080/2013) (2013/2529 (rsp)) - decision on the opening and mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the development support for farmers under the cap support schemes - 2011/0280 (cod) - rapporteur: luis manuel capoulas santos (b7-0079/2013) (2013/2528 (rsp)) - decision on the opening and mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the establishment of a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products (single cmo regulation) - 2011/0281 (rsp)) - rapporteur: juan manuel capoulas santos (b7-0028/2013) - follow-up: juan manuel capoulas (b7-0028/2013) - commissioner: juan antonio lacerto) - decision on the european union's development financing of the european agricultural guidance and fisheries fund (agreement fund) - 2011/028/021028 (cod) - 2011/028 (d) - 2011/028 (com (2013/30303030 (cod) - decision on the opening and mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the european development support for the european agriculture and fisheries fund for the european development fund for the european agricultural guid
ladies and gentlemen, i should also like to inform you that commissioner cioloş was slightly delayed in his arrival from brussels due to weather conditions.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the madam president, more europe requires an adequate budget; we have instead a macroeconomic austerity budget. more europe means a thriving rural europe, a strong common agricultural policy; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. european agricultural income is shrinking, while production costs and the instability of agricultural markets are increasing. in the cap we are calling for adequate income support for farmers, effective market and risk management measures, strengthening the bargaining position of producers vis-à-vis the other links in the supply chain, and structural rural development measures centred on agriculture. at the same time, we urge the commission to subject imported products to standards equivalent to those of products produced within the union, as emphasized in my report on this subject, which was voted for by the parliament as a whole. the multifunctional european agricultural sector has a clear added value to the european economy and a major role in addressing the socioeconomic and environmental challenges facing the union. it provides public goods of major importance to our societies. a strong cap is therefore more necessary than ever.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in cereals, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction. protecting the environment, biodiversity and natural resources from climate change is not a luxury; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. but it will only be achieved when its importance is understood by all. the role of counselling services is therefore crucial. it is also crucial that the farmer understands the importance of adapting to the demands of the consumer. how can the threat of opening up markets be turned into an opportunity? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. let us take the first step towards a more targeted policy, closer to convergence for real rural development.
mr president, we are called upon to re-examine the direction of the european union's food and agricultural system with reforms that will affect the landscape of the european countryside, the way in which agricultural products are produced and distributed on a global scale. i congratulate the rapporteurs and i understand the difficulties of their work. but i would like to say this: agricultural policy must become a tool for social policy. cutting funding doesn't help that. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the european union. but the earth's population is growing and so is the demand for agricultural products. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think that should be our motto, and i would ask the commissioner to take it seriously.
mr president, i should first like to thank mrs hirsch, the rapporteur, with whom we have worked on many subjects and whom i particularly appreciate, and to stress that her work on this report is excellent. the debate today is about the added value to europe's competitiveness of exploiting the potential of immigrants, but also about social cohesion in many member states, especially those suffering from the economic crisis and austerity policies. we must therefore develop a clear strategy to attract migrants, which will benefit the european economy, and we must also intensify our efforts - and this must be emphasized - to combat illegal immigration, both through our increased cooperation in protecting europe's borders and through our policies within the union. and of course we all agree that the protection of human dignity and the fundamental rights of every migrant, legal or not, must be taken for granted in today's europe. but in some areas this report goes much further, and that is what is particularly troubling to us. i quote specific paragraphs: paragraph 61 refers to the legalisation of migrants without legal documents. paragraph 13 refers to the possibility of giving voting rights to all immigrants, including those who are not legally present. in paragraph 36, and particularly in relation to the possibility of asylum seekers having access to work, the report goes much further than what we are currently negotiating in the asylum package. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to citizenship is guaranteed in the member states. these are red lines which we cannot and must not cross and they concern issues on which europe has a firm position, issues on which our political group, the european people's party, has been stable over time. these are policies that do not address illegal immigration, but instead encourage it. these are policies that do nothing to help the smooth integration of legal immigrants. (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, nadja hirsch, for making a bold report, which goes beyond the usual. and in this parliament, at this difficult time, at this difficult period that the european union is going through, we need bold reports like that of nadja hirsch. i want us to reflect, especially those of us who come from small countries, like myself from greece, and to remember the time when we were immigrants too. greek immigrants went to various member countries of the european union, were able to get ahead and work and then returned to their homeland and added value there too. the memory in this case has its own value in a difficult time, a time when we must all, and the european parliament in particular, make sure that it is fair. when immigrants come from third countries and the host country is hospitable, is generous, is not miserable, that helps europe, it helps the residents of the host country, it helps to have human, social and economic capital within countries that need it very much; i would like to say that the commission has not been able to take the initiative in this matter, and that it is not the commission's intention to take the initiative. when they work legally, when they contribute to social security systems, they are literally blood donors to the economic condition of a country. that is why i, following the line of the nadja hirsch report, propose that we look at legal immigration not as a problem but as an opportunity for us all to become better. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. i thank you, mr president, for your question. i will answer in the exact words you used in your question: immigration, legal immigration, can offer solutions to our problems as well. if you look at the numbers and the social security contributions of legal immigrants, you might be convinced that i may be right.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner has already mentioned the problems of these countries. it does not discriminate between those who are most in need of social protection. it does not discriminate against those whose support is most urgent in times of need. i will give just one example from greece. the unemployment rate today is close to the unbearable 27%. but be careful: the unemployment rate for disabled people is over 55%. it is therefore the same as youth unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are right to refer, and we did so today, to health care issues, to social welfare issues; is strictly necessary; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of experts in the field of information and communication technologies, the development of a european network of experts in the field of information and communication technologies, and the development of a european network of experts in the field of information and communication technologies.
the march council, mr president, is convened in the light of two realities: first, the decisions taken by the council on the multiannual financial framework and, secondly, in the light of the crisis and how it is being dealt with. many countries have made enormous efforts to deal with the crisis, including my own country. but this means great austerity, sacrifice and great poverty. on the other hand, the financial crisis seems to be recovering -- or rather, europe is recovering from the financial crisis. but it has not recovered from the social and political crisis after all. the multiannual financial framework and the conclusion reached by the council show its inability to understand that, when there is a crisis and this is the reality, it is then that the community budget must be different, not just bigger but also more effective, something which has not happened in many areas until now. research, the knowledge society, innovation and other areas were mentioned. it has been shown that in the first decade of the lisbon guidelines we have failed to achieve our objectives. i am afraid that we will fail again today with the budget and the way we see it. parliament must reject this budget outright and negotiate something else, because it is a scandal to have a budget that is a priori in deficit, a budget that is structurally in deficit, when there is no provision for this in the treaty.
mr president, since i am the last speaker, may i make an appeal, in particular to the president-in-office of the council, the dear minister creighton: the european council must have the right debate at the right time, and the right debate at the right time is about how to win back the citizens' trust in europe. in greece, italy, spain, portugal and elsewhere, we have a social crisis without precedent and we also have a threat of systemic collapse, this time not of the financial markets but of the political system, and that is the pro-european political system. look at the eurobarometer! for the first time in europe's history, it shows that among the 27 member states, only two have a majority of confidence in europe and its institutions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the budgetary discipline required to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. the eu needs an ambitious long-term investment and solidarity budget that responds to the needs and challenges of the future. while the council's agreement on the mff 2014-2020 does not ensure this, it is the starting point for substantive negotiations between the council and parliament on a comprehensive package that will include securing the necessary resources to deliver the budgetary instruments to the political priorities of the union. it is also equally important to include in the mff regulation provisions for a mandatory mid-term review reflecting the needs that will arise over the next seven years, as well as appropriate flexibility, for the use of available funds between the categories of the mff. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which called for the immediate release of the remaining prisoners and for the immediate release of the former prisoners of war. we have a duty to prevent a structural deficit in the community budget and that is why we ask the member states to cover all outstanding payments so that they are not carried over to the new mff. finally, we argue that the relevant committees should decide on the corresponding legislative texts in the sectoral negotiations which, under the lisbon treaty, are subject to the co-decision procedure.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is a sovereign vote of parliament and, of course, i have a list of amendments that are improvements, according to our assessment of the text. these are, for example, on new definitions, aspects related to monitoring and compliance, maritime law, certificate inspections, seafarers’ complaints and so on. some of them should be subject to redrafting and clarification. for example: quality of a system for inspection and certification to be established by the member states, references to organisations in charge of verification of implementation of a directive, or onboard seafarers’ complaints. i have, by the way, also been a seafarer in my life. there are several amendments, and they are related precisely to the issue of recruitment of seafarers and labour-supplying states, which are more problematic, including the amendments presented by the rapporteur today. these are taken directly from the convention, but they are not covered by the agreement with the social partners, and i understand the position of parliament wishing to take into account what was agreed with the social partners. i do not want to go into the details, as the vote is long and there are many amendments, but i would like, in the name of the commission, to say that parliament should not create a new set of requirements for certificates in addition to those already established under the maritime labour convention. so that is, in a nutshell, the position of the commission on the vote of parliament, but the vote of parliament is a vote by people elected by the people and should be a sovereign vote.
mr president, the reasoning put forward by the honourable member is perfectly reasonable and i believe that, in view of the established situation, the established status of the number of members representing the various states - the 27 states that are today - we should find other ways, rather than creating resentment among the states and the citizens of the states, of reducing or unfairly increasing the number of meps rather than redistributing them. i therefore consider the request to be very reasonable and i support it.
mr gollnisch, i understand your wishes but we have decided on the specific requests and we must proceed.
mr president, these are critical times and we are all praying for mr papastamco. but because president schulz also mentioned what happened and why we had a long vote and so on, i would ask your bureau to look at what exactly happened and for too long, as the president himself said, the doctors were the ones who were taking care of papastamco and not the ones who should have been. and many were late to arrive on time to our vice-president of parliament to offer first aid. please investigate this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i cannot but express my strong protest that, in the wake of the tragic incident involving george papastamcu, to whom i wish the best, i have observed an unacceptable situation here in the european parliament. this can happen to anyone, especially to employees, so the problem must be overcome as quickly as possible. as regards the matter before us, i remember that in this chamber mrs ashton said that the european union's policy in egypt is money, market, 'mobility', as she said. that is why i am not surprised that this situation exists in this country. there is no prospect, people see that exploitation is their prospect and much more these prospects are made even tougher by the competition of the great powers for the oil and gas of the region, as we see happening in the eastern mediterranean, with rivalries, with fleets, with wars, and that is why this policy must be brought to an end.
mr president, mrs ashton, i was particularly surprised to learn from you today that we are allocating 5 billion for egypt from the deficit of european citizens. i think we need a political vision with clear objectives when we give money. we love egypt, we love the egyptian people, but we want to have a direction towards democracy, not towards extremism. the morsi government is violating the principles of the european union every day and we continue to fund it. at the same time, poverty is increasing in the european union. how are we going to justify this to the european taxpayer? the issue, i believe, is not only financial but also ideological. the european union must honour its values and the bilateral negotiations it has signed on human rights and democracy, which are being violently attacked in egypt, particularly by christians. please pay close attention to this matter.
mr president, our condemnation of pyongyang's new provocative actions is unequivocal. it is important, however, to avoid further escalation and to maintain the logic of peace in the region. the north korean regime must address the real needs of the people already living in a humanitarian crisis, improve the human rights situation and stop investing in futile arms programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is particularly important that the text is not limited to pyongyang's nuclear ambitions. the new nuclear tests by north korea and the situation with iran should, however, be an occasion for us to rethink what we have done wrong with regard to non-proliferation. i fear that as long as some states are allowed to have nuclear arsenals it is difficult to make a convincing argument for prohibiting others from having them. the tactics of isolation and sanctions have also failed to produce the desired results. the key word should be 'engagement' and not just 'diplomatic isolation'. we must therefore see how we can involve all sides in an effort towards a more general nuclear disarmament. we must build on the principles of humanitarian law, make it clear that threats of first strike have no meaning. such a move is self-defeating for mankind. and this simple logic makes the very existence of nuclear weapons in the world insane.
mr president, i want to emphasize that humanitarian aid is not enough. the european union has been generous. but we must understand that the sums committed at the kuwait meeting must be paid. i was in lebanon recently with mr obermayr and other colleagues and we saw that it is only until june that the un has the resources to meet the rapid increase in the flow of migrants. we must therefore press not for the payment of our own resources but for the payment by international donors and for the coordination of this aid, the non-politicisation of those who go there, because that too is a risk, and secondly, we need to press for a political solution, because the situation is becoming irregular in lebanon, it is pressing jordan for other reasons, and lebanon is the only country that keeps its borders open but cannot absorb the flow of refugees who have arrived there. well, given all the domestic political issues that arise, there will certainly be negative repercussions for the region and for world peace.
in writing. i congratulate mr belder on his comprehensive and very good report. china has become a very good example of a country that has transformed itself from one of the poorest countries in the world to the second largest economy in just 30 years. the eu-china strategic partnership is of great importance, no one doubts that, especially in these challenging times. the creation of a framework for addressing issues of concern to both sides, i believe, will also help to promote issues such as human rights, labour issues, energy, nuclear, environmental and so on. the proposal to seek synergies between china's 12th five year plan and the europe 2020 strategy with a view to deepening cooperation and coordination in various fields is considered to be of particular importance. china, "no longer the 'hell of nations' as nikos kazantzakis once called it on his arrival in the asian country, is now a 'melting pot' of nations, and the world is becoming a 'melting pot' of nations".
mr president, commissioner, i would like to point out that my colleague mr papastamkos, who is fighting a difficult battle and we hope he will come back strong, had shown interest and had taken initiatives on this subject and i thought it appropriate and our duty to mention it because he was one of the people who was fighting for this phenomenon we are discussing today. i'm aware of the latest europol figures on the rigging. this is not a new phenomenon. the phenomenon has taken on enormous proportions. he even listens to amateur sports. the problem and the causes are, in my view, due to the fact that there is an extreme commercialisation, and the introduction of legal and illegal betting has undermined the foundations of sports and especially football. there is a problem with the national authorities who are either unwilling or unable to take action. the self-government which is often invoked, madam commissioner, must not be an excuse for taking strict measures, sanctions, in order to defend as far as possible 'i have no illusions' and to preserve sport and its ideals for the younger generation.
mr president, the phenomenon of corruption in sport is not new. europe has been dealing with these issues since the 1980s. i am reminded of the totonero scandal in italy and others in other countries. until recently, at the olympics, we had an investigation into possible corruption in a boxing match. and of course, corruption in sport is mainly about europe. this is also reflected in the europol figures, as my colleagues have already mentioned: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new directive. what has changed in recent years is that the lisbon treaty now gives europe greater power to intervene in these matters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are aware of the commission's initiatives. i have listened carefully to the commissioner before and, of course, we must do much more both to tackle the problems and to prevent them. let me give you an example: i don't know if we feel we're doing enough preventive oversight and control in online betting. the white paper on sport is important. the nicosia declaration last september on cheating is very important, as is the commission's communication two years ago on the european dimension in sport. europe is proud of its sport. it's part of her ethos, and we must preserve it as long as we can.
rapporteur. − mr president, in paragraph 14, in the second line, we would ask for the addition of ‘and supply’. that is my proposal, mr president.
in writing. the arab spring in the countries of north africa brought new challenges to the situation of women in these countries. i voted in favour of this report because it contains substantial proposals for democratization in these countries, since there is no genuine democracy which takes into account only half the population.
in writing. the present proposal for a regulation, which i voted in favour of, aims to establish clearer and more transparent rules for the collection and publication of macroeconomic data in the eu. the current economic crisis, the great public debate on the reliability of statistics and the need for accountability and control of the use of community resources require a comprehensive review of the european system of national and regional accounts. among other things, the main objective of the regulation is to provide eu citizens with statistics of the highest quality, based on the appropriate methodology, while being as complete as possible in order to ensure maximum transparency, particularly in the public sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it recognises that independent, reliable, comparable and timely data are necessary for policy-makers as well as economic operators and citizens to measure, assess and monitor economic reality and developments. every effort should be made to ensure that the revised european system of accounts provides eu citizens with high quality macroeconomic statistics, based on sound methodology and delivered on an accurate timetable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which coincides with the great efforts of the greek government to promote the greek flag. it is encouraging that the eu is contributing to the overall framework for flag state control and the implementation of the maritime labour convention (mlc) 2006 in order to avoid divergent interpretations by member states, which can lead to unfair competition and social dumping. this report contributes to the inspection and enforcement of compliance with the rules and complaint procedures on board and takes another step towards the establishment of a single european framework on the rules governing shipping, an issue of particular priority concern to our country.
in writing. 14. i voted in favour of the report because it recognises that independent, reliable, comparable and timely data are necessary for policy-makers as well as for economic operators and citizens to measure, assess and monitor economic reality and developments. every effort should be made to ensure that the revised esa provides eu citizens with high quality macroeconomic statistics, based on sound methodology and delivered on an accurate timetable.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of guidelines for the 2014 eu budget, an investment and solidarity budget, whose priorities should be economic recovery and growth, competitiveness, strengthening employment and combating youth unemployment. however, 2014 is a year in which two very important challenges will have to be addressed. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the number of sampled union producers in the sample. as no agreement has yet been reached, the ceilings for 2014 have not been set. this makes it more difficult to define the general guidelines for the budget for the year in question. the second challenge concerns the level of payments. it is crucial to have an adequate level of payments in 2014, given that since 2010 the payment shortfalls have been steadily increasing and at the end of 2013 exceeded eur 16 billion, effectively putting the community budget in deficit. to address this, parliament calls on the commission to present a corrective budget for 2013 as soon as possible and expresses its determination not to accept an inadequate level of payments, both for 2014 and for the mff 2014-2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it proposes measures applicable to the spirit drinks sector that safeguard the reputation which spirit drinks have achieved in the european union and on the world market, by continuing to take into account the traditional practices used in the production of spirit drinks.
in writing. − i voted in favour. one of the major issues young farmers face when deciding to start out is the expense and administrative hurdles of taking over farming activities from their elders. these different elements, and the difficult generational transition, are among the reasons why the average age of farmers in the eu is above 50 years old. facilitating generational transition through public-private partnerships should be integrated into the indicative list of measures and operations of particular relevance to thematic sub-programmes, in order to take this element into consideration when developing rural development tools at national level.
in writing. energy must be one of the most basic public goods for the citizens of the member states. the javella report does not follow this logic, as it is entirely in line with the neoliberal orientations of eu energy planning. it gives limited emphasis to the social dimension of energy policy, does not protect the rights of the citizen-consumer and does not promote practices to reduce inequality in access to energy. further privatisation and full liberalisation of the energy market are its political priorities. the report argues that competition rules are the key tool for achieving the completion of the single energy market, despite the fact that they give the strongest advantage to the union's economies. the commission's proposals also underestimate the importance of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and the reduction of the greenhouse effect. the main negative of the report is the reinstatement of the increased importance of nuclear energy in energy planning. the report, in its reference to exclusive economic zones, essentially bypasses international law, is vague and does not consistently emphasize the right of member states to declare eezs and conduct surveys. i have voted against the javella report for all these reasons.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs javella's report, which i consider to be balanced and complete. i fully support the proposal to delimit the exclusive economic zones of the eu member states and the third countries concerned, in accordance with the united nations convention on the law of the sea. i also welcome the reference to the importance of the deposits in the south-eastern mediterranean, which can play a role in regional stability and peace in the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, as did my colleagues in the new democracy group, on the energy roadmap 2050, an own-initiative report without legislative force, but that does not mean that there are no points of concern, which were reflected in the group's individual negative votes. paragraphs 9 and 103: the replacement of national energy objectives by global european or regional objectives constitutes a limitation of the possibilities or the multiplicity of national energy policy. paragraph 76: the omission of reference, other than to unclos, to international contractual law in general and to national law, makes the regulation problematic and dangerous. paragraph 77: the eu's prevention of international frictions must be based on the international convention on the law of the sea alone. the reference to article 49 of the nabucco project, in which greece does not participate, even indicatively, limits the national energy network policy represented by other networks. the text downplays, if not ignores (paragraphs 4, 18, 63, 64, 83), the extremely cautious attitude of the great majority of european citizens and member states towards nuclear energy and calls on the commission, in paragraph 63, to campaign to change public opinion in favour of nuclear energy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it stresses that the commission and the member states should encourage non-eu countries with nuclear power plants, in particular neighbouring countries, to apply the stress test procedure and to share their results. equally, it notes the importance of strengthening international nuclear safety and security standards and implementing them properly, and it encourages the eu to continue cooperating in this regard at international level, in particular in the context of the iaea.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i strongly believe that it is important that the eu and its member states take action to fight racism and xenophobia by preventing them through education, promoting a culture of respect and tolerance, and ensuring that hate crimes are reported by victims, investigated by law enforcement authorities and punished by the judicial system.
in writing. i voted in favour of the westlund report because it recognises the health effects of endocrine disruptors, the pathologies they cause and the need for immediate action in the field of chemicals policy. according to a eurobarometer survey in the 27 eu countries, 83% of consumers are concerned that the food and drink they consume contains chemicals, while between 74% and 90% are concerned about chemicals in cosmetics, clothing, furniture and, especially, toys and childcare products. the existing eu legislation is based on a chemical-by-chemical approach. but today we know that endocrine disruptors act even at very low doses and that we should take into account their combined effects. this is why further action is needed in the area of chemicals policy, research and evaluation methods to address the combined effects of chemicals. the european commission should review its strategy on endocrine disruptors based on the precautionary principle. with the primary objective of ensuring the safety of consumers, particularly vulnerable groups, it should follow the example of denmark, which banned diphenol a in paediatric food and cosmetics packaging.
in writing. − the increased incidence of hormone-related disorders and illnesses in humans needs to be taken very seriously indeed. the endocrine system regulates much of what happens in the body, including reproduction, metabolism, growth, salt and water balance and cardiac function. there is a disturbing trend particularly with regard to human reproductive capacity, where endocrine disruptors are thought to be a contributory factor. i voted in favour of this report because endocrine disruptors influence the human environment, and if not addressed quickly can create irreversible damage to humans and the environment.
in writing. the commission's own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, deals with an issue which has also been of great concern to our country. although not binding, this report makes some valuable suggestions, particularly with regard to the development of asbestos removal and safe deposit schemes. it also stresses that directive 1999/77/ec states that 'no exposure threshold has yet been established for gold-silver asbestos below which it does not present a carcinogenic hazard' and therefore calls for the relevant european framework in this area to be strengthened. the same applies to the dumping of asbestos waste in landfills, which does not seem to be the safest way of eliminating the release of asbestos fibres into the environment, a problem for which the ep proposes the use of asbestos inactivation systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. it has been generally accepted by courts that there is no known threshold exposure to asbestos below which there is no risk. the aim should be job creation and the provision of workplace conditions which promote the health and well-being of individuals.
mr president, backloading means higher electricity bills throughout europe, even in the countries most affected by the crisis and suffering from appalling unemployment: higher bills at the expense of the living standards of people in desperation, and at the expense of the competitiveness of economies in crisis. why is backloading happening when our environmental goals are being met? the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries, but that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. the backloading is done to collect extra revenue from the back door for the states, and it is done mainly because its promoters refuse to admit that the economic objectives of our climate policy have failed miserably because of the american 'revolution' in shale gas and the 'defeat' of photovoltaics by china. it's because they refuse to accept reality.
mr president, we really need to call things as they are. on 1 january 2013, the state electricity company asks for and receives a significant increase in electricity tariffs in order to be able to pay the polluting rights at the price of eur 7/tonne. citizens, since 1 january 2013, pay 7 euros, but the ppp, at the moment, returns to the state - because the state gets these revenues - only 3.5 euros, or 4.5 or 5 euros. at the moment it is the p.e.c. that is putting it in its pocket, the company that will soon be privatized. if we vote for the commission's proposal tomorrow, the price will rise to 6 or 7 euros. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new energy policy. no increase in the prices of the citizens. if the bill is defeated, what's going to be reduced is government revenue because the stock market will collapse, the price will go to zero. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the electricity market is not affected by the price fluctuations in the market. its deficit is 300 million today and is estimated to exceed 1 billion in 2015. this shortfall will be the "hat" on the price of electricity. those who vote against this proposal tomorrow are doing harm to the public, putting a "hat" on the households and will only benefit the pocket of the new owner of the public electricity company in greece. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question of the day: blue card. why don't the p.e.c. lower the tariffs instead of doing all those things you say? i want the backloading vote to be thrown out and the tariffs to be lowered. get back at the raise you gave.
answer is "blue card". mr. doggett, you know very well that's not going to happen. but suppose it did. the collapse of the emissions market means, quite simply, that citizens will suffer the huge deficit of the lagie as a 'res' (renewable energy sources) cost in their accounts. it is in this case that there will be an increase in the bills of citizens: if we vote against this proposal, if the market for polluting substances collapses, then the cost will be borne by the citizens.
mr president, commissioner, no one doubts the important role played by the ets in the functioning of the common internal energy market and the importance of investment in cleaner forms of energy. however, the commission's proposal today does not solve the problems of the ets. it is a temporary solution and, with all due respect, we have seen in recent years many 'temporary' solutions become 'permanent' for the european union. commissioner, the ets needs long-term structural reforms and it would have been better if you had proposed a more holistic proposal with longer-term intentions. you've had plenty of time for a more effective report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead, we are now discussing whether or not the ets will survive.
mr president, i have been told that the english interpretation when i was speaking gave completely the opposite message – that i am proposing that people should vote against back-loading. of course this is not the case. i will urge the interpreters to really help us use our mother language and to provide proper interpretation. it may be that some things are not interpreted perfectly but they should not give completely the opposite message.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the confusing debate over whether enisa should be based in heraklion, crete, athens or the hague is an attempt to obscure the essential issues. the essence is the transformation of this european union organization and the large monopoly interests associated with cyber warfare. the amendments to the regulation proposed in the european parliament's report are even more reactionary than the commission's proposal. in fact, enisa is being replaced by another body whose objectives include police tasks. not just the security of communications networks but actually the european union's "anti-terrorism" policy and "fighting" terrorist attacks in cyberspace, "protecting vital information infrastructures", as they say, public and private. the agency is thus intended to provide the technological infrastructure for the enforcement mechanisms of the european union and the member states by eliminating the inadequate and false documented measures of personal data protection in national legislation. it will be directly linked to private companies - manufacturers of network equipment, research centres and universities, software and countermeasures dealers. it also aims to complete the single market and the digital agenda worth tens of billions of euros. the developments with enisa show that there is no eu policy that is not directed towards serving the interests of the monopolies. the anti-people character of the eu is sweeping away the interests of the people, democratic rights and freedoms of the people. the need for a workers' and people's struggle to overthrow the eu, to unleash the socialised means of production and popular power is becoming more urgent.
i am afraid, madam president, commissioner, that i have a different opinion from the rapporteurs, since i do not even think that parliament or the commission has stood up to them on the subject of enisa, an agency of strategic importance. i have followed the enisa issue very closely and it was clear that the rapporteur's first priority, mr chichester, was not to strengthen the agency but to move its headquarters from crete, in principle, and from greece, in second place. all sorts of unlikely arguments were used to convince us that the headquarters of a technologically advanced organization dealing with cybersecurity could not be located on a sunny southern island. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, etc. it is clear that enisa should be the european union agency that uses computer tools to do its job from anywhere in europe. and unfortunately, in previous years, the commissioner has given cover to management practices and to sad events of pressure and even dismissal of employees. convictions by the european data protection supervisor for breaching the personal data of enisa staff and convictions by the european court of justice for wasting money on european citizens did not deter the commissioner, who continues to support the administration, something that would not be tolerated in any other organisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is obvious that it will play an important role in the future. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is a compromise that does not reflect the sacrifices that greece has made in conditions of unprecedented economic hardship that you all know, to make heraklion a suitable seat for enisa. i would therefore like to invite the commission to undertake in the coming years a detailed assessment of the option of transferring the majority of the agency's staff to athens and an analysis of the costs that would result from this transfer and the problems of operating in parallel at two locations.
mr president, the economic crisis, unemployment, insecurity and the violent loss of income have a significant impact on the health of citizens. people with severe survival problems are twice as likely to die prematurely or to become more sick because of problems that act cumulatively. unemployment leads to increased mortality, mental disorders, heart disease, increased addiction and substance dependence, and increased smoking. there is also a worsening of health problems associated with poor diet. large segments of society are driven to social exclusion, poverty and high morbidity, particularly those belonging to vulnerable groups. we cannot ignore the increase in suicides either. it is, however, doubly unhealthy to impose, in the context of horizontal restrictive policies, measures which also affect public health systems, increase inequalities in social protection conditions for health and worsen health and safety conditions. greece has had serious problems which are now being further aggravated by the policy of horizontal cuts.
mr president, the increase in the capital adequacy of banks in the european union is not intended to purportedly 'rehabilitate' the financial system so that the 'taxpayers' do not pay. the drumming about the supposed reduction of the "bonuses" of the managers, which is a problem, is intended to cover up the fact that the cause of the capitalist crisis is not the "irresponsible behavior" of some bankers, but the over-accumulation of capital. the european union, governments and monopolies are destroying the lives of the masses to save the profits of the capitalists. they are destroying the workforce, with 27 million unemployed, and that will only continue to grow. but to get the capitalist system out of the crisis, it needs to cause a large-scale destruction of capital. this is exacerbating the intra-imperialist rivalries, as we saw in the g20, in the eu and with the other imperialist centres. these conflicts are expressed in the regulation and the directive, which are the first steps towards the establishment of the mechanism of the european banking union. only the very large banks will be able to have the new high capital adequacy, while the smaller ones will be subject to acquisitions and mergers. we'll have giant financial groups, who will more aggressively intensify the exploitation of the working people and will suck the deposits.
in writing. enisa (european agency for network and information security) was established in march 2004. for greece, the continuation of its operations is important as the organisation is based in heraklion, crete. however, this report has raised the question of splitting the seat (mainly for reasons of reducing operational costs) between heraklion and brussels, a proposal which we are opposed to. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the networks is not compromised by the fact that the network is not protected by a computer. the over-concentration of bodies and institutions in brussels undermines the importance of decentralisation, which the eu itself is advocating, at a time when europe and european solidarity are particularly sensitive. the european union also has a number of decentralised agencies in various european cities. in any event, the argument of the proper use of community resources is refuted by the fact that recently eur 7 million was spent on the agency's building needs in heraklion and is now proposed to remain largely empty. i have voted against the whole report on this basis.
in writing. i would like to express my satisfaction with the renewal of enisa's mandate, but at the same time my regret that its mandate was renewed for only seven years, with a strict assessment of the seat after five years. such a short period is not sufficient to provide the agency with the predictability it needs to carry out the very important operational and institutional responsibilities it has now assumed, as it takes a long time for the investments and measures to enhance its functionality to bear fruit. this limited time also creates insecurity among staff, which will undoubtedly have a negative impact on their performance and the effectiveness of the agency's own actions. i could not ignore the fact that the establishment of an office in athens would involve a considerable increase in the agency's operating costs, since its operational staff, and particularly the technical staff, who constitute the vast majority of its employees, would be transferred there. the creation of an additional financial and administrative burden at a time when all member states are struggling to save raises serious doubts about the advisability of such a decision. i have therefore decided to vote against the report.
in writing. i welcome the recognition of the importance of enisa in ensuring cybersecurity in the eu, the renewal of the agency's mandate, and the confirmation of its seat in greece. the report, however, attempts to solve a virtual problem - the distance of the agency from the eu centres - by adopting a real problem: the split of the agency between athens and heraklion. it is a bad compromise, an impractical and very costly solution which does not meet the needs of the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would point out that the new building of enisa in heraklion, which cost 7 million euros, is now virtually unused and will remain largely empty. i would point out that enisa remains the only eu agency that does not have a permanent mandate. an agency with a temporary mandate cannot operate in a strategic way. for these reasons, i voted against the proposal for the renewal of the mandate of the agency as it was put to the vote.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a recent european instrument designed to support citizens who lose their jobs as a result of the economic crisis and to re-train them so that they can re-enter the labour market in a short time. i supported this report and others which help to achieve the fund's objective. it is true that italy and spain in particular have made extensive use of the fund's resources, while greece has made use of its provisions only once (for aldi staff), and therefore, given the crisis, there is scope for even greater mobilisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. it includes, amongst others, personalised services to be co-funded such as occupational guidance, job-search assistance, entrepreneurship promotion, vocational training and skills upgrade, guidance for the over-50s, job-search allowance, hiring benefit, contribution to commuting expenses and contribution to the expenses for a change of residence.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to support the 1517 workers made redundant by the company antonio merloni spa, which is active in the manufacture of household appliances. the ongoing economic and financial crisis in italy further highlights the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as a tool of the european union's social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. the support provided is also a practical expression of the european union's solidarity. the italian government is making efforts to rationalize the budget and to cut expenditure drastically. the strengthening of the european globalisation adjustment fund will be able to make a decisive contribution to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the country's fiscal consolidation efforts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to support 856 redundant workers in the information and communication technology services company agile s.r.l. the fund shall provide financial support for targeted programmes for the retraining and reintegration into the labour market of persons affected by collective redundancies. the fact is that the prolonged economic and financial crisis in italian society, which has resulted in an increase in unemployment in the country, highlights the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the fund is one of the most visible and tangible expressions of the european union's social policy and the support it provides is the practical expression of the european union's solidarity. the support provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund makes a decisive contribution to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the fiscal consolidation efforts of the national budget of a country such as italy, whose government is making efforts to streamline its budget and cut public expenditure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for austria to support 270 workers made redundant in the tobacco industry austria tabak. it is clear that the negative consequences of the economic and financial crisis which the member states of the union continue to experience highlight the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as one of the most important social policy instruments available to the union. financial support for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is crucial in helping the workers affected to find work. in addition, the support provided is a practical and visible expression of the union's solidarity. finally, the case of austria is the best illustration of the fact that this financial instrument does not limit its activity only to countries facing economic and budgetary challenges but can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries. this in turn underlines the importance of that fund and demonstrates the need to continue its operation during the upcoming multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. i want to make it clear from the outset that i am against the institution of pollution rights in the context of a polluter-pays market. i believe that the environment is not a commodity to be traded, to which we attach a price so that some companies can buy the right to pollute the air. unfortunately, however, in the absence of an alternative, this european emissions trading system is the necessary evil, which establishes a framework and a procedure for adopting measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. my vote in favour of the groote report is not only a vote in favour of combating climate change and developing innovative and anti-pollution methods, but also a vote against the large multinational industrial groups which derive enormous economic benefits from the accumulation of unused rights. the vote on the groote report weakens investment in low-carbon and renewable energy technologies. i believe that without the active participation of industry it is impossible to reverse the course of ecological deterioration. the so-called choice between jobs and a clean environment has been the wrong dilemma traditionally posed by industry. the european trade union confederation has today given its unreserved support to the groote report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report upgrading the relevant eu regulation. for greece, the more complete forecasts for airports and ground services are certainly positive, as they improve the quality of those services which are also inextricably linked to the tourist product and therefore to the economy of our country. the additions to the regulation concern the elimination of flight delays (for ground service issues) and the protection of workers by not further liberalising service providers as this would further reduce the profit margin by squeezing workers' wages and causing wage dumping.
in writing. − directive 2004/113/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services (hereafter referred as ‘the directive’) marked an important step in the development of eu gender equality laws when it entered in force on 21 december 2004. i voted in favour of this report because this directive prohibits both direct and indirect discrimination based on sex in the access to and supply of goods and services that are available to the public, in both the public and private sectors.
in writing. the safest way to increase greek exports - which are already showing very encouraging signs - and thus to restore a positive trade balance in the country is to ensure more favourable trade arrangements and transactions. the report, which i voted for, focuses on the positive effects of trade support on local, regional and national economies and on encouraging measures to promote more advanced and profitable production. greece has nothing to gain from reducing barriers and tariffs with third countries as it trades products which have a high degree of comparative advantage (e.g. certain agricultural products). private sector development, trade capacity building, trade assistance, good governance, anti-corruption and the effective use of fiscal resources by third countries will ensure structures that further encourage their trade with the eu and break down protective barriers and regulations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises that the eu’s trade policy needs to be geared towards producing positive knock-on effects in local, national and regional economies, promoting diversification of developing countries’ economies and encouraging steps towards more advanced and income-yielding production.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises that the eu’s trade policy needs to be geared towards producing positive knock-on effects in local, national and regional economies, promoting diversification of developing countries’ economies, and encouraging steps towards more advanced and income-yielding production.
question of the day: blue card. you admit that a change of circumstances will take several years? do you also accept that many of the member states awaiting structural changes in the european central bank will meanwhile have died economically? is that one of the reasons you want to invoke a change of circumstances?
madam president, mr president of the european central bank, the european central bank has earned the trust of citizens and markets by its commitment to its mission of price stability and, at the same time, by its courageous and decisive decisions to stabilise markets. the european central bank is, has been and continues to be a key player in the effort to balance support between governments and banks. we know, mr president, that you are anxious for european integration and we share your concern. it is a fact that the european central bank cannot replace national governments or european institutions and that its own efforts to deal with the financial crisis will not be effective unless reforms are made everywhere, unless common instruments are adopted to prevent and deal with debt and borrowing, unless banking union is achieved. in this context of joint responsibility and joint liability, i would refer to the difficulty that still exists in accessing liquidity to the real economy. as the european parliament stresses in its resolution, there is a need for commitment and systematic monitoring to increase credit, especially to smes, from the bodies through which the european central bank supports liquidity. as a member of the troika, you will no doubt have been aware that this situation is particularly painful for countries implementing a stabilisation programme, because of the fiscal implications. it should also be stressed that these difficulties are made even greater for southern businesses by the unequal access to finance. this alone destroys confidence in the eurozone. in conclusion, i would like to stress and endorse the call for transparency in decisions and procedures and for a substantial role for the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, mr president of the european central bank, the european parliament has on many occasions recognised the constructive role played by the european central bank in the stability of the euro area and in the uniform transmission of monetary policy. the crisis, however, as you said, is still here and has the very harsh face of unprecedented mass unemployment and economic slowdown, or even recession, in several countries and particularly, of course, in those which are implementing stabilization programmes. in order to deal with all this, we need coherent european responses and not piecemeal solutions in the logic of specific cases - as happened, once again, in the case of cyprus - recycling and extending negative stereotypes among the peoples of europe. and on this occasion, mr president, i would like to ask you something about the report that has been published by the european central bank, which comes to the controversial conclusion, at least, that the wealth of the average household in germany is much lower than that of the average household in countries that are experiencing problems, such as spain, greece, italy, cyprus. i would like to ask what the rationale is for publishing this report, which gives the wrong impression, since it is based, for the most part, on old data from 2008 and on fragmentary data - for example, it measures real estate but not movable property - and to ask you, mr president, whether it is the "position" of the european central bank that households in spain, portugal, greece, cyprus are richer than in germany, as a large section of the german press is claiming these days, republishing data from the european central bank report.
madam president, i really enjoyed the title given to mr draghi yesterday in the wall street journal – ‘rock star draghi’! i think it was because bankers nowadays can really rock nations and people. i thank mr draghi, and the commissioner, for whatever they have done up till now for the crisis, but the cyprus ‘bail-in’ crisis points to the need for a strong banking union. the eurozone’s single banking market will, however, remain incomplete without an eu-wide common deposit system – a eurozone guarantee system. so my question to mr draghi and the commissioner is this: is a common deposit insurance regime included in the forthcoming bank recovery and resolution directive in june?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 17 april 2013, at 11.30.
the next item is the joint debate on the granting of a discharge for 2011. i would like to welcome mrs kersti kaljulaid, member of the european court of auditors responsible for the court's statement of assurance.
the committee on fisheries adopted an opinion on the proposal. - madam president, the european fisheries control agency is responsible for promoting the highest common standards of control, inspection and surveillance in the framework of the cap. the importance of control is essential if we are to have an effective fisheries policy. the importance of this service, therefore, in view of the new reform of the cap, is enhanced and is considered essential for the achievement of the objectives we set ourselves when voting on the reform of the common fisheries policy. the court of auditors has found the underlying transactions in the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year ended 31 december 2011 to be legal and regular in all material respects. its operating results and cash flows for the year ended on that date are in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation. the committee on fisheries has therefore unanimously decided, in its opinion to the committee on budgets, to grant a discharge to the executive director of the european audit office in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2011.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the mr president, in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs we had no particular problems with the opinions we drafted on the granting of immunity. we have always supported by a large majority the granting of immunity to the seven bodies active in the field of civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the same was true of section iii of the budget in relation to the commission. i would like to draw your attention to two points which we consider to be of vital importance: the first has already been mentioned and refers to the need for more efficient budget execution of agencies but also for further focus on performance monitoring to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent in accordance with the value for money principles. it is very important, at this critical time, that european citizens know that their money is being spent wisely, efficiently and effectively. at the same time, and this is the second point, we would point out that the success of the mission of operational agencies such as frontex or europol depends to a large extent on unforeseeable external factors. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue card". when we took over the discharge procedure in 2011, we had the court of auditors' reports and all the relevant data and information before us. i don't know what you're talking about. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. however, it is something that has not come to our attention and i am hearing it from you now.
mr president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent work and their very good reports. i would also like to congratulate mr jens geier on his excellent report on the discharge of the european commission. let me refer specifically to the area of cohesion policy where it is worth noting that the error rate is lower than in 2010 and the period 2006-2008. this shows that, on the whole, considerable progress has been made, and we should acknowledge this. but we must not rest. the aim must and must be zero error rate and we must therefore make further efforts. i am sure we will all agree that, in the next cohesion policy programming period, there should be more simplification, transparency, accountability and effective controls that will help to improve the protection of the european union's financial interests. i would also like to mention the decentralized agencies. while progress has been made in their transparency, governance, accountability and budget implementation, there is room for further improvement. i would therefore like to remind all my colleagues that we must ensure that taxpayers' money is used properly, transparently and efficiently. i therefore support the report on the cost-benefit analysis of the dual seat of enisa, and at the same time i wonder why some colleagues refuse to agree to such a simple, reasonable and fully justified request.
mr president, the european parliament is prepared to grant discharge to the commission, despite the fact that we have not had a corresponding recommendation from the european court of auditors for another year: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not disagree with that position in the current european crisis, it is not the time to add another problem. in my view, however, this exemption is granted despite the fact that, in too many cases, the union's interests are not sufficiently protected and resources are not used efficiently, as is also clear from the first elements of the court of auditors' special reports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that we in this parliament look with embarrassment at these special reports of the court of auditors on the efficiency of european funds - reports which have not been of any concern to us in this house as they should have been - is indicative of the mentality that has prevailed. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the overwhelming majority of money, the european funds, are managed by member states with greater problems than the european institutions, despite the fact that they too have serious weaknesses. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 2000 to 2006 is based on the principle of the european monetary system (ems) and the principle of sound financial management. the people of our countries are asking for a much more efficient use of these funds in both the north and the south. there can be no serious fiscal and monetary union if a federal budget can operate on only 1% of gdp. but the budget will not be increased unless we actually use it much more effectively than we do today.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. in the past years, considerable savings have been made in the area of parliament's administrative expenditure. with the same determination, we will continue this year with a particular emphasis on continuing the structural and organisational reforms which should lead to considerable savings, but without jeopardising parliament's legislative activity. however, we cannot ignore the fact that in 2014 the administrative costs of croatia's accession will cover, for the first time, a full financial year. the main message we should send ahead of the european elections is that the european parliament is making its greatest contribution to the efforts to rationalise the budget at european level, while trying to maintain a high level of legislative work and fulfilling its role as the only directly elected body of the european union which defends and promotes the interests of the citizens of europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is that the report refers, of course, to an attempt by the commission to update the regulation on the balance of payments mechanism for countries whose currency is not the euro. the first problem is that the european parliament is not able to intervene in the substance of this procedure, it is not able to table amendments. the report that has been drawn up - and the rapporteur, if i am not mistaken, has acknowledged this - is therefore auxiliary, symbolic, and is intended to preserve the pretext of democratic legitimacy. the question of how the commission takes decisions and adopts regulations and how the role of the european parliament is restricted is once again raised. and the second reason is that both the commission proposal and the report adopt the practice whereby these measures, this mechanism, this support, these tools are used to ensure equal treatment between countries, inside and outside the euro. in our view, this is a pretext because it is essentially an organized attempt by the commission to pass the neoliberal paths of recession and austerity on to countries outside the euro. we know the recipe, we have experienced it in the countries within the euro, in greece, portugal, etc. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in cyprus.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the situation in cyprus (2013/2603 ((rsp))
ladies and gentlemen, we are not able to take questions with a blue card because, as i mentioned earlier, the inaugural meeting with the president of ireland is taking place and there is no time available.
mr president, the situation in the european union is now known to the council, parliament and the commission. the solution chosen in cyprus was an experiment which created doubts among depositors all over europe about whether their deposits were now safe, it created concern and, of course, the suspicion that if this had happened in another, larger country, in a northern country, this solution would not have been chosen. so the solution was wrong and disastrous. it was, of course, accepted, of necessity, by the leadership of cyprus. but in essence, you punished a newly elected leadership and somehow undermined its future. and this should be a lesson: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have to choose.
mr president, there are two problems with the eurogroup's decisions on cyprus. the first concerns democratic accountability, transparency, as many speakers have pointed out. the second concerns something i pointed out to you, vice-president rehn and commissioner barnier, in a letter i sent to you a few days ago, and it concerns the risks created by the piecemeal, punitive, experimental and flattening application of the bail-in process, which, while it is correct in principle - that is, the participation of the private sector in the cost of bank rescue - must be the ultimate tool in a coherent and comprehensive framework for bank resolution which, when applied in a flattening way, risks creating much bigger problems than it is trying to solve. i would like to ask you, vice-president rehn, what you intend to do to prevent the increase of uncertainty and insecurity, especially in countries which are experiencing economic difficulties and which need confidence in their financial system?
mr president, it is a fact that there is a responsibility for not having identified the problems of the cypriot banking system for so long and not having solved them in time, and on the other hand for having taken piecemeal decisions without a plan that leads to changes overnight in an entire society. that's not what politics is about. there have been spasmodic moves by both the eurogroup and the cypriot government over time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax system is not distorted. the problems of the banking system had to be addressed, but in a long-term way. the tax evasion should be tackled gradually. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the commission's budget for 2011, and i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jens geier, on his methodical work, his excellent report and for having for the first time engaged in a meaningful dialogue with the member states which showed the highest risk of error and systemic weaknesses in their management and control systems. i also welcome the commission's commitment to design and implement an action plan to address, inter alia, the root causes of errors in rural development, taking into account the need for corrective action for the current and future programming periods, and to implement measures to enhance the efficiency of customs and vat collection systems in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question is not to stop spending but to improve the quality of spending. this can be achieved by the implementation of more effective management and control systems by the member states and by greater simplification of these systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises that scrutiny is necessary to ensure that parliament’s administration is held accountable and that, given the great interest among citizens of the union and public opinion in parliament’s discharge procedure, it is essential for parliament to avoid any risk of opaque management and for it therefore to operate in a completely transparent manner to ensure that citizens of the union are provided with a true and accurate view of the way that parliament uses the resources placed at its disposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report granting the discharge to the european parliament for 2011 and i welcome the fact that the rapporteur has focused her report on the issues relating to the financial year in question, without covertly extending it to issues not related to the implementation of the 2011 budget. it should be stressed that in recent years there have been significant improvements in the implementation of parliament's budget. however, there is still room for further improvement. moreover, we must recognise that, at a time when budgets at national and european level are under pressure, the control of the implementation of parliament's budget is as important as that of the other institutions of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it recognises that transparency and accountability are prerequisites for democratic control, as well as an effective development aid. it is important to prevent illicit financial flows from developing countries, and make sure that development aid is managed wisely and by non-corrupt developing governments.
in writing. i voted against the report recommending that the discharge be deferred to the european council and the council for the financial year 2011. for another year, the european parliament faced the council's intransigent attitude and its refusal to provide any information or answers to the written questions of the members of the committee on budgetary control. it goes without saying that it is an inalienable right of the european parliament, as the granting authority, to have access to information and data which will help it to take an informed decision on whether or not to grant the exemption. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the control of the budgetary execution of all the institutions of the european union is a necessary step in the process of implementing the budget, and the same should of course apply to the european council and the council.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report granting discharge to the european court of auditors for 2011. in general, there were no substantial problems in the implementation of the court's budget, which is required to speed up the recruitment procedures for filling vacant posts in the court of auditors, and it is useful to assess the level of corruption in the use of community funds on the basis of olaf investigations. the court is also called upon to improve the content and presentation of its special reports, which provide valuable information on the financial management, efficiency and effectiveness of european policies and are an important tool in our efforts as meps to improve the work and policy produced by the union. parliament supports and appreciates the work of the european court of auditors and encourages it to focus more on performance audits than on compliance audits.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report granting the european ombudsman discharge for the financial year 2011. there were generally no substantial problems with the implementation of the ombudsman's budget. as an indication, the ombudsman's annual management plan for 2011 includes the key performance indicators to measure the performance of the service in achieving the internal auditor's objectives. the recommendations for improving internal management and control procedures have also been implemented and the comments made in the ombudsman's annual report on its activities for 2011 are considered to be highly satisfactory.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eu decentralised agencies for the financial year 2011, as i believe these agencies play an important role in achieving the objectives of european policies, generating significant benefits for citizens. moreover, although they represent less than 1% of the eu budget, their presence in the member states contributes to strengthening the european identity by demonstrating their european added value. it should also be underlined that 2011 marks a positive step in general in the horizontal approach to governance issues and is expected to contribute to their strengthening. in particular, progress has been made in implementing their budget, improving their audit systems and accounting management, and their performance is improving year by year. of course there is room for further improvement, particularly in the area of budgetary planning and financial management, and we should encourage the agencies in their efforts. it is our duty as meps to ensure that taxpayers' money is used correctly, transparently and efficiently, particularly in the current economic crisis, where the need for fiscal rationalisation is paramount at both national and european level.
in writing. the role of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) is to promote the smooth application of eu law and thereby contribute to the better functioning of the single market. taking into account the positive report of the court of auditors, the body concerned may be granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the granting of a discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training for the year 2011, as i believe that this agency plays an important role in achieving the objectives and results of european policies, particularly those relating to lifelong learning and education. it therefore also provides significant benefits for citizens and contributes to strengthening european identity by demonstrating its european added value. it should also be noted that the agency has made progress in implementing its budget, has improved its internal control systems and has perfected an online tool which will enhance the speed and efficiency of its recruitment, increasing its performance. of course there is room for further improvement, particularly in the area of financial management, and we must help the agency to take the necessary steps in this direction, in particular by supporting the development of synergies and closer cooperation with bodies such as the european training foundation. it is our duty as meps to ensure that taxpayers' money is used correctly, transparently and efficiently, particularly in the period of economic crisis in which we are living, when the need for fiscal rationalisation is acute, both at national and european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2011. the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on which i was rapporteur, states that the annual accounts of the european police college (cepol) show that the budget of the institution is being managed and used in a satisfactory manner. in addition, there has been considerable progress compared with previous years both in the academy's financial planning and in its performance, particularly in streamlining its governance. in the same context, the opinion calls on the court of auditors to pay greater attention to the audit of the sound financial management of seppol, in particular the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which seppol uses its appropriations to meet its obligations.
in writing. the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) aims to strengthen europe's defence against infectious diseases. i voted against this report for discharge, since the committee responsible and the court of auditors have given a favourable opinion on its financial situation.
in writing. echa helps companies comply with legislation, promotes the safe use of chemicals by providing information on chemicals and chemical addresses of concern. i voted for the discharge as it was accepted by the committee responsible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because the importance of control is essential if we want to have an effective common fisheries policy, especially in view of the new reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and the implementation of the objectives. therefore, and taking into account the court of auditors' report showing that its cash flows for the year ended are in line with the provisions of the financial regulation, the discharge is considered justified and in any event valid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i have found, on the basis of the court of auditors' findings, that the annual accounts of the centre present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the centre and the results of its operations and financial flows for the year 2011, and that the underlying transactions of the centre were legal and regular. however, the court of auditors found in its report that the emcdda still had to bear costs of eur 275 000 for unused office space. we therefore call on the centre to find adequate solutions in cooperation with the commission and the national authorities without delay and to keep the discharge authority informed of any developments in this matter. in the same context, we call on the centre to take all the necessary corrective measures announced in response to the individual critical comments of the court of auditors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the service supports member states in developing and implementing eu legislation on maritime safety, pollution from ships and general safety at sea. it also has operational tasks in the field of oil pollution response, vessel monitoring and long-range systems for the identification and tracking of ships. its mission is considered important, especially in the light of the new common fisheries policy, which strengthens its role in the control and sustainable exploitation of fish stocks.
in writing. i cannot understand the deletion of a paragraph from the report, as approved in the committee on budgetary control, on the preparation of a cost-benefit study of the parallel operation of enisa in two cities by the competent institution, the european court of auditors, given that the fragmentation of the agency, creating a branch in athens and relocating the vast majority of the staff there under the pretext of improving its operational capacity, entails a significant increase in its operational costs and a burden on community resources. the impact of such action on the european budget can only be a reasonable request, given the efforts being made at national and european level to streamline the budget. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. for these reasons, i have decided to vote against the resolution accompanying the discharge decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of this interim report because it calls for greater clarity on some of the key concepts in the proposal and seeks to establish financial support procedures which are clear, fair and do not impose unnecessary consultations where they are not required. moreover, the role of the eu budget as the ultimate guarantor for the financial support provided under that regulation should be reflected in appropriate accountability procedures towards the european parliament.
in writing. the kke voted against the report because it supports the commission's reactionary proposal for the operation of a balanced budget (bbm) mechanism, i.e. a fund to provide liquidity to non-euro area member states when they are in a state of fiscal instability. the report calls for this "financial assistance" to be accompanied by the same anti-people measures and capitalist restructuring imposed on eurozone member states that have recourse to the corresponding eurozone supervised insolvency mechanisms: cuts in wages and pensions, abolition of collective agreements, labour rights, insurance, cuts and commercialization of the public health-welfare and education sectors, divestment of public enterprises and mass layoffs of workers. the report's proposals for the provision of hot money through the emi or the european support mechanism for the recapitalisation of banks based in non-euro area member states are aimed at strengthening large banking monopoly groups, greater concentration and centralisation of financial capital, within the framework of the european banking union and the eu's pursuit of controlled capital relief. the working class and the popular strata will face the increasing aggression of ever more powerful monopoly corporations, whose oppressive domination of all sectors of the economy will steadily and more intensely worsen the position of the working people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the facilitation, improvement and development of international rail transport services is important for strengthening the single market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2011. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and on the basis of the information provided by the court of auditors, i have found that the agency's budget is being managed and used in a satisfactory manner. the commission nevertheless expressed its disappointment at the high volume of eurojust transfers, which was again described in the court of auditors' report this year as 'excessive', as it was last year. however, the acceptance of the court of auditors' comment and the commitment of the agency to take measures to improve the financial forecasts and the implementation of the budget is considered positive. in the same context, it was requested to resolve the shortcomings in the absence of certain implementing rules in the staff regulations and in the recruitment procedures, which were included in the report on the subject, which was voted on today by the european parliament's plenary.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to complete the update of eu vat rules and ensure the uniform tax treatment of all types of vouchers in all member states. this will have a positive impact on businesses as it will eliminate double taxation and uncertainty about tax compliance. in addition, the gaps in legislation which facilitate tax avoidance by certain undertakings exploiting the disparities between member states will be addressed. the new rules are also in line with the broader strategy of the 'digital agenda for europe', in particular with regard to its objective of creating a digital single market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2011. the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i have drawn up, states that the annual accounts of the european police office (europol) give a very accurate picture. however, there are high levels of carry-overs of administrative expenditure appropriations, which europol attributes to the delayed move to its new premises and to efforts made to better comply with the principle of annuality, as well as to actions to improve its planning and budgeting process. in the same context, the opinion calls on the court of auditors to pay greater attention to the audit of europol's sound financial management, in particular the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which europol uses its appropriations to meet its obligations.
in writing. the budgetary control of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) is of particular importance for greece given the important contribution of frontex to the effort to tackle illegal migration flows. as rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and on the basis of the information provided by the court of auditors, i have noted the satisfactory implementation of the agency's budget and the successful implementation of the first operation of the rapid response team at the borders of our country. however, since frontex is an operational agency and the execution of its budgetary planning is heavily dependent on external factors, for example because it has to react to exceptional developments, it is necessary to allocate additional funds to the agency in a timely manner, which was included in the report on this subject, which i supported.
in writing. − the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance of 23 november 2007 is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides for a mechanism under which child support obligations can be applied for and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. i voted in favour of this report so that certain changes to the annexes can be approved in a quick manner, so that they can enter into force in regard to the european union as soon as possible.
mr president, i congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her report, which is careful and well-informed. i think it could be voted without amendments and i think it is a successful follow-up to its previous reports on the subject, as the part does not explicitly mention changes for the better. despite turkey's relative progress in meeting the economic criteria, it appears that serious reservations remain as regards the fulfilment of the political criteria. the turkish policy on good neighbourly relations continues to fall short of the casus belli against greece and at the same time violates the principles of the ankara protocol which create obligations for turkey in relation to cyprus. the turkish government's efforts to reform the judiciary, the legal system, respect for human rights and religious freedom must be continued. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the report also highlights positive elements, such as those relating to the kurdish issue and democratic reforms and turkey's role in the syrian problem.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that there is progress and mobility, but turkey is not yet a european country. the problem is that, on a political level, while there is progress in other areas, turkey still refuses to accept the ankara protocol, to maintain occupation troops in cyprus, to have not recognized the united nations convention on the law of the sea, to not accept the hague tribunal. so the question is: the progress made in relation to the old regime - the kemalists if we may so speak - is reflected in external relations? the reality is no. there is no real mobility in its external relations, and i say this as the representative of a country which wants turkey to be a member of the european union. what can the european union do? it cannot trade with a country that says it does not recognize it as a whole. we have seen what has happened in the cyprus presidency. we cannot pretend to be ignorant and naive and expect these to be corrected in time. these are only repaired under real pressure.
mr president, once again we are discussing the progress report on turkey and once again we are stressing turkey's important role in the security and prosperity of the union. we stress the enormous potential for economic development and the essential role it can play in the union's energy supply. the country aspires to play a central mediating role in the conflicts in its southern neighbourhood. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's airspace is not encroached upon by the air forces of the member states. this is a daily practice in turkey and the daily life of the inhabitants of the greek islands. the country itself does not seem to be able to provide its citizens with the protection of free expression and the protection of fundamental human rights. the european parliament, in this year's resolution, is once again asking for the obvious, namely respect for human rights, protection of minorities, improvement of bilateral relations with its neighbours. turkey has no more excuses.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, it is a fact that the case for the accession of montenegro is one of the easy cases of enlargement by the balkan countries. but there are too many questions about whether this whole process is aimed at the well-being of the citizens. the eu has also made progress in the area of the protection of the environment, and the eu has also made progress in the area of the protection of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the situation of the montenegrin people and their daily lives are not improving. unemployment is rising steadily according to official figures. there is unemployment, there is poverty, there is poverty and there are social problems. the measures taken, supposedly to address these issues, are: uncontrolled foreign investment that has turned montenegro into one of the most important countries for money laundering. secondly, investments and privatizations involving the selling off of public wealth. thirdly, investments which are destructive to the environment, which is a comparative advantage for mild tourist development. the economic criteria proposed to deal with this situation and those requested are in the same direction. we must know that this path which gave some hope to the peoples of the balkans has been denied because of the economic crisis in the european union and these peoples no longer see this vision as so attractive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kacin, and express our satisfaction with his very positive report. i would also like to confirm our full support for the european perspective of serbia and the entire western balkans. serbia is a key country in its region which has made significant progress in a very short period of time and has demonstrated in practice its willingness to join the european family. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. in fact, a few months ago, it was unthinkable to think of a meeting between the serbian and kosovar prime ministers. and yet these meetings took place, multiplied and reached the level of presidents of the republic. the previous round of talks has indeed raised great expectations and it seems that the two sides have come very close to what could be a historic compromise. unfortunately, expectations were not met, perhaps because the stifling schedule was a major constraint at the time. today's meeting is a source of renewed hope that the solution is not far off. we therefore congratulate the commission on its decision to postpone its final conclusion on serbia's readiness for accession negotiations. as a group, we believe in a viable and acceptable solution. we believe that this is possible, as is a decision to open negotiations in july. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. kosovo is not the only challenge for serbia. even if it gets the date for the start, belgrade must not forget that the road is long and difficult. as the report we are adopting tomorrow states, the country needs to step up its reform efforts, fight corruption and organised crime, and make social and economic adjustments to enable it to cope with the general crisis, improve the living standards of its citizens and successfully meet its future obligations within the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur again and thank everyone, both him and the shadowy ones, for their excellent cooperation.
on behalf of the efd group. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. it is a fact that economic and political conditions make the enlargement process painful, both for those members of the european union who will have to bear the costs and for those countries wishing to join the union in a period of lean cows. the serbian authorities have maintained a firm grip on the european path of their country, keeping their commitments and promises despite the difficult political and economic situation. today in brussels, mrs ashton called for a meeting between the serbian delegation and the political leadership of kosovo for a new round of negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the continuation of the belgrade-pristina dialogue and the implementation of the agreements are vital. i would point out that serbia is the only country on the european continent which has been, for better or worse, a site of unnecessary military conflict and balkan nationalism. we must show our understanding and support.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the western balkans are the scene of fierce confrontations between imperialists for geostrategic positions and influence. the process of serbia's accession is the other side and continuation of the criminal war waged by nato, the united states and the european union, and the dismemberment of yugoslavia. it also serves the permanent presence of nato and european union military occupation forces in the region. the eu accession process of serbia is being used by the eu mechanisms, the bourgeois governments of serbia and various imperialist centres such as the usa to make the serbian people accept all imperialist claims in the wider region of the western balkans, the further dismemberment of serbia with the final secession of kosovo. this was clearly demonstrated by the process of the 'negotiations' - with the mediation of the european union - of serbia with the status of the kosovo protectorate, which was carried out literally with a gun to the head, with the crude blackmail of serbia to recognize the euro-nato protectorate, in order to get the date for the start of accession negotiations. the accession of serbia to the european union will only add to the suffering of the serbian people. it is in the interest of the peoples of the region to avoid the european union.
mr president, the report once again attempts to legitimize the results of the imperialist war of nato and the european union against yugoslavia, the secession of kosovo from serbia and the creation of a wretched eurasian protectorate at the expense of both the people of kosovo and the serbian people and the peoples of the whole region. the imperialist power that controls kosovo hopes to control all the balkans. the report and the feasibility study call for the acceleration of capitalist restructuring and reforms to facilitate the european union's monopoly groups. the reforms in the political system are aimed at facilitating these processes while in return only visas and capitalist crisis are offered. at the same time, through eulex, it is establishing a protectorate in all areas of the political structure: police, justice, etc. the serbs in kosovo are being burned because they do not accept this regime and are threatened by those who changed the borders in the balkans by war. the people of the balkans have no benefit from membership. their interests are in conflict and in rupture with the imperialist european union.
madam president, it is very clear from all colleagues why the multiannual plans are blocked in the council. they are blocked because member states want to set tacs as they wish, ones higher than the scientific advice. and of course the excuse is the interpretation of the treaties. this, i must say to the minister, is just an excuse. what would happen if parliament found procedural reasons to delay and block legislative reports? what would happen if parliament found procedural reasons not to take a position, not to take a stance on legislative reports? parliament does not do that for the simple reason that it would be against democracy, it would be against europe. so i call upon the council to act according to legislation, according to democracy; to take a stance, to discuss, to disagree with us if it wishes, to disagree with the commission, but to take a stance. tell us your opinion of the multiannual plans. it is your democratic responsibility.
madam president, i would like to add to what has been said, after having made a thorough search of the official website of the commission, the 'metro', which is very useful - and i congratulate the commission on this - because it is where you can find very good initiatives and very good ideas. it is not a lot, but it is important and it shows that the european people want to take europe into their own hands. the commission's proposals, if studied, are often more advanced and innovative than those of the commission and the member states. this allows us to be optimistic. although there are not many proposals, it is clear that, following the lisbon treaty, which now establishes the principle of accountability, in this critical period, when everything is being called into question throughout the european union at social, economic and political level, this effort can bear fruit. of course, it is not enough to take care of its media visibility. it is very important, as mr cofferati said earlier, that some of these proposals be adopted, so that we can show that we are indeed accountable to the european citizens. we still have a lot to do. but let us be optimistic.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 115 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 18 april, at 11.30 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 10.50 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement because it is an important step towards the establishment of a visa-free regime between ukraine and the european union, which is supported by the european parliament. the agreement also sends a clear message to the citizens of ukraine that the eu is strongly committed to strengthening its partnership with ukrainian society and further developing and facilitating contacts between peoples, in line with the renewed european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation because the future introduction of a short-term visa-free travel regime for moldovan citizens travelling to eu countries will broaden cooperation with the eu and pave the way for a closer relationship with the european union. in view of the european aspirations of the republic of moldova, this agreement, as amended, constitutes an encouraging step forward and will promote people-to-people contacts, economic development, cultural and scientific dialogue, stability, security and the well-being of citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs baintere's report because i believe that in times of economic crisis we must be particularly careful about the protection of human rights. governments must respect, promote and fulfil human rights, including economic and social rights, at all times, and special care must be taken to protect the most vulnerable sections of the population, who must be at the centre of political action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal because it recognises that demographic challenges are growing and playing an increasingly important role in the development of the eu. only if relevant statistics are available can meaningful comparisons be made, conclusions drawn and options for action developed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. croatia has made significant progress in meeting the copenhagen criteria and has been given the green light by the commission, the council and the european parliament (december 2011) to join the eu. croatia is expected to become the 28th member of the eu on 1 july 2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr katzin's report. greece is in favour of the accession of the western balkan countries to the eu as soon as they meet the copenhagen criteria. serbia has shown that it has made significant progress in recent years by underlining its commitment to eu membership. i hope that the high-level kosovo-serbian dialogue taking place today in brussels will bring the desired results in finding a viable solution for both sides.
in writing. it is crucial that the development of renewable sources in the eu's internal energy market is done in a way that does not pose the slightest risk to food security, sustainable production of high quality food or the competitiveness of the agricultural sector. it is also important to promote the use of alternative energy sources - especially those requiring small-scale infrastructure - within farms, and to inform both farmers and consumers. the successful promotion of renewable energy sources can only be achieved through the contribution and cooperation of farmers.
commissioner, i would like to say a lot, but i will try to be brief and succinct. as you will remember, three years ago, when we were discussing the programme on resettlement from third countries, i had tabled a proposal as rapporteur for the european people's party, which had been co-signed by colleagues from other political groups, to include internal resettlement in that proposal. you told me then, from the podium of the house, that the commission would come back with a specific proposal on relocation and that for technical reasons the proposal should not have been included in the debate at the time. when the matter was then raised again, many member states expressed their opposition to the council. we have a new delegation and we say that, since this problem exists, we cannot find an answer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is hypocritical because, when we are talking about the 'asylum package', we ourselves are seeing the need for more solidarity and for mechanisms to support that solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we say this all the time, but we don't see it in action. we have a good practice - eurema - in malta; we have seen what the loopholes are in the process; we know how to improve it. the commissioner, it is very important that you have announced this forum, but please do not hesitate to finally put forward the proposal on internal resettlement in the european union. it is certainly a matter for the south, but it is also a matter for the north. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. it is a matter of the future of the european union and is provided for in the new financial framework. it is also up to you to put forward this proposal, which is crucial for all of us.
madam president, the anti-people policy of the european union and of the bourgeois governments in its member states is being promoted with priority the abolition of sectoral collective agreements, with sweeping changes in social security, with mass unemployment, poverty for the workers and an increase in authoritarianism, state repression and violence, with the criminalisation of workers' and people's struggles. the anti-people policy of the european union is fuelling racism and xenophobia, and is blowing up the sails of fascist-nazi figures. in greece, the three-party nd-pasok-dimar government has put the right to strike under pressure. after the political recruitment of the shipbuilders, the subway workers, the public transport workers, the government recruited the teachers of the secondary education. 98% of strikes are declared illegal by the courts. the same attack is being launched by bourgeois governments in all the member states of the european union, with a typical example in spain, where dozens of leading activists, members and officials of the communist people's party of spain, face, like strikers in france, portugal and other countries of the european union, prison sentences and exorbitant fines for participating in demonstrations and strike mobilizations. in greece, shipowners will drag kke officials and pame union seafarers to court on may 22, 2013, demanding millions of euros in damages for defending the rights of seafarers through strike actions. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, at a time when there is a huge accumulation of wealth and the needs of workers are constantly increasing, monopolies, the european union and bourgeois governments are intensifying their exploitation to an incredible extent. in all eu countries, the abolition of national general sectoral collective agreements and the 2012 commission white paper on pensions are being promoted, which provides for an increase in the retirement age, a blow to the public nature of insurance systems, the conversion of pensions into welfare benefits, the shifting of the insurance burdens of the state and monopoly groups on the backs of insured persons, the exploitation of insurance as a new golden profit field. in greece, a basic pension of eur 360 is introduced as of 1 january 2015, which does not correspond to a poorhouse allowance. and even this humiliating aid the government can reduce. to save the public social security, the working class and the poor layers of the people must side with the communist party and the workers' and people's movement against the european union and the capitalist system. for a mandatory universal social security with contributions, borne by the state and the capitalists, decent pensions, free high-quality health, care and welfare services.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank our rapporteur for having accepted the amendments of most of us during the drafting of the final text and for having been a model of cooperation throughout this period. i would like to make a special reference to article 6 of the directive, which prohibits incitement to hatred on grounds of race, sex, religion or nationality. i am referring specifically to this, mr president, because we are all living through a period in which extreme rhetoric is finding fertile ground in many member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this into account in his report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, jens geier, on his excellent report, which focuses on the main challenges of the structural transformation processes in the eu's former industrial regions and the role that cohesion policy can play in this context. i agree that there should be a comprehensive strategy for the revitalisation of former industrial regions, combining the resources of the structural funds with the new industrial policy of the eu, and that european public funding can make a decisive contribution to any future efforts to this end. integrated territorial investments and new mechanisms for the implementation of cohesion policy in the new 2014-2020 programming period are also expected to play a key role. the industrial sector has always been the eu's driving force for job creation, growth and innovation in its regions. in the context of the current crisis, it has become clear that the ambitions of the eu industrial policy and the eu 2020 strategy cannot be achieved by the various sectoral policies alone. the support from cohesion policy is therefore necessary and vital.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this is undoubtedly a positive development, provided that we do not once again stop at words and declarations of good intentions but proceed to concrete and binding decisions, ensuring the greatest possible synergy and efficiency at national, european and international level. the outflow of large deposits from dubious sources of income, money laundering, tax havens, aggressive taxation - these are all huge problems that cannot be tackled at national level alone - coordination and synergy are needed at european and international level. in my country, ladies and gentlemen, which has been implementing a very strict budgetary adjustment programme for three years now - as in other countries affected by the crisis, with huge unemployment rates and a drastic reduction in incomes, especially of the taxpayers - tackling tax evasion is the key to successfully overcoming the crisis. in fact, commissioner, i would add that the adjustment programmes would have a much greater social acceptance if the troika had given the fight against tax evasion in the various countries the highest priority, with specific and binding targets, rather than horizontal cuts in wages and pensions. ladies and gentlemen, the spread of euroscepticism, anti-parliamentarism, anti-establishment figures and parties is also linked to the widening sense of frustration and injustice among large sections of citizens, including conscientious taxpayers. the sustainability of the european project depends on regaining the confidence of citizens; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that you will take this message to the heads of state or government tomorrow.
question of the day: blue card. in your speech to commissioner šemeta on taxation, you mentioned the financial transaction tax and urged him not to implement it because it would encourage tax evasion and tax avoidance, as you said. the question i would like to ask you is this: as we are discussing today the enormous losses of one trillion dollars suffered by tax evasion and avoidance in the budgets of the member states of the european union, do you not think it is time to introduce measures of fiscal justice which will shift the burden from the productive economy and from employment to those sectors which are undertaxed and which are called upon to contribute equitably to the response to the crisis?
the european council will be dealing with two very important issues tomorrow, mr president. the first concerns energy and, in particular, the internal energy market, the existence of proposals for new energy sources and the very high energy prices which affect production in europe and therefore its competitiveness. the second issue concerns tax evasion and fraud. it is a fact, mr president, that the citizens of europe cannot bear to see people and companies who, by moving their capital from one country to another, a practice which is freely permitted, are committing tax evasion and tax avoidance at the same time, and this at a time of crisis in which, unfortunately, the multiannual financial framework has not yet been agreed. mr president, there must be some kind of coordination in europe in tax matters, but this does not mean that all countries can have exactly the same taxation, since they do not have exactly the same development. at the same time, this issue must be raised at the g20. there are many in europe who fear that this will lead to capital flight. we're going through a very difficult time. the message that the european commission must certainly send to all countries is that there is no tax evasion, no tax fraud, no tax relief. everyone has to pay their taxes. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. we must take into account the political climate; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we must not allow parliament to become a eurosceptic body, which would undermine the course of europe.
mr president, we are tabled, together with mrs podimatou of the socialist and democratic group, an amendment to recital i. the amendment concerns the deletion of the last paragraph concerning greece, according to which the commission estimated that, since the beginning of 2012, some eur 60 billion had been transferred from the country to swiss banks. it is not a statement by the commission, the content is not correct and the rapporteur has agreed to delete this paragraph, for which we thank her very much, since such inaccuracy cannot be contained in the report we are voting on today. i am very grateful to you and i ask you to accept this amendment.
in writing. the european university institute (eui) in florence is entering its 30th year of operation. the commission's contribution as a source of information on the history and heritage of the european union has undoubtedly been important throughout this period. the need to change the way it operates is due to the fact that it has been given even more responsibilities in the field of cultural content, which, however, do not affect its basic function as defined by regulation (eec, euratom) no 354/83. the present report, which i voted in favour of, focuses on the institute's better cooperation with the eu institutions in order to enable a way of exchanging files which respects personal data but is also based on new technologies and their digitisation. at the same time, increased funding is being provided in the next budget precisely to achieve the digitisation of the archives and thus to make them more easily accessible to eu citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report given that, in most member states, the dates on which the elections would ordinarily have been held would have coincided with the whitsun bank holiday weekend. taking into account the council’s view that it would be preferable to bring them forward, i agree that the proposed electoral period should run between thursday 22 and sunday 25 may 2014.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it identifies that the european union’s industrial sector has always been a driving force in creating jobs, growth and promoting innovation in all regions of the european union, and it is crucial that this be promoted at a regional level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report by jens geier on regional strategies for industrial zones in the eu. it is an indisputable fact that the industrial sector has always been the driving force of the eu, helping to create jobs, growth and promote innovation in its regions. the financial crisis that the eu has been experiencing in recent years has demonstrated in the most striking way that the ambitions of the eu industrial policy and the eu 2020 strategy cannot be achieved by sectoral policies alone. the support from cohesion policy is therefore necessary and vital. in this context, there should be a comprehensive strategy for the revitalisation of former industrial regions, combining resources from the structural funds with the new eu industrial policy, as european public funding can make a decisive contribution to any future efforts to this end. integrated territorial investments and new mechanisms for the implementation of cohesion policy in the new 2014-2020 programming period are also expected to play a key role.
mr president, both i and the new democracy members of the european parliament have consistently and systematically supported the protection of women's rights, the fight against discrimination and the implementation of strategies, through various mechanisms and resources, to promote women in the labour market and in public life in our neighbouring countries and in the countries in the process of accession. we have voted against the cornelissen report because we believe that a european parliament resolution must respect the official terminology and, in particular, the official names of countries and must not cause confusion. the cornelissen report mentions the terms 'macedonian parliament', 'macedonian government', 'macedonian authorities' instead of the terms 'parliament, government, authorities of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia'. mr president, respect for the law and respect for the principles on which the agreements governing relations between two countries are based must be respected by these countries and, even more so, by the european parliament, in order to avoid problems being created by countries which ignore reality and history, such as the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. gender equality is a community acquis and mainstreaming gender in the eu's external relations is a thematic priority of the european commission's strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015. gender equality is a fundamental human right and a key objective of any modern democratic country. we support the accession process of the countries of south-east europe and consider that safeguarding the rights of the female population of these countries is a necessary condition for them to gain membership of the european union. i voted against the report on women's rights in the balkan countries in the process of accession because, in the part of the report referring to macedonia, the adjective macedonian is repeated in order to identify the government, the authorities and the parliament of that country. this use is contrary to the un resolution and the official texts of the european commission and seriously interferes with the transnational dialogue that has been taking place for years between a member state and a candidate country for eu membership on the name of fyrom, under the auspices of the united nations.
in writing. in recent years, the crisis has forced dozens of media outlets, mainly print and regional, to suspend their operations. the social cost is, of course, enormous because of the jobs lost. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the member states and to provide information on the situation in the community. the eu has the power to adopt legislative measures to guarantee, protect and promote freedom of expression and media pluralism. in order to ensure that regional and local media, both printed and non-printed, remain viable and able to cope with the current economic difficulties, their funding channels should be supported. this is foreseen and to some extent already met by programmes such as media but the support effort needs to be further strengthened. i voted in favour of this report because it takes account of this need and because it proposes that more resources be mobilised in this direction in the new multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it can be said that freedom of expression in the public sphere has been shown to be formative of democracy and the rule of law itself, and coaxial to its existence and survival. free and independent media and free exchange of information have a decisive role in the democratic transformations taking place in non-democratic regimes, and the commission should be requested to undertake the close monitoring of media freedom and pluralism in accession countries and to pay sufficient attention to the role of free media in the promotion of democracy throughout the world.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the european agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions for both young and old which is presented in the white paper is an excellent starting point for discussion, after which reforms can be implemented by means of ‘soft law’, and also by means of legislation where necessary. overall, while recognising and preserving the responsibilities of member states and social partners, we now need to build up systems which are adequate, secure and durable. not only that, but they must also contribute to greater labour-market mobility and freedom of movement, systems which provide solutions for today and tomorrow.
commissioner, when you announced a year ago, in june 2012, the plan for a banking union with its three pillars, the single supervisory mechanism, the european clearing house and a european deposit guarantee scheme, many of us in the european parliament welcomed your initiative with great enthusiasm, because it finally laid the foundations for the implementation of a key structural element that is missing from today's economic and monetary union, which is clearly lacking. we have also welcomed with equal enthusiasm the decisions of the summit last june, because it was one of the few occasions when the council sent a message of determination and coherence, halting the worsening crisis in spain and italy. but while we took a big step forward, defending the interests of europe, we then took steps backwards, because national priorities and national logic once again prevailed. the agreement on the single supervisory mechanism is very important, commissioner, but we must not forget that our aim was to have this mechanism already in place. we cannot operate as if we had a decade to finish what we started. i wonder if what happened in cyprus is not enough to make us realise that the emu cannot continue to be so weak in managing banking crises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have not understood that even the correct principle of bailing out the banks, the principle of bail-in, which we voted for yesterday in the committee on economic and monetary affairs in the context of the hökmark report, must, if it is to be effective, be applied everywhere in the context of a functioning banking union and not piecemeal and flattening out, as was done in the case of cyprus, increasing the risks of destabilisation rather than reducing them?
mr president, it is a mockery of the peoples that the banking union will bring about regulation and control of the financial market, parasitism and speculation of the banks. the european banking union which is being established is a mechanism for greater concentration and concentration of banking capital with the aim of financing and strengthening monopoly groups and the controlled destruction of capital. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the european parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission will be consulted on the matter, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we have experience of the dramatic consequences for the peoples of ireland, spain, greece and cyprus. the present compromise on banking union will also prove fatal before the ink of its signature has even dried, because capitalism is not regulated, because it has its own iron economic laws of profit - uneven growth. no banking union, no measure of so-called 'market regulation' can prevent capitalist crises of over-accumulation of capital. capitalism is rotting in its deepest contradictions and suffers, first and foremost, from its basic contradiction between labour and capital.
the banking union is the new european objective, mr president, it is a fundamental plan for stability, consolidation, confidence and security for investors and depositors. a project that we could not have imagined a few years ago is now at our doorstep. it requires the will and determination of the institutions and of all the member states and imposes equal obligations and rights. this will make our banking union safe and attractive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the banking union testifies to that. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work and their commitment to the european parliament's values of efficiency, integration, transparency and democracy in the mechanisms that will operate within the framework of the banking union. the chaos and insecurity we faced in the cyprus crisis would not have been there, and it is enough to help us realise the importance of the union. the operation of the first pillar supervisory mechanism already makes clear the difficulty of the project, both politically and technically, in relation to the procedural aspects of the role of the european central bank and the supervisory authorities. the functioning of this system is of fundamental importance. it is a difficult task which we must succeed in in order to then move on to the next stages, such as the single resolution mechanism for failing banks and the common deposit guarantee scheme. i would like to congratulate commissioner barnier on the speed with which he has taken action in tabled ing the proposal and its implementation from 2015. the longer we delay, the more vulnerable we make the weak banks, the more likely it is that the burden on public finances we want to avoid will be greater, and the more insecure the financial system will become - a delay that is unprecedented today.
the commission is aware that the banking system in most member states of the union is suffering from a number of problems. many banks need to be recapitalised to avoid bankruptcy and the loss of european citizens' deposits. to a large extent, the banks' losses and their precarious claims are not due to the classic, pure banking products, but to the fact that the banks were exposed to toxic products that are creations of casino banking. but banks are not casinos. they are almost exclusively managing the people's savings and they must manage them prudently. the european depositor must above all feel secure. but i am afraid that many european banks need support now and will need it in the future, according to the new theory that the risks created by the well-paid 'golden boys' of the banks must be paid for by the depositors, who are not to blame for anything. i therefore call on you, commissioner, to work with the european central bank and the european banking authority to solve the problem and to introduce new rules.
mr president, the question whether, after the stockholm programme, we need a new programme at this stage is, i think, clear. the stockholm programme was and remains ambitious; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i would like to say that i agree with what the council and the commission have said, but i would of course like to stress that, particularly as regards the position of the honourable minister, it is not enough to say that the ministers have shown satisfaction and that they expect more in the future, because criticism of what has not been done, criticism of delays, of the way in which what has been done has been implemented and of the decisions we take at european level is also of great importance. there is no doubt that important legislation has been advanced and completed, as there is no doubt that the current situation, the functioning of the institutions in relation to each other and in relation to 2008 is now much improved. the lisbon treaty is changing the framework for all of us and we are still adapting to these changes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. it is not certain that everyone has understood the absolute need to agree in the next period on the common challenges we face at european level and it is not certain that the commission and the council and of course the european parliament agree on this. a balanced approach to all issues is crucial. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data it collects is not used for other purposes. the asylum package for migrants and asylum seekers must protect their rights, but it must also combat illegal immigration. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. this is precisely the feeling of european citizens that underpins the rise of extremism in many member states, even those not as badly affected by the crisis. this is another major challenge to security and freedom that we need to address. the minister referred to the solidarity clause. the clause is mentioned all the time - it was mentioned yesterday in the relevant debate on the internal resettlement programme. in many respects, however, this clause remains merely theoretical. we have not taken any action. ladies and gentlemen, 2013 has been designated as the 'european year of the citizens of the european union'. it is up to us to put the citizen at the centre of our actions and in the area of security, freedom and justice.
mr president, in the previous debate on the implementation of the stockholm programme, the question of revising the regulation on access to documents was raised. we all agreed that we were behind on this and that we should move on. it is indeed a democratic obligation under the lisbon treaty, as has already been said, to facilitate public access to documents of the european institutions. it is also a matter of democratic accountability, and no one is denying that. it is equally clear that it cannot be done at the expense of the public interest, much less at the expense of public life and personal data. i agree with commissioner borg's position today. human rights cannot be put on the scales. we cannot accept the sacrifice of some of these rights for the benefit of others. in short, is the public interest in the matter fully compensated by the need to make all documents public? is the need for transparency offset by the exposure to the public of citizens' personal data, particularly if they are minors? obviously, it is not always easy to maintain this balance. the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs are well aware of this. the path to date has not been easy at all - there have been many disputes, there have been many frictions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, following the progress of the negotiations, i note a relative lack of provision for entry in the register of sensitive documents and i would like, on the occasion of today's debate and the presence of the commissioner, to ask and receive an answer, if that is possible. why, commissioner, are some documents not even registered in the register, whether access is granted or not?
madam president, economic and monetary union, a policy which is profoundly anti-people and hostile to the interests of the working class and the popular strata, as indeed is the whole structure of the european union, is the spearhead for strengthening the european union's monopoly groups and their profitability. the so-called 'social pillar' of emu is nonexistent because it is incompatible with the nature and character of the european union. the right of workers to work has been transformed into the right to underemployment. collective agreements are being struck down, social security is being levelled, wages and pensions are wages and hunger pensions, the unemployed are 27 million, those living below the poverty line are 120 million, the poverty of the peoples in the member states of the european union is absolute. the plans and proposals for deepening emu have nothing whatsoever to do with the popular interests; the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. the ideas that the european union would ensure the welfare of the people, that there could be an emu with a different, supposedly 'more social' architecture, that the european union could be transformed from an alliance of capital into a 'european union of the peoples' have been shown to be blatant lies - a deception of the peoples.
mr salafranca, i would like to inform you that, under the rules of procedure, your political group must now send a written request to the president of parliament to make an announcement at 3 p.m. today so that the vote can take place tomorrow, thursday 23 may 2013.
the next item on the agenda is voting time. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes)
the time for voting is over.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you can sign up for the process.
you are right, mr posselt, there was only the explanation of vote on mrs kleva kekuš's report left over from yesterday's vote. we have not had time to finish, and that is why we are starting today with the report by mrs kleva kekuš.
in writing. in a recent reply, the commission informed me that europe loses an amount of one trillion euros a year due to tax fraud and tax evasion. the problem of tax evasion concerns all member states but, because of the economic crisis, it is particularly urgent to tackle it in the member states with the greatest fiscal problems, such as greece. but in addition to the obvious reforms needed at national level, the dizzying and largely contradictory tax system applied by each of the 27 eu member states is hampering the effort to crack down on tax fraud. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. the proposals for increased coordination of tax policies are certainly moving in the right direction. but their implementation also requires greater determination and consensus in the member states, on which we hope to see significant progress at the next summit when the issue will be discussed by the heads of state. the recent proposal by the president of the european commission to exchange data and information between member states to combat fraud is also aimed at this.
in writing. − i voted in favour. an estimated eur 1 trillion in public money is lost due to tax fraud and tax avoidance every year in the eu. the size of this alarming tax gap represents a rough yearly cost of eur 2 000 for every european citizen. the average amount of tax lost in europe today exceeds the total amount that member states spend on healthcare, and it amounts to more than four times the amount spent on education in the eu. tax fraud and tax avoidance, therefore, represent a serious, multifaceted problem, requiring a coordinated approach at national, eu and international level. with member states holding competency over their fiscal systems, action at national level is important. therefore, all focus should be directed towards establishing a cohesive, concrete and common european tax strategy, embraced and implemented by all member states.
in writing. this initiative is part of a package of legislative measures to strengthen the rights of victims in the eu and in particular to support victims of crime. the report, which i voted in favour of, highlights a number of important new measures in this direction, such as simplifying the procedure for recognising protection orders, addressing the situation of victims of gender-based violence and the right of access to information and translation. the report is part of the overall effort to create an area of security, peace and justice in europe, which was intensified with the adoption of the stockholm programme for 2010-14, but which requires even greater commitment from the member states to fully implement it.
in writing. the recast directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the placing on the market of fireworks aims to bring nine older directives into line with the new legislative framework. this alignment will not only clarify the obligations of undertakings and provide the supervisory authorities of the member states with more effective means of controlling the market, but will also lead to a reduction in the supply of unsafe products and to a reduction in red tape and a general increase in consumer protection. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report, which is also urgent in that it contains, among other things, important provisions on the manufacture of airbags and safety belts, provisions which, in order to continue the smooth functioning of the market, must be implemented by the member states before 4 july 2013.
question by mr sargentini - the mr president, the honourable member has mentioned that greece refuses to help syrian refugees. the figures i have show that the number of syrian refugees in greece has increased by 60% in the last six months and that the greek authorities are doing everything they can to help the syrian refugees. where did the honourable member get her information and refer to greece?
mr president, the civil war in syria is exporting instability both geopolitical and humanitarian. millions are refugees both at home and abroad. the syrian issue bodes ill for the future, especially for the christians in the region, who are suffering. the european parliament has already expressed its support for the efforts of the european union to bring about a peaceful solution to the conflict in the middle east. greece and other neighbouring countries are facing a huge increase in syrian refugees, and any conflicting information regarding greece is unfounded. the humanitarian cost of the conflict is immense and incalculable as the extremes intensify. frankly, i'm troubled and i wonder what kind of democracy we're talking about when i see slaughter and heart-mining and cannibalism imitated. these are terrible acts which must be condemned. we must look at how we can help syria to put an end to this massacre that is taking place there.
the commissioner, mr president, has already said that the situation of the syrian refugees is one of suffering and misery. the number of internally displaced persons has reached 4.3 million and the number of refugees 1.5 million, and the trend is increasing with the escalation of violence and israeli bombings. these numbers are no longer manageable by any neighbouring state, however willing to help. of the surrounding countries, jordan is the most organized, with refugee camps and the advantage that aid can reach them more easily, while in lebanon, refugees are trying to find shelter in urban areas. conditions for them are tragic because most of the time they cannot even feed themselves. providing aid is difficult as they are not officially registered as refugees so that they can be provided with food and clothing. the resilience of the syrians themselves is constantly diminishing, with the result that they are unable to help those in need inside their own country. the mass rape of women and children is also a harsh reality. we must do the impossible, and above all, we must strengthen the protection of civilians and humanitarian workers. the solution to the tragedy must be found in a political way and all sides must be forced to sit down at the negotiating table.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the report calls for the inclusion of yet another distressed country in the european union's hell, which will intensify the exploitation of workers to ensure the profitability of monopolies and the geostrategic and energy interests of the european union. it also calls for the acceleration of capitalist restructuring to heal the many wounds caused by the war waged by nato, the european union and the united states against the yugoslav people and the imperialist peace that followed. it is a challenge to make recommendations on ethnic divisions, corruption, unemployment, extreme poverty, the thousands of refugees, those who created them, the european union and its political staff. it is too late to show the european union that has divided yugoslavia and redrawn the borders in the region with the blood of its peoples, the european union that has reinforced national hatred and divisions, that has created two miserable protectorates, bosnia and kosovo, that has kept nato, euro-army and eulex troops in bosnia for 20 years. the people of bosnia, mr president, need not membership of the european union but the immediate withdrawal of the european union's occupation troops so that the people can freely decide their future.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i will disappoint mr howitt because i believe that his report contains inaccurate information and does not reflect the real situation in fyrom. the remarks made by both mr howitt and mr füle in the development of their views before you overturn the report. the whole method of postponing the vote on the report in order, with the intervention of mr howitt and mr füle, to resolve the problem of the undemocratic period from 24 december to march, shows that, both in substance and in methodology, the report hides the problems under the carpet. further efforts by the government of the fyrom are needed to meet the criteria. the opening of negotiations is not only up to the neighbouring countries, such as greece and bulgaria, but mainly up to the government of that country itself, which must achieve a reduction in nationalism and provocative acts and statements in an attempt to find an agreement in the spirit of good neighbourliness. in the end, despite its intentions, the report does not help anyone and does not solve any problems, because only the truth solves problems. i believe that the report reflects mr howitt's truth - his subjective truth, and i will reply to him with a pirandello quote: 'it is what it is if you think it is'. but it's not like that!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i have three comments on the report on fyrom. first remark: the report still regards the name issue as a bilateral problem. the problem is international and is being resolved within the un. the government of the fyrom must therefore avoid practices that aggravate the problem and must help to address it, which is a prerequisite for the accession procedures because it serves the principle of good neighbourliness. second remark: the report does not capture with the necessary rigor the political events and the political situation, namely the events of december 2012. the political forces of the fyrom must, however, take important steps towards democracy and the proper functioning of the state. thirdly, the report does not address the causes of the major economic and social problems - the huge unemployment, especially among young people and women - nor does it analyse the problem, since the policies which have led to these results are compulsory because of the neoliberal orientations of the european union, which can only exacerbate the problems.
mr president, we have heard the presidency, the commissioner and the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is still an excessive tendency to make current policy outdated and there is still an obsession with situations which are not true and which could create tensions in the future. the name case didn't arise because someone owns a name. it arose because the name, together with the identity and language, is the basis for a continuous propaganda campaign against the neighbouring countries, whether it is through provocative maps, the choice of the title of the ruling party which speaks for the liberation of macedonia, or other actions, huge statues and the alleged decoration of the capital of the country. all of this adds up to one thing, the intensity of the propaganda and the repercussions in the event that the country becomes a member without solving the name problem. it is a criminal attitude on the part of the government of this country, which is trying to accustom the young people of this country to situations which do not really exist and to the obsolescence of the current policy, a policy which should be a policy not only of good neighbourliness and cooperation but of close association.
mr president, the political crisis of last december raises legitimate questions about the state of democracy in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the problems persist despite the political agreement between the parties of 1 march. despite what some may wish, the reality is that the country is not ready to start negotiations with the european union. it's not just the difference with greece that's the problem. the absence of meaningful democracy, the lack of freedom of speech, the poor relations with neighbours and the continuing irredentism, in words and deeds, are some of the very important problems that the country has not solved. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the treaty of rome. the historic agreement between belgrade and pristina proves that solutions to difficult issues can be found if there is good will and common sense. the government in skopje must finally face reality realistically and not miss another opportunity.
question with a blue card. mrs pack, i would first like to remind you that greece was the tenth member of the european union. the union has 27 members. in no case did greece object to enlargement. do you wonder or does this make you wonder what the reason is that greece refuses? secondly, in the twenty years since the founding of the skopje state, seven governments of different political colours have changed in greece. skopje is still ruled by vmro, the nationalist party. you wonder why?
madam president, the 2012 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia highlights the intensified exploitation of workers and resources in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and in the countries of the wider region by the monopoly groups. the report welcomes the unacceptable decision of the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to include its military forces in the european union's occupation forces in bosnia-herzegovina and in the imperialist plans and interventions of the european union. it is a question of the european union acting as a mediator in international disputes on the basis of its own imperialist interests. it is engaged in vulgar anti-communism, essentially calling for the criminalisation of communist ideology and witch-hunts. it gives rise to nationalism, ethnic hatred and fanaticism within the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and with neighbouring countries. the communist party of greece is opposed to the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the european union. the solution to peace and security for the peoples is not to be found in interim agreements manipulated by the imperialist powers of the european union, the united states and nato, nor in consultations within the imperialist organizations and courts. the solution lies in the common anti-monopoly anti-capitalist struggle of the peoples with the non-negotiable right of the peoples to determine their own future. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question with a blue card. the people do not need protectors from any eu state, much less from greece. the people will decide and make their choices. but the situation is particularly worrying and let me recommend that you study paragraphs 12, 16, 17 and 18 very carefully, because the interior of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is being mined - not its borders, its relations with greece and with the other neighbouring countries, but its interior. and you'll see that in the future!
madam president, we all have two objectives here. the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and to the development of the region's economic and social development. but to achieve these two goals, we must not put the cart before the horse! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a completely wrong approach. the past has confirmed this categorically, because when greece agreed to grant skopje candidate status, the government of skopje not only did not adopt a more constructive stance, but on the contrary, it tightened it up. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the schengen acquis. the past shows beyond any doubt that the correct solution is to resolve the name issue first and then to start the accession process, otherwise the issue will remain unresolved for ever. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. i would like to say that we must give the skopje government incentives to adopt a constructive attitude in the negotiating process. but history has shown that there is no incentive to change their position if accession negotiations are opened. i agree with you and i want this country to become a member of the european union, but it cannot be on a shaky foundation that will cause more problems than it can solve. we want them to join but i repeat that if everyone agrees that the name issue must be resolved, the solution must be put before the accession negotiations begin, because mr gruevski has shown that he is not going to take any compromise step.
i have received, pursuant to rule 110 of the rules of procedure, a motion for a resolution. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 may 2013 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the negotiations between the european union and the united states on a trade and investment agreement (2013/2558 ((rsp)).
mr president, we are discussing today the investor-state dispute mechanism, which is the first time the commission has used its right, under ceta, to decide on and agree investment protection agreements. it is the eu’s competence now – and why has this competence been transferred from the member states to the eu? because the member states believe, and citizens believe – in accordance with the lisbon treaty – that the commission and the european union can better guarantee labour rights and other sensitive issues that have proven to be better managed at eu level than in the member states. nevertheless, we now see the commission introducing the form of investor protection which is, according to the commission’s impact assessment, most likely to endanger democracy, labour rights and much of the legislation that this parliament will decide from now on. i will be very brief and ask the commissioner to explain the commitment the commission made in discussions with the environment committee to bring specific solutions to address ceta, the new trade agreement with canada. i would like to raise the issues of treaty-shopping, third-party finance and the protection of the principles of impartiality and transparency which exist in the european courts but not in the isds. how, specifically, are you going to protect and address these three issues?
the tragedy of the collapse of the eight-storey garment factory building in the ranna plaza quarters in bangladesh, which led to the death of over 1,000 workers, is a link in the chain of countless crimes of capitalism against the working class. similar crimes occur daily by the thousands in the capitalist countries, the european union, the usa, japan and elsewhere and are called provocative "work accidents". employer terrorism, work intensification, flexible forms of employment with 12 to 16 hours of work a day during peak production, in hazardous workplace infrastructure, without any controls, in order to maximize the profitability of the monopolies, are the main causes of tragic accidents at work. according to official figures from the international labour organization, one worker dies every three and a half minutes from an occupational accident or disease. the proposals in the joint resolution of the political groups in the european parliament, which calls on capitalists to exercise 'corporate social responsibility', i.e. to 'control' themselves, are aimed at perpetuating the capitalist barbarity of exploiting the working class and are a challenge to the relatives of the victims and the working class as a whole. only organized struggle within the workplaces can impose measures to protect the workers and can overthrow this rotten capitalist system to lead us to the abolition of the exploitation of man by man and the conquest of the workers' popular power.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because, for reasons of urgency, it is justified to proceed to the vote before the expiry of the deadline of eight weeks laid down in article 6 of protocol no 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. the european union has been taking initiatives to improve the quality of life of people who move pets since 2003, when it established the basic framework for the possession, movement and hygiene of pets in regulation 998/2003. this report upgrades the existing framework. the main objective is to facilitate the movement of pet animal owners together with their animals within the union or to third countries, while preventing risks to public or animal health. the context of the concept of 'non-commercial pet animals' is also clarified so that the term cannot be exploited by professional traders in their attempt to circumvent the normal tax framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution. the situation of syrian refugees in neighbouring countries, and in particular in turkey, has repeatedly concerned the european parliament. as regards greece in particular, the close monitoring of developments in syria and the movement of refugees is becoming more important because of our country's proximity to the war zone. a number of questions i have tabled show that, at present, eu support (financial and logistical) to third countries hosting refugees is significant but certainly not sufficient to meet all needs. however, at a time when the number of syrian refugees is still growing rapidly (it has exceeded one million) and the crisis in syria continues, the european parliament's periodic and regular initiatives, on the one hand to end the violence and on the other hand to control refugee flows and to deal with the humanitarian crisis, are of crucial importance for europe and of course for greece.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of refugees in syria because it is an issue that requires an immediate response, through concrete action by the eu, to address the humanitarian crisis in the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution, which is a continuation of previous resolutions on the arab spring countries. it is clear that the recovery of assets from the countries of the region in transition is a moral and legal imperative and, in fact, a highly politically sensitive issue in the mediterranean region. the return of seized assets (public and private) stolen by former dictators and their regimes in countries now in transition is of interest to our country as well. the recovery of assets is a precondition for union support to the region, but there is no doubt that this process will be lengthy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the expropriation of assets by former dictators and their regimes in arab spring countries has, beyond the economic dimension, great moral and legal significance. it is important for the eu to have a strong political position on the issue because it highlights its credibility and its commitment to the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. i voted against mr howitt's report because it is biased and contains many elements which are inaccurate. the report does not reflect the actual situation in the fyrom. further efforts are needed by the government of this country to meet the basic accession criteria.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution on a macro-regional strategy for the alps because i believe that it will undoubtedly be an important tool for strengthening european territorial cooperation in the region and will make a tangible contribution to the development of the concept of territorial cohesion of the eu, which, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, has now been set as a priority on an equal footing with economic and social cohesion. i also believe that it will allow the countries of the region to coordinate existing eu funds, in particular those of cohesion policy, to implement projects aimed at addressing common challenges. in general, as the existing baltic and danube strategies have shown, macro-regional strategies help to promote cooperation, strengthen synergies with major community policies and create significant european added value as they must be based on the principle of multi-level governance in order to ensure cooperation between local, regional and national actors. in this context, it is legitimate and welcome to develop similar strategies throughout the eu, such as in the mediterranean region.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union is based on the principle of the protection of the financial interests of the union by the member states. the member states alone have spectacularly failed to tackle these phenomena and there are very strong arguments based on the good faith application of the principle of subsidiarity to tackle them by creating strong, new, common institutions, with a more and more effective europe. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is a step in the right direction. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, i should first like to congratulate elisabeth morin-chartier, who did an excellent job and had enormous stamina. it took a lot of time and effort, we had intense tripartite dialogues with the council and the commission, we had tensions among ourselves, but in the end we came to a very good result! we have a balanced text which, on the one hand, ensures the greatest possible protection of workers and, on the other, ensures that electromagnetic fields can be used without endangering workers, but at the same time performing the work required. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is that in cases where a worker is unwell, has an immediate effect from exposure to an electromagnetic field, he can be protected, he can be put under medical supervision, at no cost to himself. and secondly, and most importantly, we have ensured that research is being done into the long-term effects, and if it is shown that there are similar long-term health effects, the commission should take action. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of noise.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the new directive, as agreed by the european parliament, the commission and the council, makes the existing 2004 directive even worse, which did not guarantee the protection of workers' health from exposure to electromagnetic fields anyway. after two extensions, medical workers using mri equipment are now exempt from protection, as are military and civilian personnel in the armed forces. the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of social policy, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on social affairs and employment, which are aimed at improving the situation of women in the community. the protection of the health and life of workers is a cost to the european union and the civil governments of the member states, it is of no value compared to 'competitiveness', to maximising the profitability of enterprises, which is made with the blood and life of the working class. the non-binding guide is not going to be the solution. the overthrow of capitalist barbarity, the demolition of the european union's edifice and the power of the monopolies by the working class and its allies, is a debt to its life and future.
i am glad you are here today, mr president, mr commissioner, and i am glad that - as you said - we are on the same page, but i am sorry that this wave is constantly drowning social indicators. that has to change! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and there is a problem, not just for all the countries of europe, but especially for those that are on a program, like greece. question no 69, by mr pimenta: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens but unfortunately, your services are not involved. so you cannot have an appreciation of what every measure dictated by mr wren's office means socially. and i'll end by saying this very simple. did i ask you in writing what was going to happen with this case? will you assess the social impact of the economic measures? and you said to me - i am reading it to the letter - that the commission is assessing the social impact of the macroeconomic stabilization programmes in which the troika participates. and i would like to put a question: what has this evaluation finally come up with? where have you come to and where are we going in the future?
mr president, the revelation that large technology companies are providing us government agencies with direct access to the servers of their systems and networks, through the so-called prism framework, is certainly worrying and puts all of us in a position of responsibility. it is important that we have an extraordinary debate in the house tomorrow morning, with a statement from the commission and a statement from the political groups, and it is also clear that this development raises serious questions about the handling of the personal data of european citizens, especially after the statement by the head of the us intelligence service that this case concerns non-american citizens. and it is also crucial that this is happening at a time when, at european level, we are negotiating the framework of minimum standards for the protection of the personal data of european citizens and are therefore in intensive consultations with the united states of america. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, in my country, greece, democracy is being murdered every day. with unprecedented misery within the parliament, with the repeated denial of the holocaust by members of the national parliament, with daily attacks against unprotected immigrants, with preachings of hatred, violence and division. the nazi party of golden dawn threatens with its rhetoric and actions all that generations of greeks fought for: a democratic greece of solidarity and respect. the economic crisis is growing in influence and greek-only dinners are - unfortunately - becoming attractive to those who have lost all hope. democratic political forces must put aside all their differences and move directly to the anti-racism bill. there is no room for second thoughts, for micro-politics and for opportunism. democracy, even if wounded, must be defended. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, which is the european parliament's contribution to the final guidelines on regional aid, so that this type of aid can play an important and effective role and be focused where it is most needed. i agree with the need for a more simplified and more efficient system of state aid, which will ensure greater transparency. also, as regards the issue of investment aid to large enterprises, the overall exemption of large enterprises from the state aid rules should be considered in the light of their contribution to employment, the opportunities created for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises and their participation in research and development. in short, the existing system of regional state aid should be adapted to the new economic reality and to the future cohesion policy, taking into account its impact on the real economy, job creation and regional development.
mr president, by imposing infrastructure charges on motorways, member states are applying the principle that the user should pay for the use of the motorway, rather than the taxpayer. this practice allows fair competition, for example in the transport of goods, between road transport on the one hand and maritime and rail transport on the other. the imposition of these charges is therefore justified in principle, provided that it is based on correct pricing which reflects the cost of construction and deterioration of the infrastructure. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to road transport is a very good one. firstly, the inertia of the member states and the relevant sectors in the organization of the european telecommunications service and, secondly, the asymmetry in the way that vignetting systems are used by several member states, which indirectly give their citizens a premium over other european users.
the first item on the agenda today is the recommendation for second reading by mrs frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on food intended for infants and young children and on food intended for special medical purposes and as a substitute for the whole of the diet for weight control and repealing council directive 92/52/eec, directives 96/8/ec, 1999/21/ec, 2006/125/ec and 2006/141/ec, directive 2009/39/ec of the european parliament and of the council and regulations (ec) no 41/2009 and (ec) no 953/2009 (oj l 347, 31.12.2013, p. 1).
the debate is closed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
the next item on the agenda is the communication from the european commission on us internet surveillance of eu citizens (nsa prism programme) (2013/2677 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that this debate is followed by a round of speeches from the political groups and that there is no 'catch the eye' procedure, nor are there any 'blue card' questions.
colleagues, let me remind you that according to the decision of the political groups, there is no catch-the-eye or blue card procedure in this debate; that is in order to secure more time for the speakers of the political groups.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by the european parliament in response to the commission's communication on the draft 'european agenda for consumers'. this own-initiative proposal welcomes the increased efforts at european level to protect consumers, but also makes important new proposals. in particular, parliament called on the commission to draw up a green paper for european consumers, which would benefit consumer rights organisations, citizens, national parliaments and governments. the commission is also calling for the safety of food and medicines sold online to be improved, and in a recent intervention the commission stated that more than 50% of medicines sold online are counterfeit, posing serious risks to consumers' health.
in writing. − i voted in favour. the eu consumer policy strategy for the years 2014-2020 will include a set of initiatives geared towards ensuring food safety, health, energy, and financial aspects, amongst other aspects. at a global level, european consumers are facing new challenges such as the globalisation of markets, financial deregulation, the digitisation of the economy and the aging population. all this increases the relevance of instruments of redress and support for consumer organisations. in addition, the current financial crisis complicates the decisions taken by consumers, so efficient, transparent, reliable and comparable information needs to be accessible to consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because council directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 will improve access to justice in cross-border disputes by establishing minimum common rules relating to legal aid for such disputes and is a very important piece of legislation for european citizens, as it aims to ensure that less well-off members of society also have access to justice in other member states, for example when exercising their right to free movement or benefiting from the internal market.
in writing. the negotiations between the european parliament, on the one hand, and the commission and council, on the other, have been successfully concluded, covering almost all food intended for infants and young children and for special medical purposes, thus enriching the relevant community legislative framework and increasing the protection of european citizens. by regulating a number of elements in food, such as gluten, lactose, food additives and food substitutes, this report seeks to protect consumers while at the same time regulating the avoidance of abusive rules and misleading advertising practices for the food sector and for the diet as a whole. the compromise solution recognizes the need to adopt specific requirements to meet the nutritional needs of infants, particularly for products intended for infants, which have at times been a matter of concern in our country. the amendments are considered satisfactory and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the amendments proposed, which have been voted by an overwhelming majority in parliament, improve the commission and council proposal on the protection of consumers and children against abuse of market rules and misleading practices in the food sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it recognises that a balance can be struck by setting very strict exposure limit values and exempting mri and related activities from those values. on the one hand, there is the eu’s obligation to protect the health and safety of workers in accordance with articles 151 and 153(1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and, on the other hand, the real progress in public health research which can be made using mri technology.
in writing. − criminal influence on the economy, society, and local institutions is becoming increasingly palpable in several parts of the world. organised crime has today become an economic global player which benefits from enormous illicit competitive advantages and, through fraud, is polluting the lawful economy. i voted in favour of this report because it offers a guide to more effective european and national legislation to tackle organised crime, corruption, and money laundering. in particular, it aims to set out a coherent uniform regulatory framework designed to strike at the economic heart of organised crime and strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, including some proposals to protect citizens from poverty and social exclusion, in a particularly difficult economic context. despite the non-binding nature of the report, it contains some very useful suggestions which the commission and the member states could use, particularly in the fight against homelessness. it is also characteristic that in my recent speech on the subject, the commissioner responsible, mr barnier, had replied that there are considerable possibilities for supporting social housing, both through the european regional development fund and through the european social fund, from which our country can also benefit. social housing can also be a response by public authorities to the housing market failure to meet all housing needs and to ensure access to decent housing at an affordable price for all.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a fact that there is an urgent social need for investment in the social housing sector. there is also a need for a sufficient supply of affordable, good-quality social housing as part of the response to health challenges. other essential factors are resources combating energy poverty and a set of objective and transparent criteria for the allocation of housing, subject to proper governance in the interests of an integrated approach and a social mix, thus combating various forms of discrimination.
in writing. − i voted for this report. in the coming years, europe will have some significant challenges to face in order to make the labour market more open and accessible. it is important that there are no exclusions or barriers to this, and it is particularly important for women who leave the labour force temporarily, for maternity reasons or to look after their families, and for whom a high level of education is essential to enable them to return promptly to the labour market. therefore it is important to achieve this report’s objective to raise to 75% the employment rate for women and men aged 20-64, also through greater participation of young people, older workers and low-skilled workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the changes that are required to make toll services more efficient throughout europe. the use of online payment systems is key to ensuring price transparency and convenience, particularly for those not resident in the member state where the charging is taking place.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the new asylum package as it is being completed after the negotiations and compromises is a positive development, many of the achievements have already been mentioned. we ensure common minimum standards for the procedures, reception and protection of asylum seekers. in full respect of their fundamental rights, without exception, in every member state, with solidarity, with responsibility, with cooperation, with a view to avoiding the abuse of asylum systems by economic migrants who, often with the encouragement of traffickers, make applications when they are not really entitled to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of european integration. the reason is that a third country national, whose asylum application has been rejected, cannot go to another member state because of the schengen ban, nor can he be returned to his country of origin, because cooperation with third countries is ineffective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. unfortunately, while in recent years there have been cosmopolitan changes in our neighbourhood and in the flows of migrants to europe, the council pretends not to see them, behaves as if nothing has changed. the council rejected the commission's 2008 proposal to suspend refunds in cases of countries under immense pressure. it seems that the courts will continue to make up for our lack of action and solidarity with their decisions. and despite the initial commitments, the council also does not accept the creation of a mechanism for the internal resettlement of asylum seekers on the basis of a redistribution clause based on qualitative and quantitative criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i must therefore say today, as i did in the libe committee in all the votes, that my vote on the dublin regulation is negative, as is the vote of my greek colleagues from the new democracy in the european parliament.
mr president, i think that anyone who has not been persecuted and imprisoned can easily say a lot of things and say let us deal first with people who are in our region, in our country. we hear this rhetoric very often, but i remind you that citizens from countries like greece, which today receives a large number of refugees or asylum seekers, were in the past forced to seek asylum when persecuted by dictatorship and the junta. we therefore have an obligation to uphold this core human right, which is the right to provide asylum to those who are in real need. but the council must send the right message, because if it sends the wrong message then extremists take advantage of it and rely on it and create a great reaction in societies, as is being seen especially in societies in the south at the moment. we need a common european policy which is not a minimum standard but a correct standard, and we really need to share responsibility and not be led into situations where people who have been tortured are put back in detention, because, as you know very well, they are reliving their torture if they are forced to go through similar experiences.
mr president, although the level of protection in the asylum sector is being significantly increased by this new package, there are still obstacles to a truly integrated system. unfortunately, the revised regulation still provides for the return of asylum seekers to the country of first entry, even though it is known that ports of entry are countries such as greece, italy and malta, which receive the largest flows of migrants and refugees from asia and africa. we therefore continue to ask the most vulnerable members of our family, simply because they have the 'bad luck' of being on the border of a crisis area, to take full responsibility, knowing that they are not in a position to do so, despite the admittedly substantial financial and technical assistance provided by the commission. the libyans, commissioner, did not come to italy because they preferred that country, but simply because it is the easiest european country to reach. the european union has a duty to take care of them, and the same applies to the syrian refugees who have arrived in greece. so where is the fair distribution of the burden that is supposed to be the primary objective of european union policies? what is involved in the good faith sharing of responsibilities between member states or the humanitarian duty? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. for these reasons, mr president, i have no choice but to vote against the dublin regulation. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted by a large majority) )
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for your intervention and question. i think the sharing of responsibilities is not to be measured only in economic terms, and i said in my intervention that generous economic support is also provided by the union and by the commission and, once again, i would like to thank you for this. sharing of responsibilities also applies in political and ethical terms: you must acknowledge the fact that we have external borders in the european union and that those countries that make up these external borders have to take on a much bigger burden because of crisis regions, so this is why i think that the sharing of burdens is also an ethical issue.
mr president, there is no doubt that the final agreement on the schengen package is a very important development. i would like to congratulate mr coelho and mrs weber on their efforts and tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that i myself have been following closely as rapporteur the whole process of preparing a third report on the amendment and revision of the schengen code and the schengen treaty in other areas, which we have completed with our colleagues without any problems at first reading and which we are voting on tomorrow. the schengen area and free movement within it remains one of the most promoted forms of cooperation in the european union, governed by very specific operating rules, and much more demanding respect by all member states. in two words: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. and it is clear that unilateral actions undermine the overall effort, they wound the sense of solidarity between the states that make up the schengen area as a whole. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. and i'm referring specifically to: those who think, for example, that by giving travel documents to illegal immigrants, they solve the problem of the large number of illegal immigrants in a country, i do not know if they have any idea of reality, they certainly have no knowledge and no idea at all of the spirit and the way the schengen area works. they obviously have no concept of the effects of this speech. i would like to ask you, commissioner, if it is possible to give me an answer to that point.
the schengen system is certainly a great achievement for the free movement of citizens in europe, but it also has its side effects. i am one of those who believe in the need for security at the borders of the member states, which is of course guaranteed exclusively by the observance and application of internal rules without the intervention of the european union. we are supposed to be trying to ensure that the burden of the refugee flows on national societies is shared fairly. but how is this to be ensured, mr president, ladies and gentlemen? of the 26 european schengen countries, only 6 are experiencing all the migratory pressure, as countries on the external borders of the european union. the northern countries, the countries which have no maritime borders on the mediterranean, do not understand the problem facing greece, much more than any other country, in relation to its population. the economy of our country and its social structures have been devastated and unemployment is rampant. unfortunately, european migration policy does not involve a bona fide allocation of responsibilities between member states. suffice it to say: for the period 2007 to 2011, almost €1 billion was allocated to these six countries alone to address migration flows. the cost to greece is more than 30 billion.
mr president, i would like to stress one of the main messages of the excellent report by mr sánchez presedo, namely that competition policy must have as its ultimate aim the entry of new players and the emergence of new ideas and initiatives in the economies of the member states. this message has not been heard equally loudly in all the countries in crisis, although it is a prerequisite for the organization of a new, sustainable production model in the economy. at the same time, we are still far from convincing everyone that the rules are common to all. the factors which impede the completion of the single market have a macroeconomic dimension, such as differences in the accessibility or cost of money, labour law and others in the member states, which are of course only radically addressed by a single economic governance. however, the landscape will change dramatically if we move immediately to harmonise and simplify regulatory frameworks across all economic activities.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner, the issue we are discussing is very important, it concerns the operation of criminal organisations with an impact on local communities and, in fact, the commission must stop giving the impression that it covers countries and companies and draw up a proper list that includes all the countries and ships involved in such illegal activities. but i would also like to mention a matter which is topical in my country. a few hours ago the greek government, out of the blue, announced that at 12 o'clock tonight, it is shutting down the greek public television, all public television channels and radio stations. at the same time, the water supply system of my city, thessaloniki, and that of athens, is being privatized and sold, and schools and public buildings are being sold at the same time. i would ask the commission very clearly, commissioner: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is the commission - through the troika - ordering the sale of the water company, schools and public buildings in greece?
mr president, commissioner, illegal fishing makes it economically, socially and environmentally impossible to manage the exploitation of the world's marine resources in a sustainable way. it is one of the most serious threats to the biodiversity of our planet's seas. regulation 1005/08, adapted to the lisbon treaty, is therefore a necessary instrument to combat this scourge, since it defines the responsibilities of the flag state, the coastal state, the port state and the market state, both in relation to the member states of the union and to third countries. but it is equally crucial that we fully implement our legislative framework, insisting strongly on the effective fight against illegal fishing by - and above all by - third countries. the need to combat this phenomenon is also a key argument for the establishment of a european coastguard.
mr president, today's debate on fisheries is of particular interest to an island country like greece. but that's not going to happen, because the three-party government has decided to shut down the greek public television, starting at midnight today, laying off 2,650 employees. the communist party of greece expresses its solidarity and supports the struggle of the greek television workers, demanding the government to immediately withdraw the legislative act.
mr president, commissioner, i too call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the amendments supporting the exemption of small farms from the linear reduction that may have to be imposed after the finalisation of the budget for the period 2014-2020. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production, which are not yet available. on the contrary, small farms are responsible for providing a wealth of social goods that are not rewarded by markets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am very grateful for this opportunity to discuss the preparations for the next meeting of the european council. the irish presidency will be working, as always, very closely with president van rompuy to ensure the best possible preparation for this important meeting. the june european council will continue our focus on the goal of improving competitiveness, returning to strong and sustainable growth, and creating jobs. president van rompuy has therefore decided to focus the debate on the european semester, the fight against youth unemployment, improving access to finance and further deepening emu. on the european semester, the june meeting will bring this year’s exercise to a close through the endorsement of the country-specific recommendations. the european council is expected not only to underline the need to continue with fiscal consolidation, but also to acknowledge the importance of extending certain edp deadlines, given the current economic situation. this is part of a renewed effort to accelerate and consolidate structural reforms. the discussion should help create ownership of the recommendations at the highest level. this will in turn contribute to ensuring their swift and effective implementation at national level. in our preparations for the presidency, we identified effective management of this third european semester cycle as a key focus, and an instant contribution which we could make towards enhancing european stability. we felt it important to work very closely with others, ensuring that the lessons learned from last year’s exercise were fully taken on board, and building on the stronger bilateral dialogue now in place between the commission and the member states. what is important is that relevant council formations work in a coordinated and consistent manner towards a thorough preparation for the june european council. our work will continue over the coming weeks, particularly in terms of streamlining committee work under the aegis of epsco and ecofin, recognising their overlapping responsibilities on issues such as pension reforms, wage indexing, and the tax wedge on labour. the june european council will then set clear country-specific orientations for the national budget cycles across the union in the second half of the year. it is crucial that we keep up the momentum behind national-level reforms, underpinned by the goals of the europe 2020 strategy. this means restoring competitiveness, and unlocking the necessary investments across the union in growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive. it is also appropriate that i acknowledge again on behalf of the presidency the crucial work parliament has been doing towards strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the european semester. parliament has been in the vanguard in highlighting that these must be open and inclusive processes, supporting meaningful engagement with all relevant stakeholders at both the national and european levels. stepping up our efforts to fight youth unemployment remains, of course, a top priority. there is a very strong focus at the top political level on the importance of confronting this enormous challenge, and its significance to all of our societies. i know it is of particular concern here in this parliament. it is very welcome therefore that president van rompuy has given such prominence to this issue for the june european council meeting and it is why getting agreement on the youth guarantee at epsco in february – that every young person should be in education, training or work within four months of leaving school – will rank amongst the most important presidency achievements for us. i expect that early proposals for national-level implementation must now be the key next step. this is of course an issue which is primarily the responsibility of individual member states, but one where there is clear added value at eu level, both in terms of support and learning. we should also acknowledge that different member states face very different implementation issues. this is where the eur 6 billion youth employment initiative, as part of the new mff, can make a crucial contribution. we look forward to parliament’s cooperation in making sure it is ready to go from the beginning of next year. and we also need to explore the other options, such as better mobilising structural funds to tackle youth unemployment. eu support will also be key to helping increase the mobility of young workers, and among other measures, the commission has made considerable efforts to develop eures into an effective tool for recruitment at european level, and plans to expand this further. it has also put forward a directive to tackle the remaining barriers to the freedom of movement of workers. we hope that both the council and parliament will be able to reach a rapid agreement on this. let me now turn to the issue of access to finance. financial fragmentation and the lack of access to credit are seriously undermining growth and must be tackled urgently. all the economic indicators are telling us that we need to redouble our efforts here: further contraction this year for both the eu and the euro area, and unemployment up nearly two million on a year ago. the key to bringing down unemployment across europe will, of course, be recovery in the real economy: companies growing their businesses and creating new jobs. the compact for growth and jobs, agreed last june, represents an important reinforcement of political commitment to doing what is necessary to support recovery. there will be a full review of the compact in june, one year on from its adoption. a top priority is to facilitate the take-up of financing instruments by companies, in particular smes, which constitute the backbone of the economy in most member states and which are absolutely key to creating jobs. rapid agreement on the cosme programme is a particular priority in this context, given its importance to smes. i would like to thank parliament for its cooperation on this extremely important file. but more needs to be done to encourage private investment and the european council is expected to decide on further action. the eur 10 billion increase in the eib’s paid-in capital that was agreed as part of the compact is now in place and will support a 40 % increase in lending capacity over the 2013-2015 period. it is also welcome that president draghi has made clear the ecb’s commitment to working closely with the other institutions, including the european commission and the eib, to improve business lending conditions. europe will have recovered from the current crisis only when its economies are growing again and creating jobs. this means, above all, unlocking new business investments in the real economy: successful firms expanding their activities at home and abroad, including new firms and new growth areas. there are a number of further issues that arise in june in the context of the compact, including industrial competitiveness and smart regulation. in the current difficult economic climate, a strong eu industrial base is absolutely crucial. the european council is expected to discuss action needed to assist recovery of european industry in the short and medium term and to ensure its long-term competitiveness and sustainability. focus will be on those strategic sectors which have the potential to underpin growth and create jobs. this will help to prepare for a more substantive discussion which is planned for the february 2014 european council. finally, on smart regulation, the heads of state and government will take stock of progress, in particular the commission’s ongoing work on the most burdensome regulations for smes and on regulatory fitness. the focus of the discussion will again be on competitiveness and job creation, in particular through avoiding unnecessary burdens on smes and micro-enterprises. all institutions have a part to play in this work. the other major issue on the agenda, of course, is economic and monetary union. although the situation on financial markets is less volatile than a year ago, we must continue to make progress on completing emu. the june european council will take stock of work so far, and will place particular emphasis on the top priority of completing the banking union, which has been advanced through the agreements on crr/crd iv and the ssm. banking union is intended to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns, and minimise the risk to taxpayers of having to deal with failed financial institutions. our earlier debate showed broad agreement and i think that more has yet to be done. we must agree quickly on the directives on bank recovery and resolution and deposit guarantee schemes. we must also concentrate on the single resolution mechanism. the discussions in the european council are certainly not the end of the story. i am very pleased to note that the european council is also expected to hold a discussion on latvia’s application to adopt the euro as its currency. the recent positive commission convergence report on latvian accession to the euro was hard-earned, and is testament to a country which has shown huge determination in confronting enormous economic challenges in recent years. the european council may also take decisions on the opening of accession negotiations with candidate countries, but this will of course depend on progress in the council in the run-up to the meeting. and the european council will also formally adopt the decision establishing the future composition of this parliament, based on a proposal from parliament, provided that you have given your consent. the june european council will be a further step in our efforts to return to growth, embed stability, create jobs and improve competitiveness in europe. this is part of a process which is absolutely essential for the future well-being of our societies and for the good of europe as a whole. i want to thank parliament for its support in working towards this shared goal.
president of the commission. − mr president, the next european council takes place in a very challenging context. several years of very weak or negative growth have led to very high levels of unemployment. youth unemployment and poverty are rising in many parts of europe. we need to go further with our efforts for growth at european level and in the member states. and i see this european council mainly focused on two issues: employment, particularly youth employment, and financing the economy, particularly smes. the june european council is expected to endorse the country-specific recommendations which the commission presented two weeks ago under the third european semester of economic policy coordination at european level. our analysis has shown that, in spite of all the difficulties, the european union and its member states are making progress in meeting many of the challenges. a rebalancing of the european union economy is taking place on the back of wide-ranging reforms but is not yet finished. significant adjustments are under way simultaneously across europe and need to be completed, also because of the interdependence of our economies. fiscal consolidation is ongoing and releasing pressure from the markets. this is precisely why it must continue in order to ensure a return to sustainable growth. we have seen, we have learned the hard way, that growth fuelled by high levels of debt, public debt or private debt, is simply not sustainable. reforms for competitiveness have been undertaken, particularly to improve the resilience and flexibility of the labour markets. this must be complemented by further urgent action to address the unacceptably high levels of unemployment and increasing poverty rates in a number of our member states. we must support the young so they succeed in the transition from education to work. restoring lending to smes, indeed to the economy in general, remains an absolute priority. lending conditions remain tight and the supply of credit limited in spite of massive support given to the banking sector. we need solutions for businesses with solid business plans that cannot get financing. above all, we need to accelerate these structural reforms. we need to step up their pace across the european union to secure recovery and ensure the rebalancing of the economy. ‘deficit’ countries need to boost their competitiveness. ‘surplus’ countries need to remove the structural obstacles to the growth of their domestic demand. the commission’s country-specific recommendations clearly say that member states can, and should, do more to help themselves get back to growth and move europe beyond the crisis. employment creation and measures that will restore lending to smes were already highlighted as priorities in our annual growth survey and are now at the core of our european semester. let me focus on the first point. 26 million europeans are unemployed, of whom over six million are young people. we must deliver effective measures to tackle this social crisis here and now. to this end, the commission will leave no stone unturned in its efforts. the commission and parliament have long been pushing for concrete action in terms of employment. indeed, as some of you remember, it was already in 2009 that i first proposed that the european council should meet specifically to address the issue of employment. frankly, at the time, there was little interest in this idea. instead of a special european council, there was a meeting of the trio of presidencies and in prague we met with the prime minister of the czech republic, the prime minister of sweden and the minister of labour of spain. i welcome the fact that now we have a consensus among member states to move this forward as a priority and that different member states are now taking initiatives nationally and bilaterally. it is important that all these initiatives are integrated in the european framework and momentum. the forthcoming european council should give a new impulse, building on what has already been set in motion. almost a year and a half ago the commission established youth employment action teams for those member states where youth unemployment was at its highest. over eur 16 billion from the structural funds have been reallocated. this has allowed eight member states to establish national youth action plans backed by real resources and we are seeing the first results on the ground. for example, in ireland an education and training fund, ‘momentum’, will provide skills training to 6 500 long-term unemployed. the esf will contribute 50 %, around eur 10 million, to this fund. in slovakia projects worth eur 70 million from the esf are being implemented with micro-enterprises and smes. to date 6 200 new jobs have been created. in latvia the focus is on upgrading vocational education schools in order to double the supply of vocational training to cover 40 % of young unemployed people. and in portugal a major initiative called ‘impulso jovem’ aims to promote youth employment and job creation, as well as targeted support for the private sector. some 90 000 young people and 4 500 smes are expected to benefit by 2015. in greece a major reprogramming has allowed the creation of a national youth action plan with european union funding of eur 571 million. and while these programmes took time to start in some countries, there will be hundreds of thousands of young people across europe who will benefit. but more work is needed and more work is already under way, because unemployment affects not hundreds of thousands but millions across europe. so we need more to make the youth guarantee a reality. the youth employment initiative should make a real difference in parts of europe where the youth unemployment rate is above 25 %. from our side we are working to frontload this initiative to hit the ground running at the very start of 2014. that means concentrating the financing in the very first years of the next programming period. by this i mean 2014, 2015 and 2016. these efforts need to be complemented with an appropriate allocation from the esf. it is therefore essential to assure a significant minimum share of the european social fund within the overall structural funds. programmes for education and mobility of young people, such as the proposed ‘erasmus for all’, are crucial. the ‘your first eures job’ programme will be strengthened by using the european social fund to support mobility of young jobseekers across europe. well-established apprenticeship systems are a feature of the member states with a better performance in terms of youth employment: for instance, austria and germany. therefore the commission is launching on 2 july 2013 the ‘european alliance for apprenticeships’ to improve the quality and supply of apprenticeships all over the european union, by bringing together national authorities, social partners, companies and relevant stakeholders. addressing skills mismatch in sectors with recognised job creation potential is also a priority. the commission has launched a multi-stakeholder partnership, the ‘grand coalition for digital jobs’ to tackle the challenge of the anticipated 900 000 vacancies in the ict sector. action for employment is a focus of the measures set out for the four programme countries. our proposed country-specific recommendations include youth employment-related recommendations for a further 17 member states: recommendations ranging from improving vocational training and effective employment services to reducing skills mismatches and expanding apprenticeships. we will support the member states wherever we can with the instruments that we have at european level and we will intensify the work with the social partners, which have a vital role to play in this matter. to create jobs we need growth, and for growth we need investment, smart investment – at european level, in the member states. the first point i want to make here is that europe can have a growth fund, a fund with almost eur 1 trillion, if the multiannual financial framework is adopted. that is why i urge all the member states to cooperate with the irish presidency and to make a move in accepting parliament’s justified requests, for example on flexibility. as the commission has always said, the difference between commitments and payments in the european council conclusions makes flexibility indispensable to a final agreement for the mff. if the mff is to have the desired impact on investment and growth it should be completed as soon as possible. some of our member states have a dramatic need for the investment it will bring. and all member states – i stress, all member states – have to realise there is no time to lose. ahead of the european council i will report, together with the european investment bank, on possible short-term measures to restore lending to the economy. our focus will be first of all on the financing of smes. smes in particular are feeling the pinch as bank loans dry up. smes, in fact all our companies, need a return to normal lending conditions. the need is most acute in those member states which have been hardest hit by the crisis. excessively tight access to credit remains a key obstacle to the revival of economic activity – especially in the most vulnerable member states. the differential in lending spreads across the union implies a wide variation in financing conditions for companies in the single market and, particularly, in the euro area. these spreads seem to relate less to the intrinsic credit quality of the borrower and more to their geographical location! this is absurd in an economic and monetary union. smes are particularly affected by these constraints in the credit supply. here is the vicious circle which we need to break. those countries most in need of investment and of a return to a normal financial sector are those where national actions alone are unlikely to achieve this result in the short term. if there is no confidence, banks will not lend and firms will be reluctant to borrow. a european consensus will help restore confidence, break the vicious circle and boost economic activity. let me give you some examples. the net savings rate in portugal, in spite of all the extreme difficulties that country is facing, is higher than at any time in the last decade. in france, in ireland, in slovakia, in sweden and in the uk, savings rates post-crisis are above – sometimes well above – pre-2008 levels. yet savers are not prepared to invest their funds, nor is there a willingness to consume. that shows that confidence is key to growth. we are also exploring other ways to improve access to finance. we need to provide companies with alternatives to bank loans – for example, private equity, risk-sharing instruments with the european investment bank. we will soon come forward with a proposal for a regulatory framework for long-term investment funds. the commission was at the forefront of the successful efforts to increase the capital of the eib. we now hope that the eib will be able to contribute to our efforts to improve access to finance. we are working actively with the eib to that end. three types of ‘joint instrument’ are currently under consideration. all three involve pooling of resources from the structural funds, horizon 2020, cosme and the eib/eif and other public banks to increase lending to smes by providing guarantees to banks. in every case the provision of public support will be conditional on the benefits being passed through to smes in the form of increased lending. restoring this confidence by setting out a vision of where the european economy is headed is the reason for working towards deeper economic and monetary union. the progress of latvia towards joining the euro area is a sign of confidence in the euro. it is a concrete message. contrary to what some have predicted, what is happening is not that countries are leaving the euro, but new countries are joining the euro. creating a banking union is essential. it is the most important short-term action in the process of deepening economic and monetary union and our efforts towards the banking union cannot be relaxed. next week the council should reach a general approach on the bank recovery and resolution directive. the single supervisory mechanism will be formally adopted before the summer. this paves the way for the commission’s proposal for a single resolution mechanism which will be ready in the coming weeks. at the same time, the commission is working on the other dimensions of emu; on the ex-ante coordination of major economic reforms; on the competitiveness and convergence instrument and most importantly on the social dimension of emu. in all of these areas the commission will come forward with specific proposals. we must also do more on implementation. for this, we need to complete and fully enact the compact for growth and jobs which also includes the important measures to strengthen the internal market, presented as single market acts i and ii. let me take just one example, an example that we discussed yesterday in the college of commissioners: the digital market, and telecommunications specifically. one of the main problems we have is that we do not have a digital market in europe at this time of digital transformation. indeed, instead of one single market for the digital field, we have 27 mini-markets, or even micro-markets. i would even say nano-markets, when you compare them to the other big markets in the world, like the united states or china. this is why we need to address this issue, and the commission will put forward new proposals in early september. we have also worked on proposals to develop an industrial policy which delivers industrial competitiveness. the steel action plan which we adopted yesterday shows that we are responsive to the difficulties which european industries face. the commission is also working to reduce the overall burden of regulation, especially on smes. our forthcoming communication on the top ten burdensome regulations is an example of how we are working to make life easier for european firms. at the same time, the work on fair burden-sharing between all parts of society is continuing. just yesterday, the commission adopted a proposal for the automatic exchange of information on savings taxation. we will continue to deliver on the tax agenda, and in the g8 in northern ireland next week we will push forward this priority at global level. indeed, we will work on the other priorities set out by the british g8 presidency: transparency and trade. as a conclusion, let me tell you that this is the time to develop what i could call a european consensus: if we do not pull together, we will be pulled apart. we need a consensus built on practical steps to resolve the crisis. a consensus not just on the need for growth and jobs, but on the means to achieve this. a consensus for an economically more competitive europe and a socially more inclusive europe. such a consensus is not just a political formula. it is of critical importance for economic confidence for investors and for consumers. because divisions and contradictory messages coming from different capitals are counterproductive and undermine confidence – confidence we need from financial markets, from businesses, and particularly from our citizens! in a nutshell the consensus has three elements: first, on-going fiscal consolidation should continue at a pace that reflects the situation in each country and is focused on structural rather than nominal deficits. second, member states should intensify in parallel their efforts on the implementation of structural reforms for competitiveness. third, because many of these structural measures take time before delivering concrete results in terms of employment creation, specific focused action should be taken to deliver short-term results for the unemployed, and especially for the young. we need action to build on the foundations we have put in place. in the european council i will urge the member states to assume their responsibilities, implement what we have already agreed and commit to effective action for the future. i know the commission can count on the support of this parliament for our agenda for growth and jobs.
mr president, today's debate in the european parliament on the preparatory work for the european council on 27 and 28 june is very important for the peoples of the member states of the european union, for all peoples. unfortunately, however, this is not the case for the greeks. last night the three-party government decided to shut down the greek public television and radio stations, simultaneously firing 2,650 workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr commissioner, a short while ago my group's leader, hannes swoboda, said that he was shocked by the government's surprise decision in greece to close down public broadcasting overnight. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the baltic sea. i think that the commission should be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i hope that the council will be able to give its opinion on the matter. do you know who is responsible for this decision, mr vice-president of the commission? it is giving in to the troika's pressure to have an immediate effect on the demand for 2,000 redundancies in the public sector by the end of the month. unfortunately, the government was unable to implement a credible plan for substantial restructuring and, to avoid funding and installment problems, it closed down the public broadcaster overnight. i would therefore like to ask you directly: does the commission, as a member of the troika, agree to the closure of public broadcasting in greece? the commission believes that democracy can be part of a programme of fiscal consolidation. are there cuts in democracy? i ask you to take a stand, because in greece the sudden death of public broadcasting is a confirmation of the slow death of democracy and this is not a greek problem, it is a european problem.
mr president, as always, we shall be discussing today, or are discussing, how we see the council developing in the coming days. but what about the council, mr president? the commission has lost its real, deeper, more substantial role as rapporteur and the european council is rushing to make decisions, while the european parliament is being ignored. we all talk about growth and competitiveness. does anyone think that there will be competition with the brics, with the working conditions and the situation that exist there? we need new data, we need research and innovation, we need to avoid duplication of work in the member states on the same specific issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the lisbon guidelines have failed miserably and now it is very likely that the 20-20 strategy will fail, with a multiannual budgetary framework which is suffering and for which we have not yet found a solution among ourselves. mr president, in addition to money for growth and job creation, we also need to have the will, we need new ideas and, above all, we need to put into practice the decisions that have been taken, because it is unprecedented that the council has decided last year on banking matters, on specific matters, and then, a few months later, the council refuses to do so.
in writing. the kke opposes the directives and regulations which make up the eu's so-called 'asylum system', because they make its anti-migration policy even tougher. the rights of refugees and migrants are being stifled and the conditions for granting asylum are being tightened up. the dublin ii regulation remains in force, keeping a very large number of migrants who want to move to other eu countries trapped in the countries of entry. the upgrading of the eurodack electronic fingerprint database will record all migrants and refugees in all eu member states. their personal data are made available to national police authorities and europol, creating a giant eu mechanism for monitoring and repression of migrants. in a period when imperialism is becoming more aggressive, eu-us-nato imperialist interventions are uprooting millions of people from their countries who are desperately trying to survive, and the eu is upgrading repressive mechanisms so that - and in conjunction with the governments in its member states - it can open the floodgates of immigration in line with the needs of the monopolies for industrious foreign labor and the intensification of the exploitation of the working class as a whole.
in writing. the report, which deals with issues of critical importance to greece in the area of asylum (the dublin regulation), was adopted by the ep's plenary without a vote and by simple announcement from the bureau, because the procedure for an early second reading is followed, as required by the rules of procedure. in my speech yesterday in the plenary i said that since there will be no roll-call vote, my vote on the revision of the dublin regulation is negative - as it was in the libe committee in all the votes - and the same applies to the vote of my greek colleagues from the new democracy in the european parliament. at the same time, i stressed once again the need to establish a mechanism for internal (intra-eu) resettlement of migrants, based on a redistribution clause according to qualitative and quantitative indicators applicable to each member state.
in writing. the dublin regulation makes greece a country that has to face alone a huge wave of illegal immigration, without any mechanisms of real european community solidarity. the implementation of the eu's dublin iii treaty provides for the return of illegal migrants to their country of entry, which unfortunately, in an overwhelming proportion, is greece. i therefore voted against mrs willstrom's report, which i disagree with on the substance for the reasons i have just mentioned.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which refers to the effort to combat poverty and social exclusion in the eu. the economic crisis requires even greater action at european and national level in order to achieve the europe 2020 target of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. it is noted that at present this figure is close to 120 million. to date, the main union instrument to support employment, combat poverty and promote integration is the european social fund, which will of course remain the main pillar of social actions in the next financial period (2014-2020). however, the proposed new fund, which will have a budget of eur 2,5 billion for the period 2014-2020, will be a broader instrument for providing material assistance in the form of goods other than food already provided to homeless people and/or children, as well as accompanying measures aimed at the social reintegration of those assisted. it is therefore not a substitute for existing eu policies but an auxiliary and targeted tool in addressing contemporary challenges.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has exacerbated poverty and social exclusion across the union. children in particular need to be protected as they are particularly vulnerable to malnutrition and poor eating habits can adversely affect their development. at the same time, the economic and financial crisis has reduced the capacity of many member states to provide support to people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the proposed fund, with a budget of eur 2,5 billion for the period 2014-2020, will be able to help the economically weakest. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, first of all, as regards the scope of the proposal, the increased and eu-wide harmonised thresholds for small companies (article 3) will help them to benefit from a level playing field across the eu. following the impact assessment carried out in 2009-2011, the commission aims at reducing the administrative burden by 25% by 2012 and foresees potential savings of eur 1.5 billion per year for all companies falling under the scope of the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, with growing volatility in global financial markets, investors are increasingly demanding more information about companies’ practices. it is clear that investors want improved transparency to gain a comprehensive economic picture of investment and risk. in addition, transparency in terms of disclosure is an important indicator of strong corporate governance. given all of these initiatives, there is currently a risk of a fragmented response to transparency. it is therefore important to establish a framework for strong global standards in this area. the proposal to amend the 2004 transparency directive puts such rules in place for eu companies, reflecting standards put forward in the dodd-frank act in the us. this provides a strong starting point for achieving the ultimate goal of global rules in these areas
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the proposal of the rapporteur for an amendment where the cut to direct payments for claims made in 2013 would amount to 0.748005%, rather than the 4.981759% put forward by the commission.
in writing. the kke voted against the regulations to reformulate the schengen treaty in an even more reactionary direction, because they deepen its anti-people character as a mechanism for encapsulating, strengthening and coordinating eu and national repressive mechanisms. the european commission is given increased powers to impose additional controls, including the closure of the external borders of the member states, and even the intervention of eu or police and military forces of other member states at the borders of another member state. these provisions serve the need of the eu and the bourgeois governments to strengthen their repressive mechanisms and action against the workers' and popular movement, the prohibition of demonstrations, the movement of protesters, and popular mobilizations in the run-up to the meetings of the european council of the eu, the c20, the g8, etc. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the lies of the bourgeois governments, the parties of capital and opportunism are exposed, that the schengen treaty is supposedly a 'guarantee of the free movement of citizens', of a 'europe without borders', etc. the reality is that the intensification of anti-people barbarism by the eu and its governments in the member states goes hand in hand with the intensification of repression against the labour movement, authoritarianism and violence against the people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the situation of the outermost and least populated regions and island regions is difficult and needs to be strengthened. the rapporteur's proposal that the commission redefine the new guidelines on regional aid for outermost regions in order to improve operating aid in these regions is in full agreement with me.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on regional policy as part of wider state aid schemes, which is the european parliament's contribution to the final regional aid guidelines so that this type of aid can play an important and effective role and be focused where it is most needed. it is important that the existing system of regional state aid be adapted to the new economic reality and to the future cohesion policy, taking into account its impact on the real economy, job creation and regional development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the aid, including the introduction of a new system of aid for the production of new products. also, with regard to the issue of investment aid to large enterprises, the overall exemption of large enterprises from the state aid rules should be considered in the light of their contribution to employment, the opportunities created for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises and their participation in research and development.
in writing. the forthcoming european council meeting, which will focus on tackling unemployment and the challenges facing young people today, is certainly encouraging. this initiative coincides with the evaluation of the european youth strategy (2010-2018) which i am submitting to the european parliament and which contains important proposals for the member states to take advantage of. it is clear that member states and the european commission need to step up their efforts on a number of issues, such as education, training and support for innovation. but what is urgent today is to tackle youth unemployment. the european social fund until recently had 30 billion euros for this purpose and unfortunately the member states had not adopted the appropriate policies to make full use of them. at the same time, new tools such as the 'youth guarantee' are increasing opportunities for young people to enter the labour market, participate in training or start their own business. of course, much needs to be done. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of young people from the risks of exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to make the directive more effective.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, throughout the decade in which turkey has made significant achievements in reducing its debt and paying off imf loans, the akp and erdoğan’s policies have helped nurture the emergence of the turkish middle class. a big achievement indeed. ironically, today this middle class represents a large majority of the people that are out in the streets protesting against what they believe to be a violation of their freedoms and secular lifestyle. i think it is safe to say that we are witnessing efforts towards the development of a non-secular political islam in turkey which creates absolute terror among the secular turks that we see now in the streets. so the question is: are we moving away from the model of secular democracy in turkey? until now the west has hoped that this model could be replicated in other countries in the middle east. high representative/vice-president ashton, mr erdoğan, among other mistakes, made the mistake of taking all these issues on himself personally. it is very difficult for him to back off now, so i think that we must put our confidence and faith in president gül. despite putting his signature on the alcohol ban legislation, he is the only politician that has shown willingness for compromise and reconciliation.
mr president, the kke condemns the brutal violence and repression of the turkish government against the demonstrators. it expresses its solidarity with the working class and the struggling people of turkey. on june 7 and 8, i was in taksim square in istanbul. the toll of state violence is tragic. the turkish government has targeted protesters, workers' and popular organizations and political parties that are fighting against its anti-people policy. the repressive forces attacked the offices of the communist party of turkey and the nazim hikmet cultural center, and a persecution operation against the party members is underway. the turkish government's aggressive policy towards the syrian people and the imperialist intervention of the eu, the us and nato, especially with the recent decision of the european union, of 27 may 2013, to lift the arms embargo on syrian opposition, increase the people's concerns about the risk of a generalized imperialist war in the wider region. we demand that: • stop police violence and repression against protesters; all those arrested must be released immediately. • the responsible and moral perpetrators of attacks on demonstrators should be punished.
mr. president, instead of a clear apology for the unjustified police violence, prime minister erdogan organized counter-protests and ordered police yesterday to push back the protesters from taksim square. so it seems that he does not understand the seriousness of the situation and does not understand that, even if he wins the battle in taksim, the "war" for the trust of a significant part of the citizens will be lost. the crisis in turkey has political-religious characteristics and is related to the way of governing, the personal style of the prime minister, but also a misunderstanding of the concept of democracy. democracy is not just holding elections. when a leader, a party, an ideology, thinks that they can impose their worldview on everyone because they won an election, then democracy is in great danger. in a democracy, every opinion must be respected and the majority must respect the view of the minority. the country is being driven into a polarisation with uncontrollable consequences for the stability of the wider region. the myth of turkey as a model of democracy for the arab world is now being shattered. the socialist group has said this many times. a regime with the largest number of imprisoned journalists in the world is not a model of democracy. the restriction of free expression on the internet and the persecution of social network users in recent days have increased our concerns. we have no reason to celebrate the developments. turkey is an important country for stability in the middle east and it is important that it plays this role. but, lady anston, unfortunately your statements last sunday were below the circumstances, equating the perpetrator with the victim. we must stand firmly, council, parliament and commission, on the side of those who are fighting for democracy and human rights.
mr president, over the last 10 years the european union has shown itself very satisfied with the changes that have taken place in turkey, and indeed the attack on the military establishment and the attempt to bring about democratic changes have given us a great deal of satisfaction. but today we see islam being introduced through the back door as a principle and value of governing the country. the people who took to the streets and the protests, mr. president, are not with the kemalists, the corrupt establishment, or the current situation. it is with us, with us europeans and with european democracy. we must support them too, mr president. we will not be the ones to decide who will be the prime minister of turkey, but we must tell turkey that the caresses of europe will stop unless there is real freedom and democracy in that country.
mr president, a strong smell of authoritarianism and arrogant leadership is being emitted from turkey all these days. the functioning of democracy is becoming extremely problematic. it is therefore confirmed that turkey cannot be an example of democracy for the arab world. it is thus confirmed that it has a very long way to go on its way to europe. but this must not lead europe to turn its back on turkey. and that is because, as it has been shown these days, the most serious motive and the most serious guarantee of democracy for turkey is europe after all. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. finally, mrs. ashton, say something bold and do something meaningful.
mr president, seeing and following the enthusiasm and passion we are showing in condemning the events in turkey, with all due respect indeed for the freedom of rights, i would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we did the same in the case of egypt and tahrir square, and then we did not ask what happened. so, lady ashton, i would say that we should handle the matter of turkey with caution and prudence. it's a bomb, which if it explodes will have incalculable consequences for this region.
mr president, it is true that the creation of the foreign service has brought a lot of good things so far and i want to congratulate lady aston on her efforts, because this has not been an easy case. but, following the way in which the office has operated, i think it must be accepted that certain things must change, as parliament is proposing. the first is that the hierarchical structure must be better structured. it seems that there is an overload of senior officials and that there is often a concentration of efforts, not fully coordinated, between the european commission in general and the external action service. i have the impression, therefore, that together with an effort to have more women, who are unfortunately under-represented in this service, and with the establishment of a headquarters in brussels for security and defence, whether for military or civilian operations, the union's external action service will have to be much more effective and will be able to react much more quickly. of course, mr president, i repeat, we must recognize the efforts that have been made and the struggle that is being waged, and on the basis of these efforts we are calling for more substantial changes, such as those which will make the european external action service better coordinated and above all show results, because the union must acquire a brand name abroad which it does not yet have. these results are disproportionate to the substantial efforts made. so there is a need for greater promotion.
madam president, the arrangements proposed in the report are designed to upgrade the agency as a political military machine with greater firepower for the european union's imperialist interventions on an international scale. they are aimed at making the european union's foreign policy even more aggressive, a policy of permanent intervention by strengthening its military characteristics to carry out extensive military operations. the upgrading of the service is being promoted by measures such as: the establishment of a permanent operational headquarters for common security and defence policy operations, the participation of battle groups in eu interventions, the acceleration of financing and decision-making procedures, measures for a permanent structure for conducting military operations 'crisis management'. the establishment of a political council and measures to influence the policies of the member states are intended to ensure that the office can operate without control. the only purpose of the unrealized and hypocritical request for the european parliament to be informed and to be able to monitor the agency's activities is to give a democratic legitimacy to the eu and nato's military interventions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the joint debate on human rights, democracy, freedom of the press and media in the world on:- report by marietje schaake, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on freedom of the press and media in the world [2011/2081 (ini) ] (a7-0176/2013), and- report by laima liucija andrikienė, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the draft eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief [2013/82 (ini) ] (a7-0203/2013)
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, i welcome the reports by the two rapporteurs on important issues, pillars of democracy, namely the defence of human rights, freedom of religion and belief and freedom of the press and media throughout the world. i consider mr lambrianidis' appointment as human rights representative to be a success and, knowing his abilities, i expect a great deal from him. in her report, in which she lists countries where human rights are being violated, mrs schaake rightly points out that governments are primarily responsible for ensuring and protecting freedom of the press and the media, and, of course, primarily responsible for obstructing freedom of the press and the media. the blood of journalists is flowing in syria. the recent developments in turkey, a candidate country, have caused particular concern. we regret that the turkish government is moving towards the establishment of an islamic republic which is moving away from the standards of a modern state based on the rule of law. i wonder whether what we are seeing is consistent with the characteristics of a candidate country. i also regret to point out the persecution of christians. the european union is also committed to the development of the union's external relations, particularly in the regions of africa, asia and the middle east, and their situation is worsening as a result of the recent syrian crisis. the vatican reports that some 100,000 christians are killed for their faith each year worldwide. religious freedom is being undermined by intolerance and terrorism. i believe and suggest that discrimination against christians should be treated in the same way as anti-semitism and islamophobia.
madam president, the report on freedom of the press and the media in third countries states that 'the credibility of the european union on the international scene is only guaranteed when freedom of the press and the media is safeguarded within the union itself'. mrs. ashton, you are well aware of the facts. yesterday, the greek government, suddenly, in an unprecedented process, shut down public television and radio stations without any consultation, without any warning. the greek people have never seen such things, not even under the dictatorship of the colonels, and we are now taking lessons on democracy in third countries. what democratic process is followed? the procedure imposed by the troika? you are a member of the troika, you are vice-president of the commission and by these procedures a fast-truck democracy has been imposed on my country, a so-called government that obeys your orders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. my dear colleagues, do not be fooled. what happened with the memoranda in greece is happening all over europe. what is happening today with public television in greece will happen in your countries.
mr president, the greek government closed down last night, by an unacceptable legislative act, the greek public broadcaster, ert, simultaneously firing thousands of employees. this is a serious blow to the right to information, a blow to civil liberties. but the government also cut off the broadcast of the ert signal to prevent ert workers from reporting on developments. i would like to denounce the greek government and the multinational digital satellite company digea for cutting off the digital signal of the tv station 902.gr, which was broadcasting the programme of the ert workers. the scandal is even greater because the commission and the european council are hiding behind claims that the matter is supposedly the responsibility of the greek government, and that they respect the decisions and other similar ones we have heard today. the european union is not tired of talking about 'violation of human rights' and 'democratic principles' when it needs pretexts for intervening in the interests of the monopolies.
mr president, mr special representative, i would first of all like to welcome you here and express our pleasure at having you with us today. societies around the world face major challenges in protecting freedom of the press, a key element of democracy. there is no democracy when there is no freedom of the press, of expression, of image. the threats and violence against journalists have only one objective: to undermine pluralism and pluralism, and any country that wants to be called democratic must protect journalists in every way and ensure the appropriate legal framework so that criminal responsibility is assigned when there are violations. but it is impossible for me to continue to speak about freedom of the press in general in the world and to give lessons in the third world when in my own country, greece, we are experiencing unprecedented situations for a european country with the abolition of public radio and television. as of yesterday, greece, a member state of the european union, by government decision is the only european country without public radio and television. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the public broadcasters is not distorted, and that the information provided by the public broadcasters is not distorted. it is the only one that offers the objectivity, the diversity, the quality of the programmes without the stress of viewing and listening. i would like to add one more point. the isolated greek islands even had access to private channels through the public television and radio transmitters. at the moment, thousands of inhabitants of small greek islands are informed only via the internet. yesterday's events are in clear violation of the charter of fundamental social rights and the international labour organization's forecasts. the image that abruptly faded at 11 o'clock last night brings to mind dark pages of our history and does not fit a country that belongs to the european family. but above all, yesterday's inexplicable act is a blow to democracy, and that, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be tolerated.
mr president, there is no doubt that freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the information society are the greatest social revolution of the last century and, of course, of our time. i wanted to comment at length on what we were going to discuss but, having heard my colleagues on the subject of what happened in greece yesterday, i would like to make the following comment. mr president, this case is purely an administrative move, it does not represent a departure from the idea of public television, and the objective is twofold. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. very soon, a new draft law has already been published for consultation, the new body will be set up under an independent authority which will not allow anyone to do what has been done in the past and where, of course, the greek citizens have paid the bill. this is the cold truth about greek television, let's be patient and see that greece will not be the only country in europe that will not have public television, which we all want to have, but objective. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted by a large majority) )
answer to "blue card". the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the situation in our country is not easy. wages have been cut by about 50%. you realize that unemployment is very high, so it's not a sudden event in a democracy where everything is rosy and there's money and growth. we are talking about a country which is in absolute difficulty and which must overcome its problems, not only for greek reasons but also because it owes it as a member of the euro area.
the first item on the agenda is the recommendation by mr david martin, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the interim agreement in the run-up to the economic partnership agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and central africa, of the other part (14757/2012 - c7-0369/2012 - 2008/0139 ((nle)) (a7-0190/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 13 june 2013, at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr ivailo kalfin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2003/98/ec on the re-use of public sector information (com (2011) 0877 - c7-0502/2011 - 2011/0430 (cod)) (a7-0404/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 13 june 2013, at 12 noon.
the next item on the agenda is the report by mr filip kaczmarek, on behalf of the committee on development, on the millennium development goals - defining the framework beyond 2015 (2012/2289 (ini)) (a7-0165/2013).
mr deva, it is up to the speaker to give the answer that he chooses.
in writing. the proposal for a directive promotes the policy of 'open access' to public data in the digital age. this proposal increases transparency in the member states and at the same time the accountability of public authorities and their actions. for greece, which is underperforming in e-government, this report contains some useful suggestions and good practices that our country could adopt. at the same time, digitisation is also extending to the cultural spectrum, which is also of interest to greece. for example, in related amendments tabled in the report by the committee on culture and education, it is proposed to extend the digitisation of archives to libraries (including university libraries), museums and archives. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. two years from today (2015) marks the completion of the deadline for the binding targets set by the un in 2000 in the millennium declaration. despite improvements in people's general living conditions, poverty, hunger, inequality and insecurity affect large numbers of the world's population. it is estimated that 1.3 billion people still live in extreme poverty. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, aims to involve the eu more actively, both in assessing the implementation of the declaration to date and in preparing for the period after 2015. the eu pays great attention to the combination of poverty eradication and sustainable development. however, the eu's position on the new development framework should take into account the need for better financial management. this does not mean reducing humanitarian aid spending but, on the contrary, better coordination of developed countries to make the most of resources, helping to create strong and sustainable economic infrastructures for the countries receiving aid.
mr president, i refer to the agenda for wednesday. i refer to rule 110 of the rules of procedure. the closure of the public greek broadcaster is on wednesday's agenda. the agenda includes statements by the commission and the council. i see that the debate will not result in a resolution. my dear colleagues, the problem remains: the television and radio signals are not transmitted except with the help of the ebu. mr president, you have given a letter to the greek prime minister in which you refer to violations of community law. the commission has spoken and covered this action. the question put to the 2,600 people who were dismissed from ert and to the greek citizens is: 'what is the opinion, what is the decision, what is the position of the european parliament?' did we have a conversation? so please explain to me why you have followed this procedure, again, under rule 110 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, safety at sea is a fundamental and non-negotiable priority and one of the most important elements of maritime safety is effective port state control of ships. the very important maritime labour convention of 2006 which will come into force in august is thus strengthened. the agreement on the proposal for a directive on port state control of ships which we are called upon to adopt tomorrow in plenary ensures all the objectives and priorities we have set, without unnecessarily burdening the member states with a large increase in the number of inspections. it is a perfectly satisfactory compromise which we have reached after intensive negotiations with the council. it fully meets the european parliament's key priorities, while taking into account the sensitivities of all parties, without departing from the provisions of the international maritime labour convention. in particular, the text we are voting on tomorrow guarantees the protection of seafarers' rights and a level playing field for countries and shipowners who have undertaken to offer seafarers decent working and living conditions, thus protecting them from unfair competition from ships with a low level of safety. i would like to conclude by urging those member states which have not yet done so to ratify the maritime labour convention as soon as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the communist party of greece is opposed to the commission's directive and report because they constitute yet another bureaucratic mechanism which not only does not aim at protecting the rights of seafarers, the safety of human life at sea and the protection of the environment, but will instead be used to depress the price of labour to the lowest possible level, to maximise the profitability of shipowners and monopolies. the alleged control of compliance of ships with the provisions of the maritime labour convention of 2006 is the alibi given to the shipping capital for the most savage exploitation of the shipyard workers. the complaints procedures are a mockery and a challenge to the seafarers, at a time when the trade union social and political action of the seafarers is being persecuted by the shipowners and the bourgeois governments. in greece, the seamen are still under the shameful regime of political conscription. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. against this attack in greece, the bipartisan government of new democracy pasok is taking the lead, as have previous governments. the 2006 maritime labour convention codifies and limits to the minimum wage and labour rights of seafarers. with the implementation of the 2006 maritime labour convention, from august 2013, hundreds of thousands of seafarers will continue to work in galley conditions, with a minimum seaman's wage of $565, no public insurance pension rights, with exhaustive working hours and ... (the president interrupts)
mr president, commissioner, the maritime labour convention of 2006 is a milestone in the effort to curb some of the most damaging effects of globalisation. in recent decades, the shipping industry has been the driving force of the world economy, transporting 90% of world trade, but the transport project was achieved without ensuring basic working conditions for the 1.2 million seafarers and the result, among other things, is that the position of serious shipowners and flag states is undermined by widespread irresponsibility and community dumping. the integration of the convention into the port state control system of the european union will ensure better conditions for seafarers on ships calling at ports in the european union, irrespective of their nationality. in this way, against the backdrop of the tragic events of april in savar, bangladesh, it is once again clear that globalised labour can and must be subject to fair rules.
in writing. to achieve the zero road accident target, initiatives and investments are required in all aspects of road transport. the safety of the vehicles themselves is of course an important prerequisite, but it must be accompanied by other measures such as better driver training, safer infrastructure and roads, and of course the implementation of intelligent systems. the periodic vehicle inspection is regulated by directive 2009/40/ec, which came into force just four years ago. it would be legitimate to include in the scope of the legislation bicycles, which should be subject to compulsory control. on the other hand, the change in the frequency of checks for category m1, i.e. i.d.s, from biannual to annual, must be considered more thoroughly and clearly take into account the financial burden that would be imposed on eu citizens in the prolonged period of crisis that we are experiencing.
mr president, the figures speak for themselves and are a cause for great concern and concern. although they are well known, they are worth hearing once again: more than 30,000 people have been killed and nearly 1.5 million have been injured. in fact, of these, 250,000 were serious road accidents in the european union in 2011 alone. for every fatal accident, there are 4 accidents resulting in permanent disability and 10 resulting in serious injury. more than half of these injuries occur in urban areas. the social and economic cost of road traffic injuries amounts to 2% of the european union's gross national product, or eur 250 billion for 2012. from 2001 to 2010, the targeted actions proposed by the european commission have had positive results and we must acknowledge this. the number of road accident victims has decreased significantly in several countries. it is important and encouraging that in 2010 the european commission renewed its commitment to further reduce accidents by 50% by 2020. it is committed to developing a comprehensive strategy on issues such as the impact of conflict, strategic accident management, first aid and emergency services, and long-term rehabilitation processes. but more decisive european and national policies on road safety are needed. the loss of even one human life on the streets is not an acceptable possibility and we must use all appropriate means and all other technical means to succeed in meeting this great challenge to the european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, as the commission points out, we have the potential to drastically reduce the serious injuries that occur with alarming frequency. we have just heard some chilling figures on the urban areas of the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road network is not affected by the accident, and that the road network is not affected by the accident. road safety, which threatens millions of cyclists, cannot be disconnected from the decisions needed on infrastructure and road rules in europe's cities, whether it is cycling infrastructure, speed limits or the implementation of smart systems. it is time for the european union to intervene more effectively in urban mobility.
i have received a motion for a resolution on the situation in the middle east, and i should like to thank the president-in-office of the council, mr de gucht, for his excellent report. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 june 2013 at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the report by mr richard seeber, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on priority substances in the field of water policy (com (2011) 0876 c7-0026/2012 2011/0429 (cod)) (a7-0397/2012)
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, commissioner, we have asked for and achieved in this directive that medicines should be included in the watch list so that the public is aware of the concentrations of specific medicines and so that the commission is prepared to bring the matter back for discussion in the next review. we have decided to change and we are calling for a change in the way medicines are authorized, in order to take account of their impact on the environment. we have succeeded in having stricter limits for substances already classified as harmful. but it is a real shame for the council that it has really squandered an opportunity for europe to invest in getting out of the crisis, namely investing in water management infrastructure, by postponing the date of application of the new obligations on substances which have been shown to be dangerous and harmful to 2027. but in europe in general, water is the target. i have emailed you, colleagues, the letter from the european federation of public service unions, asking for your support by signing the call against the privatization of the water in thessaloniki. and, commissioner, a matter of direct concern to you: in the north pindus national park, in a natura area, a river is being promoted for diversion. the water framework directive management plans are promoting its legalization to be used to produce energy equivalent to five wind turbines. it's really a shame! destruction of a national forest through management plans! please look at it carefully.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. besides, what we see with austerity policy is that in areas that are small, public services are being abandoned and the population is being burdened, because they don't have access to health services, there are no good connections - there are islands that don't have regular connections - schools are being closed and public services are being withdrawn from nearby areas. so instead of reducing the disparity, of bringing europe closer together, the distance between regions is increasing, both because of the crisis and because of austerity policies. the commission should therefore consider whether there is a need for a specific policy for those areas which are currently suffering from a profound economic, social and ecological crisis, and it is important that the population which is being left behind by the basic and fundamental rights has access to health, education and a proper transport network.
mr president, commissioner, the external aviation policy, introduced in 2005, has benefited the union in recent years, with the agreement with the united states of america alone creating 80,000 new jobs. but this institutional framework has entered a period of stagnation awaiting ambitious political action and agreements, given, firstly, that union airlines are going through a prolonged period of crisis and therefore unable to exploit opportunities on the world market, especially in asia, and secondly, that agreements with neighbouring states such as ukraine, tunisia and lebanon, which can stimulate the european market, remain to be concluded, while the council has not yet given the commission a mandate for negotiations with turkey, armenia and libya. finally, i would add that the gulf companies, and not only them, continue to receive direct and indirect state funding and thus to be in unfair competition with european companies.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, the main cause of the greatest debt crisis the union has ever known and the consequent social scourge of unemployment, which is constantly expanding at a nightmarish pace, is that europe has lost its competitiveness. the emergence of new global players has displaced it from the vanguard of the global economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the shift towards a marine economy and rich marine resources is an ambitious, visionary but realistic proposal. it opens up prospects for broad cooperation between economic sectors not only in the coastal regions of the union of 28 member states, but throughout its territory. coastal and maritime tourism in all its thematic expressions, aquaculture, blue energy, marine biotechnology, marine mineral extraction and, through them, the strengthening of shipping and the european shipbuilding industry are the areas of blue growth that can increase the size of the maritime economy to eur 590 billion by 2020 and with appropriate training policies ensuring a mobile workforce with adequate skills and experience, total employment in blue growth could exceed an estimated 7 million jobs by 2020. local, regional, national and european authorities should create the necessary conditions for sustainable development, such as systems of maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management, upgrading infrastructure, access to professional skills, dissemination of information and best practices and, of course, ensuring adequate funding. in order for the blue growth sectors to develop and unleash their full potential contribution to the european economy, strategic planning at european union level is necessary in terms of coordination and cooperation between existing policies as well as in terms of the development of new initiatives and tools. of course, to achieve the maximum potential of blue growth, public and private actors must join forces and work within a single policy framework that takes account of the new priorities of the european union. at a time of cutbacks in public investment in the member states, it is imperative that development policies, and in particular high-cost projects such as transport, communication and energy infrastructure, ensure adequate funding during the 2014-2020 programming period and beyond. the available resources of european funds and financial mechanisms need to be channelled into blue economy projects which are sure to bring european added value. the primary prerequisite and key challenge is to ensure the full sustainability of blue development, i.e. that it does not harm the highly vulnerable marine environment and at the same time contributes to combating climate change. the peoples of europe have for the last nine thousand years been turning in an organized way to the sea in search of and securing a better future. we welcome the commission's communication on blue growth and ask you to speed up the procedures and take whatever action is necessary to support it. finally, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs from the bottom of my heart for the excellent cooperation they have given us and for all those who have worked on the final drafting of our report.
mr president, we do want to develop the blue economy, but it must also be greener. because certainly many professions depend on the sea, but we also often have pollution of the environment and degradation of marine biodiversity. we want a blue economy, which will strengthen and increase activities around the marine wealth, but which will also help to preserve this wealth in the long term, and which will help to promote social cohesion and new professions which very young people have studied but which are not being used in current policies. we also want proper maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management plans so that the blue economy really benefits the environment, employment and the economy.
the new cooperatives, mr president, we would say cooperatives which meet the seven basic principles, play a very important role in the economy, in social cohesion and in social and environmental responsibility. the countries in crisis are the ones that need the support of cooperatives most today, so that they can create new and sustainable economic activities and absorb the millions of unemployed in countries like greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my country, for example, in greece, an institutional framework was created, which changed very quickly before it was even implemented. the department responsible for promoting facilities for the development of social cooperatives was dissolved. we see that the cooperative banks are not being recapitalised and that they are facing very great difficulties in their survival and, whereas the troika should have met with them from the outset, it was only recently that it agreed to meet with representatives of the greek cooperative banks.
in writing. the agreement on the eu's long-term budget for 2014-2020 is not the most ideal. however, the substantial improvements made by parliament to the february summit proposal make the agreement acceptable. parliament's main demands to focus on growth and job creation, combat youth unemployment, strengthen research and innovation programmes and support small and mediumsized enterprises were largely met. we have also received guarantees that the total budget will be used to the maximum, that there will be more flexibility in payments and commitments and that the budget can be reviewed and revised in the meantime. we also received the commitment from governments that there will be an immediate agreement to disburse eur 7.3 billion to cover part of the outstanding accounts for 2013. the priority now is to prepare the new programmes in good time so that they can run as smoothly as possible from 1 january and contribute to efforts to overcome the crisis. let us not forget that the eu budget is the main community investment instrument, acting as a catalyst for economic growth, job creation and the achievement of social, economic and territorial cohesion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen and enforce roadworthiness tests on motor vehicles to improve road safety and environmental protection. the proposal improves the existing legislative framework by providing for more precise conditions for the revocation and cancellation of vehicle registration certificates. for example, vehicles which pose a direct risk to road safety are not allowed to circulate on the road network until they have successfully passed a new roadworthiness test. at the same time, red tape is being tackled more effectively, as the original registration of vehicles reclassified in another member state is now automatically cancelled, and new practices are being introduced in relation to electronic registration databases.
in writing. the intensification of checks on commercial vehicles is a priority in the effort to reduce road accidents and improve road safety. for greece, a country with an extensive rural and dangerous road network, further strengthening of these provisions is important and welcome. the present proposal for a directive, which i voted in favour of, introduces a number of important new provisions, such as technical roadside checks on light commercial vehicles, an increase in technical roadside checks by the member states each year and even more intensive checks on goods, an area in which our country has paid a heavy price in the past in terms of human and unfortunately children's lives, with the most tragic incident being the accident in tempe a few years ago. however, proper controls certainly require qualified and properly trained controllers, which is a point for which member states are responsible in view of the increasing complexity of control and the high requirements imposed by the new directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr danelli's report. marine spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management contribute to the coherent and efficient use of marine space. the importance of the commission developing programmes to promote coastal and maritime tourism, the fisheries and aquaculture sectors and to promote education and job creation in coastal, island and maritime areas are considered very important measures and should be strengthened.
in writing. blue growth is the maritime arm of the eu's europe 2020 anti-people strategy, so that capital can take advantage of the latest technological developments to exploit traditional and new marine resources, with major investments in shipping, ports, coastal shipping and transport networks, sea corridors, and the extraction of hydrocarbons and minerals from the ocean floor; profitability opportunities in shipbuilding and ship repair, renewable energy, offshore, wind and marine energy infrastructure; the intensification of fish farming; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. it promotes the further completion of the single market, especially in maritime transport, and the creation of free trade areas on the islands. it demands the complete abolition of "campotas", even more flexible labour relations without rights, flexibility and mobility, direct subordination of public structures, research and education, to the choices of the large tourist enterprises and shipowners. the report is in line with the aspirations of the greek bourgeoisie and the nd-pasok government for a so-called "european eez", by assigning the country's wealth-producing resources to monopolies and integrating the eez issue into the confrontations and rivalries of the major imperialist powers and emerging capitalist centres. the recommendation to create a 'european coastguard' is also moving in the same unacceptable direction.
in writing. the bioeconomy is a relatively new field of action for europe and initiatives in this direction are certainly encouraging. given the increasing demand for food and energy and the scarcity of global natural resources, the search for new forms of production and consumption, and early planning towards this end - despite the obstacles posed by the crisis - is imperative for europe. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, calls for europe to be vigilant and for the commission to take new and more thorough initiatives on how to strengthen the bioeconomy in the eu. it is noted that this sector is expected to be significantly strengthened in terms of community resources and investment in the near future and that the country should closely monitor the upcoming developments. proposals such as research and innovation programmes, support for industrial investment, technological infrastructure, scientific excellence, bio-based facilities and industries aimed at innovation and competitiveness are expected to be intensified, offering significant economic opportunities that our country should exploit in its effort to build a new production model and overcome the economic crisis.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank all the rapporteurs, all the shadow rapporteurs and in particular othmar karas, ramon tremosa, philippe lamberts and marisa matias for their work and for the excellent cooperation we have had, which has enabled us to overcome the difficulties and reach a good and comprehensive compromise; and when i say 'good and comprehensive compromise', i mean that we have managed to preserve the broad scope of the tax so that it covers all financial products, all institutions and all markets, because the broad scope of the tax so that it covers shares, bonds and derivatives in organised markets and otc is one of the keys, it is the key key i would say, to the successful implementation of the tax, so that there are no gaps, so that there are no substitution incentives, so that there is no unequal treatment between markets, products and institutions, so that there is a drastic reduction in the risks of migration and tax evasion. parliament supports the revised proposal submitted by the european commission for the application of the financial transaction tax by eleven member states under the enhanced cooperation procedure. we are pleased that you have incorporated our earlier proposal, commissioner, to apply the issuing country criterion in conjunction with the residence principle, but we insist that this should also apply to otc derivatives. in order to be even more effective in curbing tax evasion and tax avoidance, we are also re-introducing the proposal to apply the principle of ownership to the legal transfer of title, and we are also re-introducing the proposal to tax foreign exchange transactions, which was the basic idea behind the famous tobin tax. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the tax system, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on the taxation of capital. i am referring, as an example, to the lower rate for short-term maturity turnip transactions, which, in combination with the lower rate for pension funds until 2017, will facilitate the mild adjustment. we also agreed to a lower rate on government bonds again until 2017, taking into account the potential impact of the crisis. finally, recognising the importance of tax harmonisation in avoiding distortions in the single market, we propose single tax rates in the hope that this will set a precedent in tax matters. the commissioner, for three and a half years the european parliament has been taking a consistent and coherent position on the financial transaction tax because we believe that it ensures that the financial sector is fairly shared in the costs of the crisis, because it secures significant resources for both the national and the community budget, it opens the way for the same resources and, finally, because it discourages speculation and encourages the sector's shift towards the productive economy. i hope and we hope that the same consistent and coherent stance will be taken by the 11 member states which have committed themselves to moving forward with the implementation of the financial transaction tax and to reaching soon a strong and comprehensive agreement, which will allow the tax to be implemented at the beginning of 2014, proving that above any individual interest, of any sector, however powerful, is the common european interest, the interest of european citizens, who are bearing the enormous economic and social costs of the crisis.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i thank you all, ladies and gentlemen, for your speeches. i would like to make three points: first of all, we all remain committed to the ultimate objective of implementing the tax on a pan-european and global scale, and to achieve this we must ensure that this first regional tax is implemented as successfully as possible at the level of 11 member states, and successful implementation will be achieved if we ensure its broad scope, if we avoid horizontal exemptions and if we limit tax evasion. secondly, the financial transaction tax neither endangers pensions nor burdens european taxpayers; the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. the commission has also taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to vote in the elections to the european parliament. finally, i do not understand the concern of all those who are concerned about the impact, but who have chosen to stay out of the tax's scope, and i would like to ask: will the tax ultimately affect those who will implement it because it is poorly designed, or will it affect those who will not implement it, as they claim today? they have to choose. last but not least, on the impact it is said the financial transaction tax will have on the real economy. let me read you something which was written in 1936: it is usually agreed that casinos should, in the public interest, be inaccessible and expensive. and perhaps the same is true of stock exchanges. we didn't have over-the-counter at the time. the introduction of a financial transaction taxon all transactions might prove the most serviceable reform available with a view to mitigating the predominance of speculation over enterprise. john maynard keynes, interest and money, 1936.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, i shall devote my speech to an important amendment which we are proposing. today, almost all olaf investigations are based on complaints. the result: the limited resources available to the union in the fight against fraud are not going to where the problems are greatest but where the complaints are greatest. thus, in areas where reporting is a dangerous business (e.g. organised crime) or where fraud involving both the local administration and the local political system is taking place, not the slightest investigation is carried out. as long as the law of silence is observed in a sector or area, the omerta, as long as those involved in corruption and fraud or in its cover-up are paid well, no one bothers them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the programme of the lithuanian presidency of the council of the eu the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a sign of the intensification of the anti-people policy of the eu and the bourgeois governments in all aspects of the life of the working class and the popular strata, in order to maximize the profits of the monopolies. new cuts in wages and pensions, the collapse of collective agreements, the tightening of public social security, health, welfare and education systems, an even greater increase in unemployment, the spread of poverty and misery. on the other hand, the european banking union will be promoted, with a view to controlled destruction and greater concentration and centralisation of financial capital, the deepening of all the reactionary features of emu, the implementation of 'memoranda' in all the member states with 'enhanced economic governance' and the 'european semester'. with plenty of hot money from the looting of the people's incomes, the monopoly groups will be financed for investments in fast and highly profitable sectors such as "green technologies", energy, transport, activities across the spectrum of economic sectors related to shipping and the sea. investments on the ruins of workers' rights, with the price of labour demolished. the european union's imperialist policy will continue with even greater aggressiveness, with its open fronts in the southern mediterranean, the middle east and north africa at its core.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the cor aims to support workers made redundant, particularly in regions and sectors which are disadvantaged by the opening up of the global economy. the regulation provides that up to 0.35% of its annual amount may be allocated each year to technical assistance. the commission requested eur 750 000 for 2013 to cover activities related to the follow-up of applications submitted, the extension of the fund's website, the production of publications and audiovisual media, administrative and technical support in the member states and the preparation for the evaluation of the fund for the period 2007-2013. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight the added value of the egf as an instrument of eu social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. in addition, the support provided is a practical expression of eu solidarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the communicable diseases early warning and response system was launched in 1998 to prevent serious crossborder health threats, equipping the european commission with the logistical infrastructure needed to carry out its work. fifteen years later, in addition to the evaluation, the early warning system must also be modernised. this report proposes to extend risk assessment measures to all threats to health, whether of biological, chemical or environmental origin, while providing for the possibility of recognising a european 'public health emergency'. the report is of particular importance for greece, as it concerns diseases introduced into the eu through illegal immigration and poses a risk to public health.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it aims to improve the legal basis, particularly at the level of cooperation between states and effectiveness in relation to crossborder threats in the event of serious health threats.
in writing. the debate today and the report on hungary are hypocritical. the european parliament is not a political body, but a political body, and it is not a political body, but a political body. the european parliament is debating hungary, while much worse is happening in greece (acts of a legislative nature, ban on strikes and recruitment of strikers, closure of ert, threats against 902, etc.) and in other member states. the eu and the ep have not only remained silent, but have encouraged and supported the banning of the communist parties, the persecution of millions of workers in hungary and other former socialist countries, the criminalisation of communist ideology and the rehabilitation of nazis and their collaborators in a number of former socialist countries, now eu member states, including hungary. none of them says anything about the causes of the present situation in hungary, because it is their own work to restore the capitalist system, the spread of poverty and misery, the furious anti-communism, the blow of the gains of socialism and its destruction. we do not recognize the eu and the political staff of the monopolies as having the right to play the role of the champion of people's rights. it is a matter for the peoples, who, in order to conquer them, must first rid themselves of the power of the monopolies and the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution. the heavy rains and flood damage hit central europe hard. the resolution also stresses the need to release financial aid to provide aid and support through the structural funds for the reconstruction of the devastated areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the recent floods in the countries of central europe, the worst floods to have ever hit the region, causing loss of life and material damage with very serious economic impact. i would also like to express my solidarity with the citizens who have been affected by this immense disaster. this demonstrates the need to increase the capacity for prevention, for example by better monitoring of wastewater infrastructure. the rapid and efficient disbursement of financial resources following the submission of reconstruction plans by the national and regional authorities is also required. in this context, the solidarity fund, the eu's main instrument for solidarity, and whose success is beyond doubt, will play a key role. i strongly support any measure aimed at improving the mobilisation and implementation of the fund, such as the minimisation of red tape. the aim must be a more flexible and simplified fund, which will be easily and quickly mobilised and will enable the union to respond better and more effectively to major disasters, providing timely relief to citizens in need. this must be the essence of the solidarity which our union offers its citizens.
in writing. this own-initiative report examines the results of the high level expert group (hleg), set up by the commission in early 2012. although no new action is proposed - and this is not the purpose of the report - the hleg has identified some important issues with regard to the structure of the eu banking sector. for example, concrete examples and empirical evidence suggest that the financial crisis was caused by a combination of excessive risk-taking, excessive leverage, insufficient capital and liquidity requirements and excessive complexity of the banking system. the report, which i voted for, identifies security gaps and goes one step further, proposing to limit their connection with high-risk trading and to limit the bailout of banks with taxpayers' money. the hleg report therefore renews and strengthens our argument for banking reform at european level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which demonstrates the importance of protecting the eu's financial interests. i agree with the need to combat fraud in all areas of european budgetary expenditure. i would like to stress in particular the reduction in irregularities reported as fraud compared with the previous year in the fields of agriculture and cohesion policy. however, further simplification of the rules on public procurement and the management of the structural funds is deemed necessary in order to further reduce the risk of error. i also support tackling tax evasion and tax avoidance, particularly in view of the efforts to streamline the budget both at national and european level. in this context, i consider it necessary to improve the collection of vat, to address shortcomings in customs supervision and to combat cigarette smuggling. in addition, i believe that in order to improve the efficiency of olaf, which plays an important role in safeguarding the eu's financial interests, the relations between olaf and the supervisory committee need to be further improved. finally, i welcome the european commission's actions in the field of combating fraud and in particular the higher levels of cooperation with third countries in this field as well as in the field of recovery of pre-accession funds.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as i agree that the european commission should make further efforts to secure a positive statement of assurance from the court of auditors as well as support measures to improve the quality of financial management, which is becoming particularly important at this time, given the efforts to streamline the budget both at national and european level. we must not forget that, despite the commission's responsibility for implementing the european budget, the member states spend the bulk of it, so they are also responsible. in this context, the availability of reliable statistical data and in particular the simplification, improvement of the control and surveillance systems of the member states and the redesign of their programmes or systems of implementation, in particular in the context of the legislative proposals and programmes for the period after 2013, are considered necessary in order to ensure a more efficient management of community resources, to enhance their added value and to achieve growth. finally, i support the performance approach through the establishment of a performance-based budget, which, combined with the implementation of compliance checks, should help to reduce the costs of eu policies and maximise their benefits.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, the presidency is fully aware of the concerns which have been publicly expressed by various members of this house regarding the recent decision by the greek government to close the greek national broadcasting company. you have requested that the council participate in this debate, and the lithuanian presidency, representing the council, is ready to do so. however, the council has not discussed the issue which is the subject of this afternoon’s debate nor has it agreed any position on it. since i speak on behalf of the council, it follows that i am not in a position to make a substantive contribution to your discussions. indeed i would go further and say that it would not be appropriate for the representative of the council to take a view on an issue which is entirely an internal matter for the greek government and the citizens whom it represents. furthermore, this is a complex issue touching at the heart of national politics in greece. events have been developing rapidly over the last few days. there is very little clarity as to the current situation and even less as to the reasons for some of the decisions which have been taken. i am sure that you will understand why i cannot say more on this issue now. i speak as a presidency of the council and therefore in the name of all 28 member states. i will, however, follow this debate very closely and attentively. i can assure you that i will pay particular attention to the range of views and opinions which will doubtless be expressed here this afternoon.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission is well aware of the debate around the closure of the hellenic broadcasting corporation (the ert) which was announced by the greek authorities three weeks ago. let me clarify upfront that this is a decision which was taken in full autonomy by the greek authorities. the commission has already stated that, of course, it supports the role of public broadcasting as an integral part of european democracy. the commission seeks, within its areas of competence, to ensure respect for media pluralism, as it is a fundamental value enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and a pillar of democratic society. the commission will continue its assessment of the situation with regard to media pluralism in all member states. hence, while it cannot prescribe to member states how to organise their public service broadcasters, it attaches special importance to the role of the dual system of public service and commercial service broadcasters in preserving media pluralism and promoting european values in all economic circumstances. greece, like all european countries, needs media pluralism, media freedom and media quality. we therefore welcome the commitment of the authorities to relaunch a public broadcaster that fulfils its role in terms of media pluralism, media freedom and the expression of cultural diversity. it is obvious to all observers, however, that the new broadcaster must be more efficient and financially sustainable than its predecessor. this case must be seen in the broader context of the rationalisation of greek public administration – which is crucial. greece needs a more efficient and effective public administration that serves the general interest and contributes to the recovery of the economy. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that we fully support the significant efforts by the greek authorities to modernise the public sector, even though we are all aware that this implies very difficult decisions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, for many years greek public broadcasting has been the field of clientelist and party activity, particularly of the major greek parties, and this has continued during the last year under the present government. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what had no logic and no democratic legitimacy whatsoever is the forcible suspension of its functioning under reformist pretexts, in principle because before the forcible suspension of its functioning there was no real will or indication of reform by this government. on the contrary, a fortnight before the closure the government appointed the board of the public broadcaster for northern greece until listen! in 2017 and put there exclusively party officials. at the same time, it used anti-parliamentary practices, adopting legislative acts while parliament was open, without the constitutional conditions required by urgent and unforeseeable circumstances. the formal pretext was the provisions of a law passed in 2012. how unpredictable can a law be that was passed six months ago? as regards the budgetary cost, the sum of workers' compensation, severance pay and re-employment of the three quarters of those made redundant creates a budgetary loss for at least two years. note that in the new hires the twice as many laid-off from the private sector broadcasting media will be treated as children of a lesser god, since they will not be rationed. conclusion: reforms are not a sign of opportunity and it is unacceptable that such practices are being pursued in the name of the troika, the european commission and the european union as a whole.
question with a blue card. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. one comment first: never three weeks ago were there the hirings you mentioned; the commission has not yet taken any action on this matter by prime minister antonis samaras. it never happened. it's completely false what you said. second, you spoke of honesty. when mr hollande visited greece, when mrs merkel visited greece, when the government went to china with the prime minister himself, on very important issues of investment interest for the country, all these events were not covered by public radio and television, because there were strikes by trade union decisions. is this a true democracy? because you talked about honesty today.
question with a blue card. madam president, i do not want to be too forward, but there are some very serious things that are being said and we must respond to them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i ask you, ladies and gentlemen: do you know that in greece, according to the official announcement of the national broadcasting council, there are 103 local and regional stations operating today? do you know that even more is radio and certainly internet freedom? where do you see the lack of democracy? we are talking about upgrading the public broadcasting system. no one has ever said that public broadcasting is not a necessary pillar for freedom of expression in greece.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: dear colleagues, public broadcasting in greece is closed for the 23rd day. the commission has said from the outset that it is not my project, but a decision of the greek government. the commission has also made a statement - we heard it again today - that it understands these efforts to modernise the greek economy. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen: is it a modernisation of the greek economy to close down the public broadcaster of european citizens? is it modernisation to go black on the tv screen ? is it modernization to lay off 2,600 employees? is it modernization to burden the state budget? who 's the winner in this case ? the private channels and those who are waiting to plunder public property. who is the loser, commissioner, in this case? democracy is lost, freedom of the press is lost, culture is lost, the modern history of our country is lost, the workers are lost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you're equally accountable. the greek government says it has taken this action, the barbaric and coup d'état, because it has to make 4,000 redundancies to get the dose at the end of the year. today, therefore, you realize that it is not only the greek government that is responsible. the commission is also responsible for covering up this barbaric coup d'état, which is unprecedented in european history. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
question with a blue card. i am sorry to make this comment to my greek colleague, because he should know the history of the black man, as he said, on the screens. we need to clarify this, because there's been a lot of talk about black. black was not an option in this temporary shutdown. it could be that ert, not operating normally, has repeated older broadcasts. the black came because the workers didn't obey the ruling and wanted to pirate, themselves, to broadcast. we must clarify matters in a case that is not easy for colleagues to understand.
answer to a question with a blue card. i understood the interventions in english. where's the question? but in any case, as you have noticed, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate that is of course being held on greek data, but what we have just heard has nothing to do with reality. i want to tell you that the ert staff are running it all the time because the court's decision was that it must be restarted with a full schedule from the next moment. so it is very pretentious what is being said. the greek workers, with the help of the ebu and the help of the internet, broadcast a full programme. so the point is to have the greek government comply with the court decision and, if you will, comply with the amsterdam protocol. to comply with directives prohibiting collective redundancies and to restore legality. that's my answer. the greek colleagues know this very well. i think that in europe you also see the issue, that it has these dimensions.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, as is well known, the greek government has suddenly decided to suspend the activities of the public television. the result is that unfortunately some 2,700 workers in this industry have lost their jobs, which is sad given the current conditions of the greek labour market. i think that any loss of jobs must be a source of grief for the political leadership and a sense of complete failure. it is therefore sad, but also very dangerous, that in the euro zone today we have 12.5% unemployment and 26 million unemployed, with youth unemployment at over 50%. this is a stark demonstration of the failure of the policies being pursued in europe and imposed on the citizens by european decisions. i do not agree with mr šefčovič's view that the decision to temporarily close ert is entirely the work of the greek government. i am absolutely convinced that the greek government was led to this action by the demand of the troika for immediate or indirect redundancies of public sector employees. on the other hand, the greek government, and almost all the parties in the greek parliament, including the left, suggest that ert operated in an opaque, unbiased manner and outside the bounds of cost rationality. that's right. he finds me perfectly agreeable. but from that point onwards, until all staff are laid off, necessary and redundant, there is a huge difference. ert must be restored to working order immediately and please, mr šefčovič, get those troika people out of here! the troika today said that the average pension in greece is 915 euros, while in germany it is 830. i inform you that the average pension in greece is 523 euros and 371 euros is the pension that 33% of greek pensioners receive. we should collect these and not create such impressions in europe! (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question with a blue card. i would like to ask mr. salavrako: is it true that in the last two months before the ert shutdown, that is, in sixty days of operation, 41 days were ert closed because they were on strike? now that they're closed, they're now functioning as strikers or whatever, but the question to mr. salaveraco is: last two months before closing 41 days of strike. is that true?
answer to a question with a blue card. mrs. javela, i would like to answer the following: 41 days of strike, but it's a long time, it's over 30. what i have to say is that there is no problem of democracy in greece and what appears as a lack of democracy in greece is inaccurate. since 1974 all governments, socialist and non-socialist, have imposed democracy in greece. secondly, we do not leave the workers of ert in the hands of the extreme right or the extreme left. they are greek citizens, they must have jobs and we must support them. and third, we have to realize, i'll say it in unorthodox english: ...something is cooking and something is kicking. ... something cooks right and something kicks; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the debate we are having today is certainly a greek issue, as the president-in-office of the council has said, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is at the heart of the challenges we are facing together today. it is at the heart of the efforts made by the member states to consolidate public finances, to rationalise and make their public sector, which is usually the big patient, more competitive. this debate is useful because it provides information and can provide answers to questions that have been raised all along, but also to approaches that are, i would not say malicious, but are either simplified or suffer from correct information, such as those heard in relation to the staff of ert, recruitment and where they come from. what i want to stress here may sound like an oxymoron, but it's a fact: the ert did not close down in substance; the ert is now preparing to open, because what existed was not a public information service in the true sense of the term. firstly, it was a large public body, economically and administratively cumbersome and expensive, unmanageable. second, with the continuing strikes, it didn't provide coverage for weeks, sometimes months, it didn't always cover the big stories. i have personal experience of when, at the european council in december, i went from strasbourg to brussels to take part in a broadcast in brussels, on the ert which had moved there with its crew, and the greek technicians went on strike and lost everything. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and for the work he has done. we have reached the temporary halt because no government has been able to implement the restructuring it was attempting and rest assured that the current greek government is determined to honour its commitments to its partners in the recovery and to respect the sacrifices of the greek people. and of course the considerable part of the ert staff who will find their place in the new format that is being prepared will quickly write a new page in the greek news. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
question with a blue card. mrs cratza, you spoke of the need to reorganize the economy. can you tell us something very simple: what is the cost of workers' compensation, of lost insurance premiums, of contract clauses that will not be implemented? what's the cost? because you talk about sanitization, but if we put it down, the economic cost is greater. we have a deviation from common sense, we have a right-wing demonstration on behalf of the government. there is no plan. you take action without considering the costs and benefits to society.
answer to a question with a blue card. i think that mr arsène is going too far. it's a fact. no greek has any doubts. there may be different approaches to the course and the handling of the matter, but no greek doubts that the history of ert is about the consolidation, rationalization, quality and competitiveness of the public sector. and the new scheme is coming and then there will be its costing and it will really show that it is a good, studied new scheme, which will answer what the public information in greece is asking for: a new scheme with quality, with valuable staff, with control and management and sustainability. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
answer to a question with a blue card. i would like to say to mrs harms that, first of all, the objective remains the same. the government is determined to restructure and, in order to achieve this temporary closure, you will understand that it is determined to do everything possible to make ert a real public service broadcaster. to give you an idea of how far the program is going towards success, a special undersecretary has been appointed to handle this very matter. there's a special undersecretary to handle this matter, mrs. harms. well, rest assured that the workers will be compensated too - the compensation already discussed is considered by many to be generous - and the good and experienced ert staff, if any, will find their place in the new scheme. judge the shape when it's ready, and it will be ready very soon.
this government decision does not show a willingness to reform, but it does affect democratic norms and the right to information. is this practice accepted by the council and the commission in other countries? we're thinking, could germany shut down public television stations just by turning down the signal? it's too dangerous to justify, it's too dangerous hypocrisy; it's an act that shows no determination. what it shows is a forgery. the government has not even realized, even today, almost a month later, the legal, economic and social problems that have been created. is that how you turn off a tv? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. is that how it closes if someone goes on strike? that's a dangerous line of reasoning. if the government's proposals are applied generally, every strike-making body will have to be dissolved. what are we talking about here in the parliament of the republic? if the government wanted to clean up, it should have opened a dialogue. this is the only way. we must immediately turn on the tv, with the workers, with the infrastructure staff, and open a dialogue for reform. it really does, but it can't be done by the people who made the appointments and faxed the tv shows. it has to be done by society, by journalists, by workers. they should build a public television.
madam president, for the past three weeks the workers of ert have been waging a hard but fair struggle against the slander and undermining of the new democracy government and pasok, now, but also of the industrialists. what the government wants to build now, after the general outcry, is a lousy shop, a lousy radio and television station, which will be open to big multinational capital and offer trash. this will be the new public television promised by the pasok and new democracy governments. i would also like to take this opportunity to denounce the majority of the european parliament and most of the groups here, who have refused even today to have a resolution of parliament condemning these unacceptable actions of the greek government. i also denounce the commission and the president of the european parliament, who have not found a word to denounce the legislative acts implemented by the greek government, acts of a dictatorial nature, with which they recruit strikers, close public enterprises, send people to the streets. we will fight and we will win.
question with a blue card. mr. hajmarkakis, i listened to you very carefully. you were very aggressive and very categorical, and you even linked the history of ert with the policy of memoranda and austerity and the recession that the country is facing, but i myself remember you, when the policy of memoranda began, when the imposition of this harsh policy in greece began, to support it fervently, with all your strength. of course, there was another government then. much closer to your own views, perhaps. and i ask you: when have you ever been right ? when you were fully supportive of this policy imposed on the country? or now that, for whatever reason, you're saying the exact opposite?
question with a blue card. mr president, since you have referred to romanian television and we have also had a reference to italian public television, rai, and since there were reports yesterday on the expenses of journalists and technicians at the bbc, how would you see us asking for an audit of the finances of state or public broadcasters in europe, including romania?
madam president, i am sorry to see my colleagues from the new democracy forced to take on this unpleasant role of defending and deciding an act which cannot be justified and cannot be explained by credible arguments. i think it would be easier and more honest to simply confess 'yes, we made a mistake', because one thing is clear: that mr samaras personally chose an authoritarian act, which reminded all greeks inside and outside greece of other, dark times. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. mr samaras has christened reform authoritarianism and "deciding and ordering"; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. i will not personally abandon my faith in a public in greece that can function effectively for the common good. this requires that public bodies be staffed with meritocracy, that there be strict financial controls and accountability where it is needed. i hope that the new public service broadcaster will be set up with these very criteria in mind and that the recruitment of new staff will be carried out with a sense of merit. and i close with this note: the situation and level of the mass media in general in greece and especially their role in the political system and power system of the country is unprecedented for me. i think he is in fact largely responsible for the difficult situation in which the country has found itself. so if greece and greek society are to find a way out of the crisis and become a real and not just a fictitious success story, a bold and modern new legislative framework for smes as a whole is absolutely necessary.
madam president, greece, as you all know, has been facing an unprecedented crisis in recent years, and to get out of this crisis it needs changes, reforms, which in turn require decisions that cannot but be difficult. it can't be any other way. the ert has been a characteristic phenomenon of lack of transparency and an irrational waste of public money in the past years and decades. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to participate in the work of the european parliament. it is clear that the healthy parts of the ert will be able to be included in the new structure, in the new organisation that is being created with merit and full transparency. and let me be clear: the public broadcasting in greece is not just not being closed down, but is being reformed in terms of quality and function, it is acquiring real independence, it is being upgraded to the standards of large foreign broadcasting networks and with it democracy and pluralism in greece are being upgraded and strengthened, and an ally in this great reform effort is greek society itself and on the other side are all those who do not miss the opportunity to express their opposition to anything new, those who consider pathogenesis as a sacred possession, those who today slander and lie, as mr cohn-bendit said when he reported that three weeks before the decision to close the etr, some villagers, he says, were hired. let's hear who they were. but if he doesn't tell us, he has to recant. black is leaving ert, and that's the way it should be. the black will go out of our lives with the efforts of this government, with the reforms and changes that are needed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us put this matter in perspective. the violent closure of ert in greece was not a decision of the then three-party coalition government. it was a decision by prime minister samaras, leader of the new democracy, who, first, did not ask the other two partners who participated in the coalition government, second, did not consult the workers and, third, did not pass a law through the house. we are therefore talking about a direct blow to democracy, a direct blow that concerns not only greece but the whole of europe, which bases its birth and existence on democratic procedures. secondly, the ert is clearly in need of reorganization, improvement, rationalization and modernization. but the end does not justify the means. thirdly, we fail to see that mr samaras's action has created a major political crisis in the country, with the result that we have barely escaped the new national elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the reality and what is now being done is to try to get ert back on track on the basis of a plan proposed by pasok and at the moment consultation with the workers has begun.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, i think that vice-president reding is absolutely right when she says that what we have heard recently is a wake-up call for the whole of the european union and i hope for everyone who has some responsibility for these matters. the internet is going from being a tool in the service of democracy to being the greatest surveillance machine in human history, and that's a shame. we're in, if you'll allow me to call it that, the post-prism era, and up until now we knew that the price we paid for the free use of google, facebook, skype and all of that was the industrialized commercial exploitation of our online social contacts. but now it turns out the price may be even higher. let me be clear, mr president. the us authorities are required to explain to european citizens the prism and other such data collection programmes and the surveillance of diplomatic missions of european union member states and of the european union institutions themselves. i think it is a matter of credibility, it is a matter of trust between partners and it is a matter of mutual respect. if this information is true, the united states should immediately stop these practices. i have something else to say. i think it would be a great pity to see the united states of barack obama acquire a negative image internationally similar to that of the united states of george bush jr. it would be a great pity. a transatlantic trade and investment agreement between the european union and the united states, as well as other existing agreements, presupposes mutual trust and respect for fundamental rights, and let me be clear here too: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that i will hear from colleagues that i am risking millions of supposedly new jobs, and this at a very difficult economic time for the european union. here's my answer: no, we cannot, we cannot sacrifice everything on the altar of the economy, and we cannot sacrifice the fundamental rights of european citizens and our self-respect on the altar of the economy. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that our task in europe at this moment is to institute legal guarantees immediately for european citizens who want assurances that their personal data will not be misused. we therefore urgently need those data protection rules which will fully and not partially protect the fundamental rights of our citizens in the private and public sectors and that is exactly what we are doing now in the european parliament. we are working on the reform of the legal framework for the protection of personal data and i would like at this point to thank and congratulate mrs reding for all the work, support and cooperation she has shown. finally, let me say that my own political group... (parliament adopted the the president shall remove the speaker from office.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, in no way are the basic rights of our citizens negotiable. however, it is through surveillance programmes that we contribute to the security and well-being of our citizens. we all know in this room that nobody cares about our private information. security is the issue and security is something governments have to take care of. the usa has felt a tremendous impact from terrorism all over the world and a lot of member states have had terrorist attacks. i believe, madam commissioner, that it is high time we concluded the negotiations on the umbrella agreement. this would ensure that both eu and us citizens receive equal treatment and would restore citizens’ confidence that their rights are protected. furthermore, president obama has indicated that he is open to a debate on surviellance and privacy. and yesterday he insisted that the us was behaving no differently from other countries. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
answer to a question with a blue card. i do not think we are going back to the old days, mr president, when we accept that our state protects its citizens from an attack. suppose a crime is committed. we would say, "well, fortunately, there were surveillance cameras, and we saw who did it. does that not count for you? a law-abiding citizen has nothing to fear. we all know that surveillance has a list of keywords that are being monitored. everything else is off the grid.
mr. president, president obama said on the subject we're discussing today that it's impossible to have absolute security, absolute privacy and at the same time make everybody happy. i don't understand what the president of the united states of america means by that. as regards the pnr or swift agreements, which are linked to terrorist acts, we will of course understand. but how could this be related to the monitoring of the greek embassy in the united states or its mission to the united nations, as has been found, or even the commission building? it is important that europe boldly redefines its position in bilateral negotiations, both on transatlantic trade and on negotiations on the protection of personal data. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that cloud computing companies under american law, until two years ago - as the european authorities have now established - had access to data held by european governments. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms export directive is properly implemented. it is a matter of the utmost political importance, whether we are really going to be consistent with our commitments to protect human rights and to meet the millennium development goals. it is therefore a shame that the european people's party, with the more or less tacit support of the conservatives and liberals, has led to the rejection of the initiative report by mrs lösing in the committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the truth is that they do not want real control over arms exports, and here is where we differ. we insist and emphasize clearly and without any evasion the need to put an end to the hypocrisy on the part of the big arms manufacturers. transparency and practical application of the export ban to dictatorial states and in any case where there is a reasonable suspicion that they may be used to suppress freedoms and violate human rights. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
answer to a question with a blue card. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. well, everyone in here has a memory. we all remember exactly what happened. let's not bring up some issues that don't benefit anyone!
on behalf of the efd group. the european union has played a leading role in the control of arms exports both at regional and international level. as early as 2008, the council adopted the european union code of conduct on arms exports, setting out eight criteria for such exports. in recent years, efforts have been made to strengthen and harmonize the policies of the member states on arms exports. the recent events in the middle east and north africa are a crucial test for governments to demonstrate that they are serious about implementing a treaty that puts people and their safety first. we must be very careful about arming countries, especially with regard to syria, where the situation is deteriorating. the decisions to send arms there and elsewhere should be in accordance with the principles of the treaty. there is a significant risk that weapons provided to groups could be used to commit other acts. madam president, my dream was to have no guns. what i see is that wherever there is conflict, the most advanced weapons are available to the most extreme groups.
(the first words of the speech are not heard) the european union's policy on arms exports to third countries is directly linked to the imperialist strategy, interventions and wars of the european union and its member states' governments on an international scale to ensure the profitability and power of the monopolies. the intervention of the european union and its allies in syria is a typical example. according to a report yesterday by the british newspaper telegraph, shipments of 3.5 thousand tons of weapons have been transported through croatian ports and airports to the syrian rebels. thus, while the festivities for croatia's accession to the european union were taking place on 1 july 2013, the infrastructure and territory of this country were used to equip the syrian rebels. we ask the council and the commission: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms embargo on the rebels is lifted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the following item on the agenda is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the committee on the european emergency number 112 (the 'european emergency number 112'), which was tabled by mr martin lászló lászló and mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló on behalf of mr martin lászló
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report (a7-0212/2013) by mrs petra kammerevert, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on hybrid television (connected tv) (2012/2300(ini))
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
mr president, since yesterday we have all been following the news on the situation in egypt. this is not the point of my intervention: i know that we all wish violence to be avoided and the rights of the egyptian people to be fully respected. i would like to draw your attention to a dimension that, i believe, requires our full and direct involvement. according to the ngo human rights watch, during the last four days alone almost 100 women – protesters or journalists, locals or foreigners – have been raped or sexually assaulted in cairo. this is totally and completely intolerable. unfortunately, we do not have time for a proper debate or for a proper resolution, but i believe that as an institution and as a european union we have to be adamant. we have to make it absolutely clear that, no matter who is in charge in egypt, the eu will not establish proper and normal relations until we are sure that any kind of aggression against women is duly prosecuted and punished. (applause)
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, which is of interest to greece. the impact of the so-called austerity measures is particularly acute on vulnerable groups in particular. it is very important and we strongly support at european level the allocation of 20% of the european social fund funding both to the fight against poverty and to the creation of a new fund for the poor (with resources of eur 2 billion). the burden of the new financial instruments is proposed to be placed on the elderly and people with physical or learning disabilities, children and young people or other people with special needs, who are increasingly under pressure from the economic crisis. particular reference is also made to the issue of social responsibility in relation to universal access to healthcare, as the cost of participating in medical costs prevents early access to care, with the result that delay leads to more expensive and urgent care services in the future. similar weight is given to the child's development, health and educational opportunities. the european parliament hopes and contributes to the new multiannual financial framework of the eu (2014-2020) being characterised by a social dimension, responding as much as possible to the challenges posed by the economic crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the report recommends positive measures to improve health services in view of the ageing population, which requires the implementation of appropriate management. i also welcome the proposal to implement drastic measures, in the context of the fight against unemployment and the economic and financial crisis, to protect the young and the most vulnerable groups of the population.
in writing. the debate on hybrid tv is not just technical. it concerns pluralism and free expression, and therefore falls within the competence of the eu and competition law, since information is a very sensitive issue in the free market. hybrid television is a major technological step forward in the audiovisual media sector, as it receives and displays both traditional linear programming and material from the internet. the transition from conventional television to internet programming certainly requires technical adjustments. however, the increased cost of transition should not be at the expense of pluralism. the report, which i voted in favour of, aims to strike the right balance between market participants, in particular equipment manufacturers and content providers, in order to avoid giving individual content providers an unfair competitive advantage in the distribution of their content. it is also necessary to ensure that the equipment, platforms and gateways are created on the basis of an open and interoperable model, which is not based on ownership, which is also important for our country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 1 for 2013, a purely technical amending budget concerning expenditure relating to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. croatia has already joined the european union on 1 july and is the 28th member state of our union. we must therefore ensure that the money associated with its accession is given to croatia so that it can assume the obligations that go with it and enjoy the rights that come with membership of the union directly. i would therefore like to express my regret that it was possible to reach agreement on draft amending budget no 1 for 2013 in the council at the very last moment, as several member states were not prepared to honour their legal obligations and provide fresh money, as required by the treaty for the accession of any new member.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management relating to the mff to take account of the expenditure needs arising from the accession of croatia to the eu. although, whenever a new member state accedes, the appropriations for new expenditure are covered by increasing the mff ceilings, the council refused to do so and proposed that the commitment appropriations be reallocated to the various categories of the financial framework. parliament has repeatedly argued that the financing of croatian accession should be done by adjusting the mff, i.e. with fresh money, in order to send a strong message of welcome to croatia. the council's decision not only runs counter to the spirit of the unanimous decision taken at the signing of the accession treaty and the interinstitutional agreement, but it sets a dangerous precedent and sends the wrong political message, not only to croatia but also to the other candidate countries. however, the political importance and the legal urgency of securing funding for croatia force us to accept this position.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. it is important that the european parliament expresses its position on the important events taking place in egypt. egypt is a key country for developments in the wider region. the aim is to stabilize the situation and de-escalate the violence.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as we speak, big companies are buying people’s land throughout africa, buying the land where people cultivate the food that they need to eat. they are buying all this land thanks to corruption and weak governments. these companies pay back 3%, or even less, in taxes – that is nothing – and the result is famine and poverty. at the same time, the hike in prices caused by the use of food crops for the production of biofuels is leading to poverty, famine, unrest and emigration throughout the poorest parts of the world. at the same time, beautiful pristine forests – so necessary to the earth – are being chopped down so that the land may be used, illegally or legally, for the cultivation of these energy crops, leading to more emissions. what is the link between poverty, farming and increased emissions? the link is that the process is largely fuelled by our european policy, by more than eur 6 billion in indirect and direct subsidies from our european policy on biofuels. we made a mistake and we have to correct it. that is why the socialist group is supporting the 5.5% cap, supporting a 2.5% target for second generation biofuels and supporting the indirect land-use change (iluc) factor being taken into account from 2018 onwards in relation to both directives.
mr president, september is a month of starting and going back to school. however, fourteen-year-old hannah from england, fifteen-year-old bart from poland and a fourteen-year-old student from rome will not be returning to their school this year. all three committed suicide last august. three more tragic victims of cyberbullying. more and more children in europe are being trapped in the networks of the sick phenomenon of bullying. its effects are poisoning the lives of children, not only today, but also in their adult lives. offline or online, bullying and violence kill not only dreams and aspirations but children themselves. we must therefore do much more than we are doing today. parents, students, teachers, civil society are calling for greater vigilance, more information, more effective action. the european parliament has therefore supported and supports the establishment of a european day against bullying, calling on the commission to take more decisive and effective action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it strengthens the existing legal framework for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures to protect emerging marine organisms.
in writing. the protection of the rights of citizens governed by registered partnership agreements is a particular concern of community legislation. today, the number of registered partnerships in the eu is well over 200,000, which is why the regulatory framework, which concerns property relations, the applicable law and international jurisdiction, is of concern to an ever-increasing number of our fellow citizens. there are, in fact, enormous differences between national laws, so that the better informed partner (if the contract is concluded between nationals of different member states) may be interested in having recourse as soon as possible to a court which applies a law favourable to him. the present report, which i voted in favour of, is intended to alleviate these problems, given that the mobility of citizens in europe is increasing and, therefore, the number of stakeholders is widening. adopting a common approach to the problems of marriage and civil partnerships, the new framework proposes a system whereby registered partners will be able to choose the applicable law governing their property relations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. there are enormous differences between national laws, which are much wider in the case of registered partners than in the case of marriages. the rapporteur rightly recognises that there is a need to take measures to improve the legal position of the couples concerned. the proposals in its report make a positive contribution to this.
in writing. one in seven marriages in the eu involves citizens of more than one member state. therefore, issues arise regarding the property relations of the spouses and in the context of the management of property during a marriage. i voted in favour of this report because the rapporteur recognises that the legal situation needs and can be significantly improved for the spouses concerned and the introduction of 'simpler, clearer and more accessible procedures' in the area of civil law is a positive measure.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it suggests reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, accidents and land use, thereby reducing the impact of transport on climate change and helping to improve the health and quality of life of eu citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which is the result of the effort to ensure stronger protection of the rights of victims of crime and of suspects and accused persons. these rights concern access to translation and interpretation, legal advice and legal aid, communication with relatives, employers, consular authorities and others. this proposal establishes the basic principle that every suspect or accused person should have access to a lawyer as soon as possible and in a way that allows him or her to exercise effectively his or her right of defence. the report aims to ensure that appeals are effective. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has repeatedly called for the strengthening of the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, but this requires the mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal proceedings between member states, so that citizens can be sure that, during their movements, their rights are fully respected regardless of which member state they are in. however, this point, although it should be constantly emphasized, is beyond the aims and purposes of this report.
in writing. i voted against this proposal because it establishes the basic principle that every suspect or accused person should have access to a lawyer as soon as possible and in a way that allows him to exercise his right of defence effectively. furthermore, it is clarified that, in any event, those rights should be granted before the opening of the investigation procedure, during the performance of any procedural act or act of taking evidence, as well as in the case of deprivation of liberty. the proposal further defines the content of the right, stresses that meetings between the suspect or accused and the lawyer should be confidential, lists the derogations allowed from the general principles and provides for rules in case of waiver of this right.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it aims to strengthen and update the measures to combat market abuse and insider dealing.
in writing. the adoption of the new common fisheries policy requires adjustments to other relevant fisheries regulations in the various sea basins. i voted in favour of mr gróbarczyk's report because it calls on the commission to propose a new, substantially amended draft regulation on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea, adapted to the new eu common fisheries policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it stresses that the development of indigenous energy sources will lead to the emergence of new trading hubs in the eu and new markets for the direct distribution of gas and electricity, which presents a real opportunity for the eu and the member states to set their energy prices, inter alia, at regional and local level. it also recognises the european added value of better coordination and cooperation between member states' energy policies, in a spirit of solidarity, and the creation of efficient and secure cross-border energy systems, so as to create synergies through improved management of energy supply and demand, facilitated by smart technologies at the distribution system level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the eu faces serious challenges in achieving the target of reducing overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020, and in this context, policies to promote energy efficiency could and should play a more important role. improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for european competitiveness and are a win-win option in the fight against climate change. investments in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as reducing costs, creating jobs and growth opportunities, but can also encourage the transition to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this excellent report which aims to contribute to the debate on the importance of energy efficiency by assessing the results of cohesion policy measures targeting this area and presenting a series of recommendations to enhance the impact of the measures in the next programming period. the report also attempts to clarify whether the objectives of cohesion policy at european, national and regional level are compatible with energy efficiency objectives. it is a fact that cohesion policy is one of the most important sources of support for meeting the eu's energy efficiency targets. the commission has proposed, for the next programming period, to allocate almost twice as much of the budget for this policy to climate-related expenditure, including energy efficiency. it is also important that in view of the new programming period ending in 2020, all necessary measures should be taken to ensure that the eu 2020 targets are met and that cohesion policy measures on energy efficiency have a significant potential to meet those targets.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it aims to promote the development of a new community strategy in the field of fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basin, in order to make a substantial contribution to the development of sustainable activities with a positive impact on coastal communities and the respective inland areas.
in writing. the european union is the only organisation in the world with an official multilingualism policy with 23 official languages, soon to be 24. i voted in favour of this report because the measures it proposes are considered positive in terms of improving the right to multilingualism and making more efficient use of available resources based on the real needs of users.
in writing. i voted in favour of the s&d alternative resolution which addresses issues such as the general framework for interpretation applicable in the ep, the recent efficiency gains partly derived from the agreement on the 2012 ep budget, which required cuts of €10 million in the budget for interpretation, and the measures to be taken in the future, notably through the implementation of 'interpretation on demand', the reduction of late cancellations and the updating of the 2005 court of auditors report on interpretation expenditure. in the general context of budgetary constraints at national and european level, improvements in efficiency in the field of interpretation have succeeded in generating considerable savings in parliament's budget. however, these cuts should in no way compromise the quality of interpretation and affect the right of members to use the language of their choice. finally, it should be stressed that live webcasting of parliament's meetings is an important part of transparency and citizens' contact with our institution. this is why a high level of interpretation in all the official languages of the eu is essential.
in writing. the committee on culture and education, in its opinion on this report, in which we tabled proposals to this effect, stresses the need to protect minors by applying, in all member states, strict and reliable standards for verifying age and identity, and believes that effective prevention and protection measures should be imposed for vulnerable consumers, such as the application of strict deposit limits and limits on loss of profits that can be set by the player himself. in addition, an adequate framework for the gambling market requires the existence of national regulatory bodies responsible for licensing gambling and helping to combat both illegal gambling activities and corruption in sport. the final text of the report largely satisfies our proposals and i therefore voted in favour of the own-initiative report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it represents a step towards ensuring that consumers have access to safe and properly regulated online services. i also believe that effective regulation of the online gambling sector should, in particular, exclude risks of gambling addiction and ensure that gambling is appropriate, fair, reliable and transparent.
in writing. draft amending budget (dab) no 2 of 2013 concerns the increase of payment appropriations to allow the commission to pay the outstanding 2012 accounts in all policy areas of the eu budget, in particular under the structural funds and the cohesion fund, which could not be paid on time due to the lack of sufficient payment appropriations in the 2012 budget. in the context of the negotiations on the mff 2014-2020, the presidents of the european parliament, the commission and the council agreed that the council should release the first instalment of the mff 2/2013 of eur 7,3 billion and that the commission should submit an additional mff for 2013 in early autumn to avoid any shortfall in payments by the end of the year. the european parliament has repeatedly made it clear that it will not allow a structural deficit in the eu budget at the end of 2013 to be carried over and burden the new financial period. it therefore awaits the commission's proposal for a new mff and recalls the council's political commitment to decide on this new amending budget without delay.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i would first of all like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, my colleagues from the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on regional development for their opinions, and the council and the commission for all the cooperation we have had, which ultimately led to the unanimous adoption of this report by the committee on culture and education last june. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the europeans who have reaped the greatest share of prosperity and development, who have seen europe transformed after the wars from a geographical space into a political entity, who made may '68, who demanded that power be clothed in imagination, who have known the most effective welfare state in world history. they are the ones who are now at the helm of political, economic, social and productive developments in europe. so how do all these people imagine the future for their children and grandchildren? how do they pass on to future generations the unprecedented prosperity they have experienced? how do they feel when they see the ghosts of extremism, which they themselves had only known as bad memories of their parents, haunting europe again? the answer, of course, for the elderly is that we need a comprehensive european strategy for our young people today. and indeed, for the first time, immediately after the treaty of lisbon, we adopted a strategy for young people at european level, and now, some three years later, we are called upon to evaluate the first cycle of this strategy. it is true that the european union's powers in youth matters remain limited. but that doesn't mean they're not critical. it's not! the european union today has a number of important instruments to support young people. it is not just the targeted programmes we all know about for mobility and training, but also the initiatives that are being taken. i refer to the debate which took place at the extraordinary council last summer on the problems of our young people. i refer to the statements made by the president of the commission last time on the 'opportunities for young people' initiative. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we all realise that the results are still not satisfactory. the european union must intervene decisively, for example, when its structural funds for education, employment and training are only partially used. the council and the commission must monitor more effectively the facilitation of the transfer of resources towards the empowerment of young people. we must stand up and resist when, while calling for greater spending and emphasis on education, innovation and youth entrepreneurship, we have often seen in recent years serious budget cuts in this area by a significant number of member states. we must reverse the current reality that excessive unemployment in some member states is forcing young people to emigrate, leading to the loss of a country's most productive potential in what has become known as 'brain drain'. the fact that several billion of the community funds for the period up to 2013 have remained unused to date cannot satisfy us. the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the taking-up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and investment firms is a good example of this. it is time to discuss even bolder policies, such as tax breaks and incentives for employers to encourage young people to enter the labour market. we must consider the possibility of using european resources to ensure that the unemployed can travel free of charge on public transport and fight against red tape so that it does not even exist as a concept when a young person is trying to realize his business idea. it is good that the member states have started and are implementing our new tool: the 'youth guarantees'. but that's not enough. in our reports we have tried to record parliament's views on what is lacking, what should be done with specific proposals, and i invite you to study them all and try to implement them. we keep track of where we're lagging, what we're doing right and what we're not. in our view, the key principles for the next period, the titles of this strategy, can be summed up in the words: education, employment, innovation, entrepreneurship, finance, exploitation of new technologies, participation. we believe that the role of our parliament should be enhanced in this debate. the implementation of the youth strategy cannot be discussed every three years or every two years when the time comes for the evaluation. the situation is changing so fast that we simply cannot afford it. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. and we must certainly include, even more actively, all those who, along with the fight for work, for education, for progress, are also fighting for equal treatment, for independent living. i would like to point out that the 'freedom drive' conference taking place in strasbourg these days is attended by many children, including a greek delegation of 24 members. youth who give us courage and strength, who remind us that opportunity is for everyone, without exception. the problems of young people in one country are problems for the whole of europe. it is not just a matter of deepening and consolidating, it is primarily a matter of perspective and vision. no corner of europe can feel comfortable about our common future when the spanish youth has lost faith in tomorrow or when six out of ten greek young people lack the courage to dream. it is true that today imagination has been lost, europe is following the developments without having succeeded so far, despite the efforts, in reversing the situation. and a dynamic youth strategy is the weapon to turn this around. the dynamic application and implementation of this is the imagination that is lacking today.
madam president, i think that the work done by mr papanicolaou and mrs skrzydlewska is excellent. but i'm afraid we're having a discussion of good intentions and nice words for the young. at a time when the number of young unemployed in europe exceeds 14 million and the rate in greece and spain is over 55%, we are going to offer a grant of 8 million euros. it's about charity, and we don't solve the problem with charity. the problem will be solved by work, and to open up work, madam president, we must change policy. we must have a policy of investment in europe, not a policy of contraction. "give money to the men and women of europe!" we must realize that and we cannot come here and make fun of ourselves with nice speeches for the young. the young people of europe do not need the 8 million, they give it back to you. the young people of europe are asking for jobs, and we are not giving them jobs when we do not help businesses to grow and when we do nothing to be able to re-establish this ageing population of europe which will be its big problem in 2030, madam president, and ladies and gentlemen. we're 8% of the population today, 30% of global gdp, and we'll be 4% in 2030, and we don't know how much less of global gdp. we're getting poorer, and instead of facing our poverty, we're making wishes. i'm really sorry about that.
madam president, we are having another debate on youth unemployment. many words, many positive plans, many thoughts, but in practice nothing. the only tool we have at the moment is the famous youth guarantee. but as my colleagues have rightly said, the youth guarantee is a key that opens a door. the point is that youth should not be left alone at the door or risk going out again. we want specific legislative proposals, we want specific funds and we want commitments but, in fact, to be honest with each other, all of us in this room - and especially to be honest with young people looking them in the eye - we know that the answer to unemployment is one word: is the word "growth". if there is no growth, no investment, no jobs, unemployment will be presented as a monster that will frighten the young generation and europe.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i thank all my colleagues for their excellent speeches and for their participation in today's debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the future of europe is the future of the young, there is no doubt about that. i would like to thank the commission in particular for putting commissioner andor at the beginning and end of the debate, and i would ask that in the next debate on such matters we have commissioners for other areas than employment. it is clear that youth issues affect all political horizons. youth policy is not a vertical policy in isolation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have not had the representatives of the member states to explain to us what has gone wrong and we have not had better results so far and why we have not been able to make the best use of all these tools: all these communications that are being made, the funding that is not enough - but there is funding - and the european programmes. i am particularly pleased to see many young people in our theatres today, mr president. i would like to highlight the presence of 11 young people with severe disabilities who have come from greece, facing many difficulties, but who have managed to get here and inspire us, give us the courage to continue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's citizenship, and that the european union is not forced to take action against the citizens of the union. europe and the opportunities we want to create are not just a right for young people, they are a duty and an obligation for all of us.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs corazza bildt, for her work. however, there are some points to be noted. the first point is that we have worked well and made very hard efforts to be able to find a common ground. we've succeeded to a point. the result was that the socialists made their contribution in four areas. in particular, it became clear that the reference to growth of up to 2,6% over a period of five to ten years is a very ambitious formulation with considerable difficulties in implementation, because it does not take account of the economic conditions prevailing at the moment. secondly, we have made it clear that we cannot speak of an interpretation of the directive that goes beyond the letter. we have stressed that, as regards social services, account should be taken of the specific circumstances of each member state. fourthly, we have balanced the excessive criticism of the report on national regulations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the progress made in the negotiations. it will be for the good not of parliament, not of europe, but of the citizens and workers of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 september 2013 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the report by constance le grip, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the union customs code (recast) (com (2012) 0064 - c7-0045/2012 - 2012/0027 (cod)) (a7-0006/2013).
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, this debate on the modernisation of the customs code is a very good moment for the european parliament. we have all worked very hard, but especially hard has been worked by mrs le grip, who has given us an excellent basic text, and especially by the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, mr harbour, who has conducted with great skill the tripartite dialogue which has resulted in this extremely balanced legislation which benefits the citizens of europe. it is very important that the citizens of europe understand that this very technical legislation is very beneficial to them. this is in the interests of business, and in a time of crisis, when we must promote and protect it in the best possible way. in this time of crisis, this legislation is benefiting the public, especially now that the trafficking of dangerous materials is extremely difficult to detect. we have also ensured that there are no inequalities in this legislation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the customs authorities of the member states are able to take account of the needs of the community and its citizens. but the countries which have already made progress can also continue their way and create good practices, good data, which other countries can imitate. i think it is a really great moment for parliament and it will help to achieve what we all say and believe is needed, the establishment of the single market.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 september 2013 at 12 noon.
in writing. the proposal on the conditions determining the preferential origin of products, on the basis of which the preferential tariff measures are established, is extremely positive. it states that in order to be eligible for preferential importation into the eu, a product must either have been produced entirely in the country of origin or have undergone significant processing or working resulting in the manufacture of a new product. it also expressly incorporates in the basic legislative act the criteria for determining a product as having preferential origin. the proposal is an important step towards eliminating unfair competition, inter alia, between fresh agricultural products from third countries and their eu counterparts. i would remind you that fresh agricultural products from third countries, with low production costs, were imported into the eu and after a minimal treatment that did not alter the characteristics or the specific texture of the product, were placed on the european market as eu products.
in writing. today's speech by the president of the european commission, expresses the determination of the monopolies and their political staff to continue with the same vigour their anti-people attack against workers, in all eu member states. it is true, as the president of the commission has said, that in recent years the eu, together with the european parliament and the civil governments of the member states, has achieved a great deal. i did. they have supported and secured the profitability of capital by drastically reducing the price of labour in all eu member states. the commission president referred to these "successes" for the capital when he congratulated the nd-pasok capital co-government (as well as the previous ones) on the "impressive reforms" they had carried out in greece "over the last three years". behind the propaganda injections of optimism ahead of the european elections, there is the concern of the political staff of the monopolies about the bankruptcy of the anti-people eu policy in the popular consciousness. the peoples must reject the tragic present and the nightmarish future that the union of monopolies holds for them. their hope lies in the dismantling of the eu, the untying of the bonds of the wolf alliance, the building of the social alliance, to transfer power from the monopolies to the working class. "
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my group in the conference of presidents had proposed that this matter be put to the vote after discussion. the matter, as you know, is very serious. as the author of the committee's opinion, i would point out that, according to our data, 85% of the reports relate to the issue under discussion, namely the adverse environmental impact of public and private projects. the committee on petitions has worked very seriously and would like to hear its views. but unfortunately the subject was raised without the debate. i therefore propose, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that if there is to be a debate to hear the commission's opinion and to enable parliament to take a responsible position on very critical matters, on which i know full well that pressure is being exerted in one direction or another, i propose that the matter be discussed in the october partsession by debate and vote, provided that there is a substantive debate. i've given you the reasons.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that every language, including endangered languages, reflects a historical, social and cultural knowledge, abilities and a way of thinking and creating that are part of the richness and diversity of the european union and the basis of european identity. therefore, linguistic diversity and the presence of endangered languages in a country should be considered an asset rather than a burden and as such should be supported and promoted rather than as a tool for promoting political, ethnic or territorial aspirations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it strengthens the role of the european parliament in the recruitment process for managers in the european environment agency. it is rightly proposed that the procedure for appointing the eea executive director should be aligned with the procedures applicable to the executive directors of other bodies falling within the remit of the envi committee.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget (dab) no 2 of 2013 to increase payment appropriations to enable the commission to pay the outstanding 2012 accounts in all policy areas of the eu budget, in particular under the structural funds and the cohesion fund, which could not be paid on time due to the lack of sufficient payment appropriations in the 2012 budget. after several rounds of intensive negotiations, following the meeting of the presidents of the three institutions, the council agreed to release the first tranche of the 2013 mff 2 of eur 7,3 billion and to submit an additional mff for 2013 by the commission in early autumn to avoid any shortfall in payments by the end of the year. we, as the european parliament, have made it clear that the eu should not end up with a structural deficit in its budget at the end of 2013, which will be carried over to the new financial period. we therefore await the commission's proposal for a new cfsp and recall that the council has given a political commitment to decide on this new corrective budget without delay.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget (dab) no 3 of 2013 concerning the entry in the 2013 eu budget of the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. budget execution for 2012 showed a historically low surplus of eur 1,023 billion, which is therefore entered as revenue in the 2013 budget and will correspondingly reduce the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget. i can only emphasize the paradox of the matter, namely that on the one hand there is a payment deficit in the eu budget and the commission is having difficulty paying its bills and, on the other hand, any surplus which has arisen from the implementation of last year's budget, instead of going to the budget financing to cover the deficit, is being returned to the member states. however, the european parliament accepts this approach as the adoption of fp3/2013 will reduce the share of the member states' gni contribution to the eu budget and partially offset their contribution to the financing of fp2/2013.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report and welcome the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for floods due to the heavy rains which in autumn 2012 caused damage to buildings, water and sewerage infrastructure, businesses, agricultural land and forests. the authorities of slovenia, croatia and austria estimate that the total direct losses amount to eur 359,535 million for slovenia, eur 11,463 million for croatia and eur 9,6 million for austria. the priority now is to restore as soon as possible normal living conditions for the people and to restore economic activity in the affected areas. the solidarity fund has once again demonstrated its importance in responding to major natural disasters by providing financial assistance to the affected states. however, i cannot help but regret that it took almost a year to complete the process of mobilising the fund. the three institutions should therefore work to make the fund's interventions faster and more flexible. this will ensure that the real added value of the instrument is maintained.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget (dab) no 5/2013 to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in response to the heavy rainfall and the ensuing disasters caused by the floods that hit slovenia, croatia and austria in autumn 2012. it is positive that the council has confirmed the commission's proposal without amendments, thus ensuring that fp5 will be financed with fresh money. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. finally, it is important to stress the need for the timely release of financial assistance through the solidarity fund to the countries affected by this natural disaster. it is therefore regrettable that the council has once again decided not to limit, for reasons of urgency, the eight weeks for informing the national parliaments before adopting its position on this amending budget, as provided for in article 4 of protocol 1 to the treaty.
in writing. the report and the directive, which are designed to be environmentally friendly, are once again masking the competition between the eu monopolies for their share of the eu's energy pie and the related subsidies from the community funds. the eu sees the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as another opportunity for 'green' business to tap capital overhangs in areas where it sees a comparative advantage over its competitors. the report and the amendments concern the parts of the energy sector that will get a bigger piece of the pie, and those that will limit the loss of profits from the policy change. the compromise of the report, which maintains the production of biofuels by reducing their share, does not solve the problem but, on the contrary, perpetuates it, it is a temporary balance between monopoly shares with no connection to the people's interests and the protection of the environment. the question of the two paths of development and power is also raised here, so that proposals which are generally sound from a scientific and technical point of view, for example, for the production of zero-emission biofuels or the improvement of energy efficiency or the use of renewable sources in the whole energy mix, acquire a people-friendly content and do not constitute a means of increasing monopoly profitability at the expense of the people and the environment.
in writing. the present report, which i voted in favour of, focuses on achieving the pre-defined european environmental protection targets and, of course, on increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total fuel demand and consumption in the eu. this debate is of interest to greece given the country's investments, especially in solar energy. it is noted that the renewable energy directive sets the target of increasing the share of renewable energy in total eu energy consumption to 20% by 2020, and the corresponding share of energy in transport to 10%, targets which greece appears to be meeting. however, this report also focuses on second generation renewable energy sources, and in particular biofuels, proposing solutions to avoid repeating the mistakes made with first generation renewable sources, such as issues related to the use of these forms of energy. for example, the use of forest biomass requires particular attention as scientific studies currently question the greenhouse gas emission reductions achieved by the use of wood for energy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as i agree with the recasting of the eu customs code (ccu). the customs union is an essential element for the functioning of the single market and the smooth functioning of the latter can only be ensured if the common modernised customs rules and systems are uniformly and consistently applied.
in writing. i voted against the proposal as it is an important tool for framing and evaluating rural policies, since data on income, inputs and outputs of a representative sample of eu agricultural enterprises are collected each year.
in writing. the report is a response to the commission's proposal to amend the wording of technical characteristics relating to product descriptions. the european parliament finds that this explicit delegation of power to amend characteristics affecting product descriptions, definitions or names goes beyond the scope of delegated acts under article 290 of the treaty, which limits the delegation of power only to supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of a legislative act. the report therefore proposes that the commission's powers should be limited to certain directives (in particular to technical elements affecting product descriptions, definitions, names or sales descriptions), a position with which i agree and for which reason i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the kke voted against the report 'implementation of the eu youth strategy 2010-2012' (a7-0238/2013) and the report 'combating youth unemployment: possible solutions' (a7-0275/2013) because they aim to manipulate young consciences to prevent social explosions from the accumulated anger generated by anti-people policy and to form a generation of modern slaves, without rights, in the grip of the most cruel exploitation. the reports propose measures to recycle unemployment along four lines: (a) false training and linking education to the market to serve the needs of the capital (b) hot money to companies for hiring young workers, with subsidies - exemptions from insurance contributions, wage subsidies, etc. (c) strengthening monopolies with a full-time workforce of young people, on hunger wages and without rights, with the so-called apprenticeship, training and volunteering programmes (d) roaming young people across the length and breadth of the eu, as cheap and flexible employables. it is proposed that a 'european volunteer corps' be set up of young people under 30 years of age, who will travel from one eu country to another to offer free work to businesses in the name of gaining experience!!
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it seeks to highlight, propose and help find appropriate solutions to the issues which are the biggest challenges facing the young generation today. the main objective remains to strengthen the policies implemented by the member states in order to achieve, together with their objectives, the best possible results. in addition, the report highlights issues not covered by the current eu youth strategy. for example, the role of new technologies and social media can neither be ignored nor marginalized, because their dominance in every aspect of young people's lives (from employment and participation in society to entertainment and expression) is increasing at an alarming rate today. in addition, the impact of the crisis on young people should be tackled in the most effective way, as youth unemployment has risen to unacceptable levels, particularly in the south of the eu: the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of the public procurement rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as actions to combat youth unemployment should be aligned with those to boost the general economic recovery and reforms in employment policy. initiatives are needed to support entrepreneurship, to maintain as many of the jobs already in existence as possible, and actions should be taken to encourage entrepreneurs to create new jobs. the real improvement of the situation of young people depends to a large extent on state support, on strengthening cooperation between public employment services, providers of vocational guidance services, educational institutions and youth support services, together with the active involvement of the social partners and youth representatives or youth organisations.
mr president, on 21 august a crime against humanity was committed before our eyes: the use of chemical weapons against civilians, an act which - wherever it originated - constitutes a flagrant violation of international law. the crisis in syria goes far beyond the level of a local conflict, with the greatest instability at stake in an already troubled region like the middle east. is there a responsibility of the international community towards what is happening in syria? i'm sure you do. but first, there's no clear evidence as to who carried out the attack. secondly, there is no clear military target for a possible intervention. thirdly, there is no clear ally for the forces wishing to intervene. the opposition is divided and infiltrated by al qaeda and other extremist islamic organizations. fourthly, an intervention would create a new wave of refugees in addition to the two million who have already fled the country. and fifthly, there is no legal basis because we have neither a security council resolution nor a regional organization. it is no coincidence that european public opinion is against a military attack on syria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the russian initiative is precisely the basis for all the parties concerned and the permanent members of the security council to work towards the convening of the geneva ii conference. the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation of refugees and internally displaced persons is not exacerbated by the current situation, which is uncontrollable and which must be addressed as a matter of priority. humanitarian corridors must be established immediately. finally, at european level, there must be a plan for the distribution of syrian refugees coming to europe so that the countries bordering the union are not alone in managing the migration flows.
mr president, the conflict in syria, which we are watching with horror, is giving both sides the opportunity to take actions that are out of line. there is no doubt that chemical weapons were used, but in the region they have been used again since iraq in 1988 in the war against iran, because chemical weapons are, after all, the weapons of the poor, as it seems. what will europe and the democratic side do? mr president, syria is not kosovo, so that an attack can be planned that will remain in the air and not be involved on the ground in such a large country, where the conflict is complex and is becoming increasingly uncontrollable. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a political force, but must be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is able to continue to be a political force, and that the european union is able to continue to be a political force.
mr president, the tragedy of syria, which is synonymous with the destruction of a country and a people, is at a critical juncture. we must therefore act more coordinatedly and effectively as an international community, at least as the european union. today we ask ourselves: is the proposal to destroy the chemical weapons of the assad regime and its allies convincing? it requires a commitment from the security council to control and destroy them. is this solution immediately applicable? experts tell us that the process will take at least ten years. is the proposal sufficient to stop the aggression and violence of the regime by other means? nothing convinces us of that. two things are certain. the european union must not allow the syrian regime to continue to be a political force in syria, and we must not allow the syrian regime to continue to be a political force in syria. the european union is the largest donor and will certainly continue to do so in helping the people inside syria and the refugees. but it must also take a political initiative to play a leading role in finding a politically viable solution.
mr president, the peoples are reacting to the imperialist military intervention of the united states, the member states of the european union and their allies against syria with increased risks of a general war in the wider region. the european union bears a great responsibility for having imposed economic and trade sanctions on syria, recognised the rebels as its official interlocutors and facilitated their military equipment with the decision of the council of foreign ministers on 28 may 2013, paving the way for military intervention against syria. what people can accept that the geopolitical interests of the united states of america, the european union and the monopolies for the control of the wealth-producing sources of energy and its transport routes can buy them into the boards of international legality? the peoples do not accept the imperialist strategy of the united states and its allies. the right of peoples to determine their own destiny is non-negotiable. mr president, i would like you to show a little understanding for a few seconds on a very serious matter that i would like to raise. mr president, i would like your understanding. the bending of children... (the president cut the speaker off)
the european union has a heavy responsibility for the civil conflict in egypt. the european union was actively involved in the outbreak of the crisis. with the revised european neighbourhood policy, it has tried to step on the ground of the urban transformations opened up by the so-called 'arab spring' in order to strengthen its economic and political intervention in that country, in opposition to the other imperialist centres and powers that compete hard for the conquest and redistribution of markets in the region. these factors, together with the confrontations of sections of the egyptian bourgeoisie, have worsened the economic crisis, the explosive unemployment, poverty and suffering of the people. the task force of the european union's big business also participated in the looting. the civil war in egypt shows that the interests of the people cannot be satisfied by the muslim brothers, by the sections of the bourgeoisie that are currently supporting the military coup, or of course by other secular figures. the developments highlight the need for the popular workers' forces of egypt to emancipate themselves from the politics and aspirations of the opposing groups, to fight against capitalism and against its expressions, whether secular or muslim.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, we must begin this debate with a clear admission. the european union cannot today, in the field of the development of purely military capabilities, meet the level of ambition it has set itself, namely to act as a reliable provider of international security. the report does not merely point out the problems of today but also proposes solutions. mr president, i shall not go into detail about the report. i shall dwell only on three important points: first, the union's proven weakness in the planning and conduct of military operations due to the lack of a permanent operational headquarters. while the benefits of setting up a permanent headquarters, possibly through structured cooperation, have been repeatedly pointed out here in parliament, there has been no response from the council. secondly, in the purely operational field, the eu battlegroups are perhaps the most characteristic example of the structural difficulties facing the union in responding effectively to international crises. it is particularly regrettable that to date none of the existing eu battlegroups has been deployed, although they could be a first-in-force force in several cases. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there are solutions that could be implemented. expenditure not linked to military operations, expenditure on the preparation and readiness of combat units, could be charged directly to the union budget. the immediate setting up and financing of the start-up fund for the preparatory actions of military operations should therefore be accelerated. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. the deployment of combat groups in limited periods of time - provided, of course, that certain clearly defined conditions are met - can proceed if member states show the political will. thirdly, the union must invest substantially in the development of structures and capacities, as it has key shortcomings and weaknesses in this area. the current economic impasse and continuing cuts in defence budgets make pooling and sharing a historical necessity. the contribution of the european security agency will be crucial to achieving this objective and its role and work should therefore be strengthened. there are already important examples demonstrating the great potential for achieving synergies and economies of scale. we must exploit them. the common ownership, for example, of precise capabilities that could be used for civilian purposes is an option that we must promote with all our strength. mr president, the union's military structures are only one part of the union's defence policy. the december council on defence must be more than a mere administrative conference with some technical adjustments and the common security and defence policy. the council should focus on the development of a general framework on which to build a comprehensive defence strategy for europe in the years ahead. this strategy does not only include the operational readiness component. it includes the promotion of an integrated, sustainable, competitive, european, technological and industrial base for defence with the participation of national defence industries according to their capabilities, the proper and unhindered functioning of the internal market in defence equipment, research and technologies. in an era of global change, europe will be called upon to shoulder its share of responsibility for international security and crisis management. this is not just a matter of choice, mr president, but a de facto prospect which we will very soon be called upon, whether we like it or not, to face.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs on their timely and substantive reports. it is true that we need a long-term european strategy on these issues which will promote european values and principles in respect of international law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report by mrs giannaku rightly points to the union's lack of capacity to respond in a timely and effective manner to international crises. the union has an obligation under the treaties to maintain peace, prevent conflict and strengthen international security. this commitment must be given the means to be implemented. that is why the operational context is very important. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. as parliament's rapporteur on common security and defence policy this year, i would like to stress in connection with the ana gomes report the importance of freedom of navigation and open sea lanes in order to safeguard trade flows and protect global commons. we need an integrated approach. this includes political, diplomatic, social, economic and military means. in this context, the high representative should develop a european maritime security strategy and define its framework for implementation. at the same time, the development of a common information exchange environment is essential for effective maritime surveillance and the identification and response to maritime challenges. the problem has become very serious with the expansion of piracy and the great danger it poses, among other things, to europe's energy security. and europe has a great fight on that front. i think that a particularly successful example is operation atlant. this was the first naval operation in the history of the common defence and security policy to reduce the number of pirate attacks in the western indian ocean. it must therefore be the basis for the development of its maritime dimension. the maritime threats are not limited to piracy, of course. the increase in maritime terrorist activities, smuggling, illegal immigration, drug and arms trafficking are threats that no member state can tackle alone. finally, i would like to stress that the maritime borders of the member states are also the external borders of the union. this is particularly important in the light of the recent discovery of hydrocarbon deposits in the eastern mediterranean. the delimitation of the exclusive economic zones of the member states and third countries is therefore necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i believe that the reports by the two rapporteurs, mrs giannaku and mrs gomes, are in line with the provisions of the treaties and are therefore - formally - being discussed and voted on. i congratulate the ladies on their very good reports. given that the maritime borders of the member states constitute the external borders of the european union, and particularly at a time of intense turmoil in the middle east and north africa, it is essential for the european union to maintain a high level of political will in order to ensure the control, stability and security of european coastal and territorial waters. the expert for the settlement of disputes concerning maritime areas should always be international law and the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos). of the 21 states bordering the mediterranean, only 3 have not signed or ratified the un convention on the law of the sea, one of which is turkey. the violation of the land and sea borders of the member states of the european union, as well as the threats in the event of the exercise of their legitimate rights under international law, have now become common practice in turkish foreign policy. as the member states of the european union are threatened by third countries in their efforts to make the most of their inland marine resources, the formulation and implementation of a european maritime security strategy is more necessary than ever to safeguard european interests.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i would like to thank the minister and the other members who have taken a positive view of my report and mrs gomes' report. i would add that it is not possible to claim that we are unable to do something because of reduced budgets when, in many cases, the same measures are being taken by the member states with much less effect. first of all, what does it mean when the united states produces tanks on one line and europe produces on sixteen lines? secondly, nobody is preventing - and this must be done - nato from being linked to the functioning of the european union and there is some sort of permanent, structured cooperation between the nato secretary-general and the high representative in this case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no one's going to take them from the national level. so why not maximize the results, why not be more correct, why not protect our maritime borders, where issues arise that are related to human trafficking, drug smuggling, piracy and other threats to the european union? i believe that with the same money, or even less, we can, with substantial cooperation between us and having taken a proper qualitative step forward, both allocate roles - nobody is preventing us from proceeding in structured cooperation as much as we want - and, at the same time, be effective, together with the response to these threats, and in the response to the combination of threats with humanitarian crises observed in the third world and where there is great need for european intervention. mr president, europe has a lot to offer the third world. why isn't it so attractive in the third world? why isn't it tuning in more? can't we do that? of course we can. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so what ? we have to be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is not a mere mere mere institutional institution. i think it is!
mr president, i too would like to thank the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, mr lópez aguilar, for today's initiative which gives us the opportunity to have this important debate. the stockholm programme contains very important data, some of which we have been able to use over the years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think the answer to that question - and i am addressing myself to the commissioner who mentioned the programme - is 'no'. we have not yet reached the level of solidarity that the programme itself and the treaty itself envisage, namely the fair distribution of the burdens on specific pillars described in the programme for our internal security. we have discussed in the house today the challenges in relation to the situation in syria and egypt. one of the issues we discussed was the large flows of asylum seekers arriving at the union's external borders. i would like to emphasize this point. the european union has a duty to protect its external borders. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the question is: have we reached a level today where we can believe that there is a fair sharing of the burden and full and genuine solidarity on this issue and cooperation with the member states? the answer is unfortunately not yes. we are at a point today where member states are disproportionately burdened compared to some others. this has resulted in the growth of racism and xenophobia in many countries. we live with it every day, we understand that it is getting stronger as time goes on, and of course this phenomenon is directly linked to extremism. one realizes that all of this eventually results in our own inner security not being what we would like it to be. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am very pleased to have you back and i hope you will not have another accident. i feel obliged to commend our ombudsman, mr diamantoure, who has represented and served the institution well for the last ten years; the european union is a political union, an institution that unites european citizens and gives them a safe feeling of belonging. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their amendments and for their constructive cooperation in completing the annual report on the european ombudsman for 2012. as rapporteur, i note the progress made by the institution, and i note that it is even greater than last year. i think it is important to mention some points in the report which highlight the progress that has been made. in particular, 2012 was a particularly productive year as the number of investigations carried out and completed exceeded any previous year. the total number of investigations initiated was 18% higher than in the corresponding period of 2011. the number of investigations carried out increased by 23% compared with the previous year. as in 2011, the ombudsman directly served more than 22 000 citizens, examining their reports, responding to their requests and providing advice through the interactive guide on the website. thanks to the useful advice provided by the guide, the number of cases outside the ombudsman's remit was the lowest in the last decade. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the 'consumer protection' clause in the regulation. most of the investigations launched in 2012 concerned alleged forms of maladministration in matters of legality, access to data and information, fair treatment and adherence to reasonable time limits in decision-making. among other things, the ombudsman's competence on the rights of persons with disabilities was recognised in the council decision which ratified the relevant framework of the european union under the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the ombudsman works with four other bodies, including the european parliament's committee on petitions, to protect, promote and monitor the implementation of the convention. ladies and gentlemen, i warmly congratulate the new ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, on her election and wish her all the best in her new duties. i am confident that he will pursue the vision of the outgoing european ombudsman with dedication, dynamism and the best interests of european citizens as his primary objective. i would like to thank mr diamantoure for the exemplary work he has done as european ombudsman over the last decade and for the results he has achieved in making the european union more just and more transparent. as a greek, i'm proud of him. i wish him good health, personal and family happiness and success in his future endeavours.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, on behalf of the united left group, i would like to say that we support the report by mr salabarracú. it was also unanimously supported in the committee on petitions, and this is of course due to the fact that it appreciates the work of the european ombudsman. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de clercq, for his excellent report. he has done a very good job, he has universal recognition and he has done his job many times in the face of difficulties and not in the face of facilitation from the institutions of the european union and, in our view, above all, from the european commission. i would therefore like to make a general comment on the activities and work of the european ombudsman, a comment which of course also applies to the new ombudsman who has taken up this function. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the european parliament, by today's debate, is once again expressing its support for the work of the european ombudsman. that's what the other organs have to do. a second point i would like to make: the european ombudsman is a very important institution, and i am sure that he will be able to help us in the future. it is therefore of the utmost importance, among other things, that the institutions of the european union, and in particular the european commission, operate with the greatest possible transparency, so that citizens can have a say in the work of the european ombudsman and, when they make requests and when injustice is done to them, can find their own justice.
mr president, i am delighted to see you back in the bureau, i am particularly delighted and i hope you will always be strong and strong. ladies and gentlemen, at this time, particularly in the countries facing the greatest difficulties because of the economic crisis, we are witnessing a crisis of public confidence in the european union. the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. the european year of citizens is a year dedicated to our citizens, and the vice-president of the commission, mrs reding, has played a leading role in making this happen. we are all discussing how the position and the relationship of citizens to the european union can be strengthened. the institution of the european ombudsman has over the years played a key role in this respect. in his excellent report, our rapporteur, mr salavrakos, rightly refers not only to the achievements of 2012, but also in a way assesses the decade, because indeed in these years, the institution of the european ombudsman has been strengthened. the person who personified this institution was mr nikiforos diamantinos, who, by all accounts, did an excellent job, and it is the duty of all of us to continue to support this institution in the years ahead and to support his successor, mrs o'reilly, in this direction. i am convinced that the next period will bring citizens closer to europe. i am convinced that what we have gained so far with the european ombudsman will be further enhanced: the speed of response to requests, the immediacy with the internet and e-government, the seriousness with which all kinds of cases have been dealt with over the years. good work, mr diamantore! you've really honored this institution all these ten years. but let me say one last thing: over the years you have also honoured your country, greece!
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, it is now 24 years that i have been sitting in this house. ten years as an mep and 14 years as a commissioner, and let me tell you that i have never seen this before: that on all the benches there is an absolute agreement to applaud the work done by the ombudsman and his team. that is extraordinary, just as your work was extraordinary. (applause)i have nothing else to add to this except answering one of the questions which has been addressed to me. of course, for the commission there is always room for better administration. so we are grateful for the remarks done by the ombudsman. we are listening to him and putting his remarks into practice as much as we can. we are going to do exactly the same – taking due account of the proposals and having a very cooperative approach – we are also going to implement the same approach with the next ombudsman. concerning now the rules for good administration, the commission has set in motion the analysis of the existing eu law in this domain, to see if all the areas relating to good administration are covered or not. and, based on this stocktaking, the commission will decide if there is a real need for a regulation based on article 298. if there is we will do it. but only if there is a necessity and if from the study it appears that not everything has been covered. so the commission has a positive approach to doing this and work is ongoing. in order to be in full transparency, i would like nevertheless to explain to this house that such a regulation cannot be used to set rules that are based on other articles in the treaty, articles other than 298; for instance, access to documents, staff regulations or financial regulation. so, here, we are only speaking about good administration and this we are looking at. all the other problems have to be solved at a different point and i see from the body language of the ombudsman that he does agree with this approach. but for the rest, i think that a strong office of the ombudsman is good for all institutions. thank you once more for having been a strong ombudsman. (applause)
ombudsman. − mr president, i would like to say again that i very much share all the expressions of pleasure that have been expressed by your colleagues on seeing you back here. it is part of today’s business to acknowledge your return. allow me to make a few remarks first on the substance of the report, and then to conclude in response to what you have said about the ombudsman, the institution and my departure. in terms of the substance, i will just say a few things. first of all, i am particularly grateful to ms reding for informing the house that the commission will look carefully at the possibility of moving in the direction of adopting what would eventually be a law on administrative reform in the european union, based on article 298. i think this is very good news. i will leave it to my successor to be able to work with you in helping and advising you on how this can be done. for me the important thing, ms reding, is to be able to provide citizens with greater clarity and to avoid the kind of overlap and confusion that comes from multiple structures, multiple codes and multiple instruments governing and trying to regulate good administrative behaviour. the commission can make an enormous contribution by simplifying that because ultimately, as you know from your own experience, simplicity does not mean banality. it means clarity. if you provide clarity to citizens you will be able to help them and i very much hope that you will be able to move in that direction. i also very much welcome the fact that you are looking into the area of strengthening the regulation concerning the environment, taking account of the improvements made with the special report on vienna airport. so overall i wish to record my thanks to you and hope that the commission will work with my successor in moving forward important pieces of legislation that will clearly strengthen the union’s capacity to be able to signal to citizens that they are in fact doing what needs to be done to help them better. to mr mirsky, i must confess that after nine years i do not instantly have in my head what was said back in 2004. i will say to you that i have no recollection of my office having received a complaint concerning this matter at the national level in latvia. my sense is that it may have been a complaint that was in fact submitted to the latvian authorities and therefore did not reach me, but of course my office is entirely at your disposal if you would like to bring it up so we can actually examine it, and then my staff and ms o’reilly will certainly be able to give you a more responsible answer than i can give you now, 10 years after the event. finally, before i go into my more general comments, i would like to thank ms mazzoni specifically for the support that she and her committee have given me throughout all these years. i am profoundly grateful, both personally and institutionally. it is difficult to be able to be anything other than overwhelmed and humbled by the outpouring of praise and support that has been heaped upon the institution of the ombudsman. i can only say that i am profoundly grateful, and again overwhelmed, and again humbled, by that. however, i choose to interpret and internalise all that praise as a further indication to the ombudsman by this august body of the increased obligations that the ombudsman must have – and the institution of the ombudsman must carry out – as it moves ahead in trying to help citizens and to help institutions promote a better culture. this is exactly the message that i solemnly undertake before you to pass on to ms o’reilly so that she will know the kind of trust that this institution has in the institution of the ombudsman and the kinds of heavy expectations that will be weighing upon her. one of you mentioned at some point that the ombudsman is a special institution. i would like to underscore that by a very brief reference to something that the european ombudsman has been able to continue to do in terms of widely promoting the institution. last week i was in turkey and had occasion to meet with the president of the republic, the prime minister and senior ministers on the occasion of the launching of the turkish ombudsman institution, which had been in the making for 15 years and in which i have been personally involved for the past 15 years. i had occasion to tell mr erdogan, mr gul and the ministers that the ombudsman is indeed a very special institution – what is special about it is that it is endowed with the obligation to speak truth to power – and therefore to tell the prime minister and the president that the special nature of the institution of the ombudsman is that it will often tell them things they may not like, but that is necessarily part of the dialogue implicit in democracy, which in fact also involves criticism and dialogue. that is exactly what i am grateful to you about. my final remark is made on shaky ground, but not too shaky. i have repeatedly consulted with linguists and authorities, particularly in the scandinavian countries, and have been told repeatedly that in sweden and iceland the term ‘ombudsman’ is gender neutral. therefore the incumbent swedish chief parliamentary ombudsman refers to herself as the ombudsman. i will not instruct this parliament and this body as to what they should do, nor will i instruct ms o’reilly on how she wishes to be referred to. i simply put before you the result of somewhat detailed research into the matter and then leave it you or to ms o’reilly to decide what will be the appropriate form of address for my successor. hopefully you will avoid what has happened on the other side of the atlantic, where the term has now been made into a verb so that the ombudsman ‘ombudses’. i do not think that would be particularly elegant. again, with deep gratitude to all of you for what you have done for me in the past 10 years and for all the praise you have heaped upon me, i would like to thank you very much. please rally around ms o’reilly and around ms mazzoni and her committee on petitions in order to help citizens. (applause)
the rapporteur. - the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament wishes to give the outgoing ombudsman its full support and full recognition of his work. it should be understood that the institution of the ombudsman is a judicial institution, not a judicial one. and because it is a judicial institution it is even more difficult, because the ombudsman's decisions are not binding. court decisions are binding, they are enforced. the ombudsman's decisions are rendered with a justice that is respected because of the person's status and the correctness of the decisions. and we've had success with that over the last decade. the european citizens, who are the users of this institution, seek a good social and economic standard of living. and i believe that there is no right living if there is no justice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i fear that when pretexts are born or pretexts are created for governmental arbitrariness, something is wrong. and the economic crisis has created a lot of pretexts for governmental arbitrariness at all levels of government, i believe, not just in europe but around the world. we have to be careful about that. the demand for justice from the citizens of europe is more intense because today, unfortunately, basic human rights are being violated. the commission's role is also important here. in conclusion - and i do not want to go on - i would also like to thank all the political groups for their support for my report.
in writing. the conditions to be fulfilled in order for third-country nationals to be exempted from the visa requirement for short stays in the territory of the european union are defined in accordance with the current regulation 539/2001. one of these is to facilitate the acquisition of visas for third-country nationals who are facing emergency situations in their countries. however, in the course of the application of the regulation, it was observed that many third-country nationals, taking advantage of the visa waiver, travel to the eu and seek international protection with insufficient justification. the report, which i voted in favour of, provides for the introduction of the so-called safeguard clause and the reciprocity mechanism, measures whose activation may affect the european union's international relations. however, the debate remains open as to how strict or not the criteria for their activation will be, with greece clearly interested in a coherent approach to more effectively discourage illegal migration flows to our country.
in writing. the kke votes against the two reports on the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism for banks within the european banking union, because their sole objective is to strengthen financial capital at the expense of the people's interests. the banking union aims to be a centralised eu mechanism for controlled capital destruction, controlling the processes of capital accumulation and concentration in the sector, with the aim of further strengthening and strengthening large financial groups. the eu seeks to have direct control and intervention in banks and member states and to coordinate centrally the decisions and procedures for their bankruptcy, bank takeovers and mergers, even looting the savings of the working-class family. the extent and depth of the disaster are the subject of intense confrontations between the bourgeois classes of the member states - which monopoly groups will lose and which will be strengthened - which will come back to the fore even after any temporary compromises. what is certain is that the eib will burden the working class and the popular strata who will pay, either by looting their life savings, or by tax-avoiding and anti-people measures, bank bailouts and controlled bankruptcies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution. the debate on the digital agenda is directly linked to the effort to create new jobs in new technologies in the eu and to boost its competitiveness. the eu will invest some €80 billion in this area under the horizon 2020 programme in the new multiannual financial framework (2014-2020). it should be noted that in the commission's estimate of 2 million jobs in the eu that remain unfilled due to the inability to find people with the right qualifications, the largest proportion is in the new technologies sector. at the same time, the digital economy is growing at 7 times the rate of the rest of the economy, and the completion of the digital single market could generate €110 billion each year: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway. the report reflects the eu's intense inter-imperialist rivalries with emerging capitalist countries for control of sea channels and subsea hydrocarbons. it calls for the dangerous situation in the china sea, disputes over fishing rights, the rise and expansion of piracy, the emergence of new forms of crime involving submarines and other actions that make it difficult to distinguish between legal and illegal activities. the eu's real concern is the growing claims of emerging powers, which threaten the traditional free access of old navies to maritime zones that were not theirs. the report calls for cooperation with nato, generalization of the experience of the eu's imperialist action in the horn of africa, the provision by the navies of the member states of vessels, infrastructure and bases for the eu navy, the creation of an eu war fleet. it calls for the upgrading of frontex and the militarization of maritime security structures. in short, it expresses the imperialist hysteria of the political staff of the monopolies to strengthen the military capabilities of the eu, for imperialist interventions and wars throughout the planet.
in writing. the report expresses the wish of the capital's civilian staff that the eu should multiply the capacity, speed, number and scope of its military interventions so that they can be carried out anywhere and without nato support. with the cynicism of the imperialists, the report calls for:- an increase in war spending, - an increase in the effectiveness of eu combat units, - the creation of a full eu operational headquarters, - the militarization of political structures and measures to deal with natural disasters, cutting-edge research and technology, - the implementation of the 'solidarity principle', - the restructuring and privatization of the war industry, - the development of cyberwarfare tools, aerial refuelling tools, unmanned aircraft, precision munitions, - intervention in the national defence of the member states through the alignment of the threats, rules of engagement, military structures, equipment, and equipment, - the transfer of certain tasks from the eu to multinational enterprises, - the transfer of the role of nato and the eu to the european defence industry, - the strengthening of the role of nato and the transition of certain european defence enterprises to a common and efficient organisation. as always, the political representatives of the monopolies in the european parliament play the role of the vanguard in unleashing the eu's imperialist interventions and wars throughout the world. that is why they must get their answer from the people. the anti-imperialist struggle to dissolve the imperialist associations is intensifying.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it recalls its firm commitment to a comprehensive approach to crisis management, with a unified use of a wide range of diplomatic, economic, development and, ultimately, military means, as expressed in particular in its resolutions on the annual reports on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common security and defence policy (csdp). military structures and capabilities are an integral part of such a comprehensive approach which, when all other means fail, supports the eu's ability to respond to threats, conflicts and crises, including humanitarian crises and natural disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as it makes a positive contribution to the effort to prevent natural hazards and man-made threats (whether deliberate or not) in the eu; calls on the commission to make concrete proposals on how best to implement the obligations of the member states in these areas, by bringing together the eu and national threat and risk assessments which are currently fragmented and limited in scope;
in writing. there are no reliable estimates of the number of unaccompanied minors in the eu · however, it is estimated that each year thousands of third-country nationals or stateless persons under the age of 18 enter the european union alone or remain alone after arrival, a trend exacerbated by sources of tension in areas of the world relatively close to the eu. the own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, takes account of the fact that this is a particularly vulnerable group and stresses that the best interests of children, as guaranteed by legislation and case law, must always prevail in any action concerning them, whether by public authorities or by private institutions. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to encourage the correct application of eu legislation in the best interests of the child and to propose strategic guidelines, based on best practice, case law and general comment no 6 (2005) of the un committee on the rights of the child, and strongly condemns the fact that the protection of unaccompanied minors in the eu remains extremely weak, stressing that member states should urgently improve their actions in the protection of unaccompanied minors.
mr president, the tragedy in lampedusa, the hundreds of victims and the missing, confirm that, despite the efforts, europe remains weak in dealing with emergencies and situations in the area of illegal immigration. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i hope that the council will take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and the answer to those who say that some countries are not guarding europe's borders well is the same schengen reports that are made every six months that recognize and reward the efforts of countries like greece, and see the problem in its european dimension.
i would like to thank my colleague because she has really got to the heart of the matter: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's look at greece, for example: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what are we supposed to do ? to compensate for the reduction in public spending, the regions' spending should be increased, the economy strengthened. but it is precisely these regions, which are most in need of investment, that are facing even more problems because they are losing both resources from the state budget and their own resources and they are also facing problems with the personnel being lost. so the europe 2020 targets are likely to be missed. what should be done? the cohesion fund and the other european structural and investment funds must support both the regions and small and mediumsized enterprises and the social economy, there must be flexibility in the programmes, there must be greater efficiency in the use of resources and the regions themselves must increase their capacity to absorb programmes. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the rapporteur. - the madam president, commissioner, i should first like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who worked on this report and, thanks to the good cooperation we had, we were able to agree on a coherent text which was voted unanimously by the committee on fisheries. a large part of the mediterranean's sea surface is now outside the jurisdiction or sovereignty of coastal states. it therefore remains largely unprotected in terms of living aquatic resources and their marine environment. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is clear, of course, that the basis is existing legislation in the member states and the european union, international law and, in particular, the un convention on the law of the sea, unclos. of the 21 mediterranean states, only three have not signed and ratified the un convention on the law of the sea. the european union has a duty to help the palestinians. as this convention is part of international law on the management of waters and fisheries resources, the european union should use its diplomatic means to get these countries to sign the convention, especially those countries which are in the process of acceding to it. marine management, the protection of the marine environment and fisheries resources, and the control of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing have been shown to be better protected when there is an institutional framework. in this way, my report encourages the creation of marine zones and, in particular, the declaration of exclusive economic zones, and calls on the commission to help in this area by providing guidance to the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the creation and definition of exclusive economic zones (eezs) is a matter for the member states alone, which will weigh their own interests in this area and take the relevant decisions. i thank the commissioner for her intervention and welcome the commission's efforts towards the creation of an integrated maritime policy within the framework of the blue growth strategy and the recent commission study which examines the costs and benefits of establishing maritime zones in the mediterranean and concludes that the establishment of maritime zones, including exclusive economic zones, would have positive effects on european blue growth strategies by attracting investment and further economic activity.
mr president, the directive under discussion has a twofold objective: firstly, to protect public health by focusing on discouraging young people from becoming smokers and, secondly, to improve the functioning of the internal market for tobacco products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the harmful effects of tobacco on the environment, such as the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tobacco tax, the introduction of a new tax, the introduction of a new tax, the introduction of a new tax, the introduction of a new tax, and the introduction of a new tax. it would be wrong for the directive to become a political and ideological anti-smoking manifesto without any real public health benefits, but with very negative consequences, both from a political point of view and in terms of employment in a europe of 20 million unemployed. we are in danger of reducing the number of workers instead of reducing the number of smokers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i am afraid that these measures will not have the desired effect. finally, i would like to say that i support the negotiating mandate in order to achieve results at first reading.
mr president, i think we should realize that we are not legislating to ban the sale of tobacco products. we are trying to prevent young people from being drawn to smoking and addicted to toxic habits. despite today's declarations of good intentions, 6.1.d potentially allows the ban on the processing of oriental and 'burley' tobacco, thus putting the european tobacco sector at risk of extinction. and while these varieties account for 90% of european tobacco production, nothing prevents 'virginia' tobacco products from third countries from taking the place of european varieties in the choice of smokers. the directive is in some respects disproportionate and often unjustified in its overregulation of the protection of public health which is obviously the main concern of all of us. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr glinne, rapporteur. - the the directive we are discussing is a key instrument for developing environmental policy. the committee on petitions has for years received a number of reports concerning the circumvention and infringement of this directive. the opinion i submitted to the committee on petitions on updating this directive was unanimously adopted, which means that the committee on petitions is sending the message that the directive should be strengthened to meet citizens' expectations. the rapporteur is moving in the direction of improving the commission's proposal. i do, however, consider the following points of amendment to be non-negotiable: public participation at all stages of projects, the submission of the whole of a project to an environmental impact assessment rather than parts of it, the strengthening of the assessment, the mandatory monitoring of the project from start to finish, the consideration of the negative effects on the environment in general and the development of environmental impacts in the case of natural gas and oil shale extraction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in the member states. there have been many violations, and that was one reason for the fact that the committee on petitions visited her - as it did recently; however, i would point out that recently a new bill has been introduced which makes it even easier to carry out such interventions as aquaculture plants, sewage treatment plants, waste disposal plants, etc. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this is indeed a very important directive for the european union. for many people, it represents the presence of the european union, the positive changes that it has brought to countries, at least as far as the environment and participation in development projects is concerned. it is the directive that really increases democratic participation in consultations for development projects, which is the only way people have, in many countries, to defend their rights, to protect the environment and public health as established in the constitutions and in legislation. it is the only way people have to express their views about upcoming projects. the commission proposal is reinforcing this directive. we in the socialist group are supportive of all elements of the commission proposal. furthermore, we ask for more social participation. we ask for more participation by citizens at all stages. i would remind you that two weeks ago we had a great debate here in parliament, on shale gas operations. we are asking for mandatory impact assessments on all shale gas operations, independently of the quantities of gas to be extracted, not only in the extraction phase but also in the research phase. why? because we all know that when all these liquids, all these chemicals fall into the subterranean aquifer, the damage is done, whether in the research phase or in the exploration, so we will be strongly supporting this idea in the vote. also, on air corridors, we believe that there should be an impact assessment when we construct an airport, at the construction phase, where the airplanes pass into the air streams, otherwise there are issues of noise and pollution which affect citizens.
in writing. in its 28 years of application, the directive has proved successful. we consider it necessary, however, to revise it, particularly as regards the procedure for checking the selection criteria on which decisions are based, the quality of the information provided, administrative simplification in order to establish a clear timetable for all the phases of the report and, finally, the extension of its application to include shale gas projects. our aim is to adopt a truly sustainable development model in all member states, harmonized by common rules, taking into account biodiversity, the rational use of natural resources, climate change and natural and man-made hazards. in order to be consistent and effective, we support the revision in this direction, believing that it will be an important step towards addressing the weaknesses identified in recent years and which have given rise to many legal disputes both at national level and at the level of the european court of justice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy in respect of redundancies in the information and communication technology companies anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l. the aid amounts to a total of eur 1 164 930. the ongoing economic and financial crisis in italy further highlights the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as one of the most important social policy tools available to the european union. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. the support provided is also a practical expression of the european union's solidarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to support redundancies at the car manufacturer de tomaso automobili s.p.a., for aid amounting to a total of eur 2 594 672. in recent years, the italian government has made considerable efforts to streamline the budget and to drastically cut expenditure. the strengthening of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in addition to being a visible and practical expression of the european union's solidarity, makes a decisive contribution to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the efforts of the member states to consolidate their national budgets.
in writing. to be credible and to lead the fight against corruption internationally, the eu must tackle organised crime, corruption and money laundering both within and outside its borders. to contribute to improving transparency in countries where corruption permeates vertically and horizontally those institutions, such as political and judicial authorities, which should promote transparency and ensure respect for democracy. this report, which i voted in favour of, calls on the eu member states to amend their criminal laws to give jurisdiction to persons on their territory, of whatever nationality, who have committed bribery or embezzlement of public money, while at the same time calling on european companies operating in third countries to respect human rights and to establish codes of conduct that will clearly promote efforts to combat corruption effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on long-term policy planning and long-term trends and the budgetary implications in terms of capacity development. it is of course important, both at national and european level, to develop long-term strategic planning in decision-making. with this in mind, the european parliament first proposed as a pilot project and is now continuing as a preparatory action the european strategy and policy analysis system (espas) with the aim of creating an interinstitutional system to identify long-term trends on the major policy issues facing the eu. the results achieved to date are of particular importance and the final results of the preparatory action to be completed in 2014 are awaited with great interest. it is important that closer cooperation between the research departments of the various eu institutions and agencies has been promoted. however, it is essential to involve the wider research community more actively in the collaboration, so that there is also a contribution from civil society to the whole project.
in writing. the declarations by the commission and the majority of the european parliament that the aim of the directive is to protect, especially young people, from the proven harmful health effects and risks of smoking are hypocritical and pretentious. the directive does not provide for any measures to prevent - especially for young people - or to help people to quit smoking. behind the various measures and photographic provisions to ban various types of tobacco and cigarettes, such as flavoured or slim, the extent of warnings on cigarette packages, etc., lie fierce competitions between the monopoly groups operating in the tobacco industry and related or even new tobacco-related products, for market conquest, dominance and dominance over their competitors, especially those with a small market share. the result of the vote is a compromise between the warring factions of the monopolies and their political representatives. the postponement of the final vote allows the political staff of capital in the european parliament to negotiate with the council and the tobacco and cigarette industry monopolies in order to continue the profitability of the plutocracy at the expense of the public health.
in writing. i voted against mrs papadopoulos' report because the deliberate killing of people of one sex, precisely because of their sex, is an unacceptable practice which we must condemn. genocide is a matter of universal concern, not confined to asia and europe, but also observed in north america, africa and latin america. i think it is right that the rapporteur has proposed that the commission and the eu delegations include genocide both on the political dialogue agenda with the third countries concerned and as one of the key issues on the development policy agenda after 2015.
in writing. this report is of particular interest to greece as it lists the problems and difficulties faced by regional and local authorities in using european structural funds. it is worth supporting the proposal for flexibility in the release of community resources, in the context of macroeconomic governance, in order to ensure that there are appropriate investments and those which can really contribute to sustainable development at local and regional level. the report, which i voted in favour of, is not binding, but it does show the growing demand for the removal of bureaucratic and formal structures in the eu so that the resources of the structural funds can be used directly in the areas for which they are intended. but this also requires a sound and credible strategy for their use by local, regional and national authorities, which is what our country, especially in the wake of the economic crisis, is called upon to do in view of the new multiannual financial framework (2014-2020).
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the impact of budgetary constraints on regional and local authorities in relation to eu structural fund expenditure in the member states. one of the negative consequences of the economic crisis has been the significant constraints on public finances in the member states. these restrictions are also reflected in the financing of regional and local authorities, at a time when these authorities are called upon to do even more, precisely because of the difficult economic situation in which governments find themselves. at the same time, the eu's next long-term budget is smaller than the current one. the situation is therefore such that the eu regions are in danger of being hit twice, both by the economic crisis at home and by budgetary constraints at european level. in order to safeguard the regions' potential for future development, the maximum possible flexibility of the co-financing of eu programmes and policies should be supported, by exploiting all margins of flexibility in the context of macroeconomic governance and in particular by reviewing the relationship between the stability and growth pact and productive public investment. this will ensure adequate investment to contribute to economic recovery and growth.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, it is an ancient and inalienable right of the citizens to have their democratically elected representatives check every expenditure that the executive spends on its behalf. the council's expenditure is not controlled by the national parliaments, it is included in the community budget and, under the treaties, it must be controlled by the only directly elected body we have in the european union, namely the european parliament. the council, basically citing its political power, has in recent years refused to provide sufficient information to enable us to implement these principles. and parliament rightly, in my view, refused to grant the council discharge in previous years and rightly refuses to do so today. the irish presidency's proposal for an interinstitutional working party could help to solve this problem, but it does not change the essence of what we have to do until a solution is found: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has always been a political body, but it has also been a political body, a political body, and it has always been a political body. they fought to win these rights against a powerful executive. the council of ministers represents democratically elected governments, but these governments are not subject to the control of their own parliaments over the expenditure in question. at union level, the european parliament has this responsibility and must insist on it until it is satisfied that it can carry it out satisfactorily.
in writing. for another year, the european parliament was confronted with the council's refusal to provide information and to answer questions from members of the committee on budgetary control in order to take a reasoned decision on granting discharge. the european parliament therefore decided, for the third consecutive financial year, to refuse to grant discharge to the european council and the council in respect of the council. this attitude of the council is contrary to the spirit of good cooperation which should govern the eu institutions and prevents parliament from exercising its right of review as an authority on the granting of the discharge, which is enshrined in the treaty. a solution must therefore be found, and in this regard it is positive that the presidency of the council has shown a willingness to develop fruitful cooperation between parliament and the council, with the irish presidency proposing the setting up of an interinstitutional working party for negotiations with a view to finding possible solutions to the question of the council's discharge. finally, it should be noted that in order to increase transparency in the financial management and accountability of the two institutions, the budget of the european council should be separated from the budget of the council.
mr. president, to live without fear of violence is a basic human right. it is a fundamental element and expression of european culture, of the european system of principles and values. and yet, more and more often, more and more women in europe are victims of violent behaviour, most often within their own family or wider social environment. so, most of the time, silence covers this sick phenomenon and convictions are rare. the international treaty of istanbul aims to remedy this unacceptable situation by preventing it, by protecting the victims, by prosecuting the offenders, by implementing coordinated policies. as the european parliament, as the member states and as the european union, we must do everything possible to ensure that this treaty is ratified as quickly as possible and that it is implemented effectively. it is unacceptable that only two member states have ratified it. we must strive for a europe free of violence against women and violence within the family.
the debate is closed. i have received a motion for a resolution. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 9 october, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on customs procedures discriminating against lithuanian lorries at the russian border, by laima liucija andrikienė and daniel caspary, on behalf of the ppe group, and leonidas donskis, on behalf of the alde group (o-000098/2013 - 2013/2868 ((rsp) - b7-0516/2013).
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the first phase of the operation to destroy the chemical weapons has already begun. the surrender to international control and the destruction of syria's chemical weapons stockpile is a positive development. this is of course in compliance with the us-russia agreement. i would like to see the commission and the council agreeing to the need for a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. but we are also following the example of the european union, even though we are paying for the marble. i am concerned, however, that according to un figures, more than 2 million syrians have now fled their country, while 8,000 people cross the border by land and sea every day. at this point i would like to make a note: of these 2 million, we have already covered only 10,000 people in the european union. it's a very small percentage. we have to offer greater possibilities. and a second note: greece has about three million migrants at the moment, when all of europe is talking so loudly and so much about 10,000 people and everyone is rejecting the idea. but here in the european union we have the audacity to call the greeks, whose structures have been destroyed by this very problem of immigration, either lazy or crooks. the continuation of the civil conflict in syria, with its tragic consequences for the civilian population, risks a regional spillover of the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, it is clear that in syria there is a dirty war between a dictatorial regime and groups that want to establish a dictatorial regime, under the pretext of theocracy. what we need to do is this: first, to press for a political solution. only a political solution can provide the answer. secondly, to continue humanitarian and economic aid to the neighbouring countries under the supervision of the european commission on the ground so that the object of humanitarian aid does not become a bargaining chip for the parties to the conflict. thirdly, it is absolutely essential that this european conference, to which the commissioner has referred, should take place, and i congratulate him on that. we must also have the council's response. the european conference must also draw conclusions on our general migration policy, on our general refugee policy, on how responsibility is shared among the member states of the european union. we have a tradition of aid to third countries. we have a tradition of covering refugees from all over the world. but our policy is flawed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and, above all, a message must be given to the rest of the international community and the western world that only together and with absolute pressure can there be hope for a political solution.
the debate is closed. i have received a motion for a resolution. the vote will take place today, wednesday 9 october, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs bernadette vergnaud, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the recognition of professional qualifications in administrative cooperation through the internal market information system (com (2011) 0883 - c7-0512/2011 - 2011/0435 (cod)) (a7-038/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 9 october, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. i voted against the report recommending that the european council and the council be refused discharge for the financial year 2011. for another year, the european parliament faced the council's intransigent attitude and its refusal to provide any information or answers to the written questions of the members of the committee on budgetary control. despite the fact that in april parliament decided to postpone granting the discharge, there has been no substantive communication from the council, nor any substantive attempt to resolve the matter. it goes without saying that it is an inalienable right of the european parliament, as the competent authority granting the exemption, to have access to information and data which will help it to take an informed decision on whether or not to grant the exemption. we are in a period when budgets at national and european level are under pressure, and when the member states themselves are calling for budgetary restraint. the control of the implementation of the budget of all the institutions of the european union is therefore necessary. the european council and the council should of course also be involved.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. armenia, after several rounds of negotiations, is now ready to conclude an agreement on visa facilitation. the new visa regime can also give a new impetus to cooperation between the two sides by facilitating the mobility of citizens. however, in the european parliament's view, even bolder steps are needed. the european parliament, in its resolution of 20 may 2010 on the need for an eu strategy for the south caucasus, called for the eu to become more active in the south caucasus region. it is recalled that, within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, the eu has already concluded agreements on visa facilitation with nine third countries. the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and the commission is working with the european parliament to develop a common policy on the environment.
in writing. the agreement with china on the elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade will be very beneficial both for europe and for greece in particular. suffice it to say that china is the world's second largest economy after the united states and the world's largest exporter. although bilateral trade between the european union and china is, according to 2012 data, eur 434 billion, we still have a trade deficit of eur 146 billion. i voted in favour of this proposal from the committee on international trade, as it is important to have a more balanced trade relationship with china and any step in that direction is welcome.
in writing. the 'grand alliance' of capital representatives in the european parliament, ppe-sdp-liberals, nd and pasok, voted today in favour of the european commission regulation which increases the working hours of pilots and staff to 11-12.5 hours during the night, increases standby hours to 8, which combined with the working hours in flight, which amount to 14, can lead to up to 22 hours of work! the european parliament has once again proved its role as the most consistent supporter of monopolies. it has rushed to ratify and legitimize the exhausting increase in working hours, with dramatic consequences for the lives and health of workers and enormous risks for the safety of flights and passengers, in order to safeguard the profits of airlines. the fact that the european parliament, the eu and its institutions are enemies of the people's interests has been confirmed time and again. the kke voted against the commission's regulation on the increase in the working hours of pilots and cabin crew on aircraft and supports their just struggle to overthrow and abolish this anti-worker, anti-people abomination in practice.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint resolution. the ongoing crisis and the escalation of tension in syria has led, according to the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), to 1,929,227 deaths in the last year alone. the european union is also supporting the efforts of the united nations to bring the number of syrian refugees to neighbouring countries and north africa, and the total number of refugees to date, including the unregistered, is estimated at more than two million. as countries neighbouring syria are already declaring their inability to host more refugees, countries close to the region, such as greece, could face increased pressure. for our part, in this resolution we attach great importance to the provision for the use of the resources to be made available through the asylum and migration fund and under the preparatory action 'relocation of refugees during emergency situations'; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
question of the day: blue card. mr president, i would like to ask mrs bildt the following: if i have heard correctly, mrs bildt has claimed that this unacceptable dossier against roma citizens which has been or is being made in sweden is made by the police alone without the government being informed, if i have heard correctly. i find that hard to believe. i believe that the police cannot act so independently on such a large scale, and that this is a government responsibility. where does mrs bildt get her argument from, and how does she know that this is not being done with the swedish government's backing?
mr president, the absence or misguided policies of social inclusion create a climate of fear which then leads to racism and, in the process, to the abandonment of the roma. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. we need balanced social inclusion policies that are more effective. and that means greater involvement of the roma organizations themselves, who know best what education policy should be, or health policy, when it comes to roma issues. and that means we have to tailor every policy so that it responds to the values and attitudes of these fellow citizens. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. for example, the attempt to convene a conference of mayors in the spring of 2014 is a very good one. many more examples are needed and many more similar information and public awareness campaigns are needed to eliminate racism against roma. and i think in every country we have good examples. the roma in particular have played an important role in the development of informal recycling. we can help them to have a more organised, more collaborative and environmentally responsible role in recycling issues and in this way highlight that there are useful activities that come from the roma themselves.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the problem of extremism, wherever it comes from, is real, it is serious, but it is neither new nor, of course, unique to greece. remember the freedom party in austria in 2000, the swiss people's party and its election poster in 2007 with the three white sheep kicking a black one, the third place of the freedom party in the netherlands in 2010 and, of course, many more. the eyes of the whole of europe are now on greece, of course, for the golden dawn to be born. and instead of universally recognising the effort and the absolute will and dedication of the greek government to tackle extremism, instead of universally recognising the effort and the results of the independent greek judiciary in the work it does, we have in a few fortunately few cases unfair attacks, unfortunate and inaccurate statements, such as that of the honourable mr swoboda, according to which the forthcoming greek presidency of the european council will be unacceptable, which is exactly what he said: "unacceptable". so this is the european answer? the european solution should be twofold: a relaxation of harsh austerity on the one hand, with a parallel emphasis on growth and the creation of opportunities, especially for our young people, and on the other hand, greater transparency in the political decisions of the european union. because, beyond the crisis that is destroying institutions and values, citizens are turning to extremist parties to express their anger and because they feel that decisions affecting their daily lives are being made somewhere far away and in a way that they do not understand. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue card". i told you that this party is an extremist party and i repeat my statement. i don't take back anything i said. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
question of the day: blue card. mr papanicolaou, can you please trace back the time when mr swoboda made his statement? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take a decision on this matter. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the greek presidency.
answer is "blue card". there is absolutely no misinformation. i'm glad you can confirm that statement was made. the moment in which it happened is, i think, of secondary importance. the value of the declaration is specific. it comes from the leader of the socialist group and, really, that is extremely sad. what mr swoboda should acknowledge is the twofold effort, the enormous effort that the greek government is making on two fronts at the moment: on the one hand to deal with the problems of the economic crisis, to recognize the sacrifices of the greeks, to be able to have social cohesion to the greatest possible extent and on the other hand, of course, to deal with extremism, as it is developing because of the crisis. that is what we would expect from mr swoboda, not what he has done. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer is "blue card". mr brons, i think we can all agree that we condemn violence wherever it comes from. we condemn the loss of human life, we condemn everything connected with such actions. i am hearing what you have said from some people - fortunately there are few of them in my own country, greece - who are looking at what is happening from a different angle. let me say again: violence is violence and must be absolutely condemned. all of this is not connected with a total condemnation of violence.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, i will focus on greece, where right-wing extremism has taken on the most extreme characteristics with a nazi party going from 0% to 6%. the criminal part of the case is already being examined impartially by the judiciary and i think it will be concluded. the greek authorities themselves admit that there was a failure to act on the criminal aspect; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is what i am saying. on the political level now, we have to look honestly at why hundreds of thousands of citizens stood up to right-wing extremism. there are, of course, very great responsibilities in the political and social system within the country. but it would be blind to ignore the weaknesses at european level. the european institutions after 2010, while helping the country with huge sums, have been compromised with a policy of overtaxing the private sector and anemic reforms that has led to 28% unemployment and 64% youth unemployment, an absurd level that they never foresaw and now do not know when it will be reduced to socially acceptable levels. extreme unemployment that drives people to despair and fuels extremism. they also failed to realize the anger of ordinary citizens at the system of power that led to this disaster, which they helped to keep intact in its logic and mindset. the common people paid dearly. the main culprits of financial mismanagement and corruption, on the other hand, paid little or nothing. i will give just one example: the preferential loans for the ruling parties, which have reached €270 million in greece, continued even in 2012 and the european institutions that, in fact, finance them, remained passive and compromised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon, including the introduction of a new system of penalties for the use of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty for the use of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty for the use of the death penalty, the abolition of the death penalty for the use of the death penalty, and the abolition of the death penalty for the use of the death penalty. we must help to restore both the sense of justice and economic logic. we need a different logic in our own countries and in the european institutions, one which will not blind itself to bad texts and accept them so easily.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, in greece the rise of right-wing extremism, the rise of the neo-fascist organisation golden dawn, is due to two reasons: firstly, that in the three years of the implementation of the memorandum, of an extreme, extreme, neoliberal prescription, unemployment went from 10% to 30% with the misery, despair and hopelessness that goes with it. secondly, the glaring lack of concern for the countries of the european south, which are unable to deal with the political and humanitarian problem of migration, as the lambedusa watery grave shows. greece joined the memorandum not to save its economy and its citizens but to save european banks. the greek citizens are paying for this with cuts in pensions, benefits and wages. they pay for it by closing hospitals and schools. they pay for it by effectively abolishing the country's constitution. all citizens know that in greece there is no democracy: there is a virtual democracy, as we have a government whose only duty is to obey the letter of the creditors' demands. the european parliament has been a party to the peace process in the middle east, and it has been a party to the peace process in the middle east, and it has been a party to the peace process in the middle east. if these policies continue, fascism will take on a new face and will be established throughout europe. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue card". i referred to what we consider to be the rise of right-wing extremism with the neo-fascist golden dawn formation which, as i understand it, with the latest murder, has given rise to this discussion. we believe these are the causes. add as many as you like. but the notion that everyone is to blame, or that everyone is to blame, is not addressing the phenomenon. they're wishes. i have heard the council's spokesman, but he is not dealing with this problem either. so our view is that this particular problem, beyond its criminal side where the examples are very tangible, is being approached politically and ideologically in the way i presented to you in my short speech.
on behalf of the efd group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, the romans later said that "homo homini lupus est", that is, man for man is a wolf. and the wolves are out! they have emerged from the failure to deal with the crisis in europe and from the obsession with failed austerity and fiscal discipline policies, with measures that harm citizens, plunge their living standards and turn the political attitude of european citizens to the extreme. greece has suffered profound economic, social and political disruption. first came the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and after that, came the golden dawn. from 19,000 votes, which was 0.2% in the 2009 election, we went to 500,000 votes. we have to think. we must not give nazism 500,000 votes. i think it's less than the 19,000 they got in 2009.
the "golden dawn" is a criminal nazi organization, which with racist hatred, has murdered, tortured hundreds of immigrants, workers, retailers, launched a murderous attack against kke members, murdered 34-year-old pavlos fyssas in keratsini and must be condemned decisively by the people for its crimes. the developments with the golden dawn criminal gang demonstrate how dangerous the unhistorical equation of fascism-nazism with communism, the vulgar theory of the "two extremes", is, because it exonerates and feeds fascism, trying to identify criminal nazi action with the struggles of the workers' and people's movement. golden dawn is a choice of the monopolies, sections of the bourgeoisie of our country. the european parliament has always been the most important institution in the world, and it is the only institution which has been able to do so. we, the kke, do not want to forget this: fascism is the birth of the exploitative capitalist system. the golden dawn campaign is not a greek speciality. the developments show that fascist-nazi figures are rising in almost all the states of europe. the workers' and people's movement has the power to confront the golden dawn, to smash the fascist-nazi figures and the system that generates them. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue card". as i mentioned in my speech, supporting golden dawn is a choice of the monopolies and sections of the bourgeoisie in our country. after all, four months ago, the guardian reported that shipowners directly fund golden dawn. the communist party of greece, and from the podium of the greek parliament, has denounced the event.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of this disease, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i want to be clear: the greeks are not fascists, they are not racists. the recent history of greece, after a brutal nazi occupation and a dictatorship, proves this. unfortunately, recently many greek citizens have been led astray and have given their support and their vote to extremist forces. they were drawn by the difficult situations and challenges facing greece at the moment; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i would like to ask the commissioner to make a few comments on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. now, the real face, the criminal face of golden dawn has been revealed and no one can hide anymore, glimpse in that direction, even fondle it with petty party calculations and second thoughts. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the stakes are democracy and the real challenge for the current generation of greeks is to regain the citizens' trust in democracy, to politically dismantle golden dawn and ensure that this formation remains a black but only a small page in our history. let me make one final point: unfortunately, we were late, it took another human life, that of paul fissa, to act. let the blood of paul fissa be the last.
madam president, the first and easy look at the case for the rise of neo-nazism and fascism in europe is to say the very simple: when the economic crisis shows up, when unemployment shows up, when economic dysfunction shows up, then fascism and neo-nazism make their appearance. that's the easy approach. why, in contrast, do i have to ask the following: why then in the recent elections in austria, in a country with a very low unemployment rate, do we suddenly see the fascist party of the nostalgics of the third reich garnering 22%? why do we see similar phenomena in the netherlands? why is this happening in denmark? why in norway, which is outside the european union but in the north, we always see the same phenomena? so there is something else, beyond the crisis, beyond unemployment, that fuels fascism and nazism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to quote the words of a greek composer, as i have in mind the death of paul physes. manos hadjidakis, shortly before his death in 1993, said: "neo-nazism is not a theory, it is not a thought, it is not an ideology. it's a play in which the protagonist is one: death. let's think about it. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
answer is "blue card". if i understand correctly, mr. colleague, you felt bad that i spoke of nostalgic for the third reich. if i understand this correctly, then i'm very glad you're bothered and i hope it's not like that.
madam president, it took the murder of paul fyssa to mobilize the authorities and to begin to unravel the criminal activity of golden dawn in greece. the swoboda statement then, after the assassination, sounded the alarm and acted as a catalyst, as did other statements by european officials, in contrast to the unacceptable distortion of facts which, unfortunately, was attempted a short while ago by mr papanicolaou. greece, however, is by no means a singularity. the same phenomena are occurring in hungary and, without the paramilitary element, in the netherlands, finland, austria, france and denmark. the core is the same everywhere: xenophobia, hate speech, extreme nationalism, violence and intolerance. the rise of racism in europe has common roots and common features, regardless of the expression it takes in each country. the european far right is being fed and enlarged by the deep crisis, not only economic but political, social and also a crisis of values, in which the union has been plunged for years, and the inability of the democratic forces to propose a viable alternative. let the case of greece and the blood that has been shed be the occasion for a new beginning with the determination to put an end to what breeds far-right and extremism. it is a pan-european problem that requires a pan-european solution. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
question of the day: blue card. madam president, i did not falsify anything and we agreed that this was mr swoboda's statement. on the basis of what i have heard from you, are you telling us that because mr swoboda has in effect threatened indirectly that the greek presidency will not be good or should not be done, that is why the greek authorities have moved? are these serious things? i would also like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to take a decision on the matter.
answer is "blue card". it is a shame to focus a central debate on extremism in europe, and especially in greece, when we have a dead man in an attack on the president of the socialist group. shame on you, mr. papanicolaou, shame on you! mr claeys, fascism and racism have the same roots everywhere, regardless of the expression they take in each european country, regardless of the extreme paramilitary or non-military organisation. the root is the same, the causes are common and we must all find and give the answer.
madam president, it is true that in my country there have recently emerged extremist and neo-nazi forces with a great deal of electoral influence. but this was not a new phenomenon. for a long time, both the government and, i think, the commission, both in greece and in other countries, have shown a lack of concern for the emergence and expansion of these phenomena of intolerance, racism, homophobia and nationalism. the crisis has certainly created fertile ground for the expansion of these concepts, but we cannot justify these concepts, the emergence of neo-nazi forces, on the pretext of the crisis alone, since we know that in other countries where there is no crisis there are such forces. i would like to make a few specific suggestions: the commission and the european parliament must jointly set up a european database and a observatory to record all hate crimes and racism at european level, so that we can have a real picture of how the phenomenon is developing at european level. secondly, that the commission investigate, with the help of independent research, the sources of funding of far-right and neo-nazi organisations. we certainly need to change fiscal consolidation policies. finally, i would suggest that the european parliament name one of its chambers the 'paulus fyssas chamber' in memory of a man who was the victim of racist attitudes and whose sacrifice, i believe, is a cause for legitimate concern and awareness at european level.
"a dark cloud is spreading across europe. violent, racist and extremist populism is emerging in many member states. it's a sign we can't ignore. when i supported this in this hall in november 2010, i could not have imagined that in less than two years, an openly pro-nazi organization would be participating in my country's parliament. but the problem is not greek. it is a european problem and therefore the response must be a common and european one. it would be an irony of history if, after the forthcoming european elections, we had here in strasbourg, the symbol of the reconciliation of the peoples of europe, representatives of the darkest past of european history. we must prevent that from happening. but the prolonged recession, unprecedented unemployment, the intractable immigration problem and the crisis of political prestige make the project very difficult. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. otherwise, the limbs will continue to strengthen.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the oral questions to the council and the commission on the alleged transfer and illegal detention of persons in european countries by the cia, by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o-000079/2013 - b7-0215/2013) (o-000080/2013 - b7-0216/2013)
mr president, i would like to make a brief reference to five years ago, when the debate in this parliament began (some of us were not even elected members), when a report was drawn up which, on the basis of the information available at the time and the complaints from both sides, resulted in a text which was not unanimously adopted because some of the accusations and statements were considered to be inaccurate and politically motivated. i am mentioning this, some years later, to make it clear that i want to believe on behalf of all of us that we are in favour of the protection and respect of human rights. and we are, in any case, clear on this: we are all against the unlawful detention of our fellow citizens and we must respect the laws and the treaties and, of course, any violation of the human rights convention is unacceptable and reprehensible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but a year later, without much new information, we are faced with a resolution, which will be voted on tomorrow, which contains unproven accusations, naming specific member states but without any concrete evidence. we cannot make references in terms of communication or in terms of information from the media. it requires investigation, it requires verification and it requires a legal procedure as defined in each member state. so in closing i repeat: we are clearly in favour of full respect for human rights, but personally i am very wary of tomorrow's resolution which contains inaccuracies and names, in many cases falsely as far as i am aware, individual member states.
question of the day: blue card. mr president, i would like to ask mrs le pen whether her country, nato and the european union should stop the imperialist wars in africa, for example? should the relations of exploitation that exist between some countries and the european union - france, with its former colonies - be ended, should there be another authority, so that these people can live as people in their countries and not risk this odyssey, this tragedy in which it is known that too many of those who start from their countries will end up drowning in the mediterranean?
madam president, the european union's migration policy has been crushed on the shores of lampedusa. her guilty body is being eroded along with the bodies of the innocent. we must balance sentimentality and realism and adopt a viable and credible political approach to tackling the issue of illegal and irregular migration in the light of developments in the middle east region and arrive at an appropriate and fair solution that ensures an equitable burden-sharing between member states. the countries which form the external borders of the european union are under increasing pressure from these migratory flows. we call on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, in view of recent developments in the region, to convene a high-level conference at european union level on migration, with particular attention to the countries forming the external borders. i would point out that the dublin ii regulation and the proposal to reform it create a situation of imbalance for the countries of entry of illegal immigrants. therefore, as i have repeatedly stated from this step, the first entry criterion should not be the criterion for examining asylum-related issues, as provided for in dublin ii.
madam president, today's debate was scheduled before the lambedusa tragedy. it seems we all felt that a new tragedy was imminent. and i agree entirely with what the commissioner said, that there will be another tragedy, because there are still problems in our neighbourhood. i saw what happened yesterday at the council of ministers. i'm also disappointed. what will a new task force tell us? what new work will this working group be doing that is not already being done by the institutions coordinating the european effort? i hear about the new proposal for frontex: the commissioner said to do missions and to deploy frontex from spain to cyprus. with what ? which countries have the means to give more? what equipment can frontex have next time the funds are scarce? we are hearing about the unequal burden-sharing in the countries on europe's external borders. the member states' representatives said yesterday that there must be a fair distribution of burdens, and that we must compensate for the dublin ii weaknesses in terms of the unequal distribution that is taking place. the only way to do this - and you know this, commissioner - is through the internal relocation mechanism based on a distribution key, the relocation programme. you spoke to us about 'resettlement', that is, resettlement from third countries to europe. we must also make internal relocation so that there is a fair distribution of burdens, so that there is solidarity, so that there is what the treaty provides for. i would ask you once again to submit the motion. give us the legal basis to pursue this motion. the european parliament is your ally and we have proved this time and again and i know that you want this proposal too. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's external borders. it is your responsibility, commissioner, it is your responsibility to yourself, to all of us and to the credibility of the european union.
madam president, in my intervention in the debate on the far right in europe i said that it took the loss of a human life, that of paul fissa, to take action against this phenomenon. and it took, unfortunately, so many lives to be lost before we could admit and confess that the union's immigration policy is wrong. it's a shame and it's a shame. it is a shame that the relevant ministers of the interior, or at least some of them, are still resisting the necessary changes and continue to rely on an inadequate framework such as dublin ii. the greatest pressure is still on the countries of southern europe, on the external borders of our union. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a great actor in the world of the free movement of persons. in conclusion, i would like to point out the following: the reception given to mr barroso today is not of any concern to me, although it should be a lesson to us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the member states. we are unfortunately hearing this from some of the speakers in this chamber, and we have seen it in the previous debate on the rise of the far right in europe.
the real culprit in the lambedusa tragedy is the imperialist policy of exploitation, the wars of the european union, the united states and nato. this policy is uprooting migrants who, in their quest for survival, will either meet a tragic death or face the brutal repression of the european union and its member states. this is the result of the giant web of anti-migration measures by the european union and governments, as are the bulldozers and the sweeping operations in greece. the european union is cynically exploiting the tragedy of lampedusa to intensify repression. commissioner malmström announced the extension of frontex's operations from cyprus to spain and new police measures for the border surveillance system, eurosur. the hypocritical expressions of grief by the european union's political staff are causing outrage because the 17 000 migrants who have lost their lives since 1990 at the borders are victims of both frontex and the european union and the brutal exploitative capitalist system.
madam president, i would like to begin by extending my best wishes to the rapporteur for a very happy birthday. i wish him to be strong and strong and to make many more such reports. once again, the rapporteur has done an excellent job and we thank him very much for that. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. eurosur is coming to meet this need. and if we had had this tool in the lambedusa tragedy, lives might have been saved. with this tool we will be able in the period to come, from its implementation onwards, to have better results in our coordination, we will be able to fight illegal immigration, to identify smugglers more easily but also, of course, to say it again, to save lives, to identify small boats, to have the appropriate coordination between member states to achieve the best possible management, especially in times of crisis. but let me make one more comment on the implementation of eurosur. i would ask, commissioner, that we should be able to strengthen our efforts through eurosur immediately and quickly. we should not have experienced what we saw with easo, the european asylum service that we set up, but we found over and over again that, while we gave it powers and relied on its actions, it did not have the infrastructure, as a new agency, to meet new challenges every time. i would like to believe that the same will not happen with eurosur and that there will be a faster processing and a faster development of the service.
member of the commission. − madam president, as you know this has been discussed since 2008. member states and frontex have already established the main component of eurosur on a pilot basis, for instance 18 of the 19 member states applying eurosur as of 2 september 2013 have already established their national coordination centre. i am confident that croatia will also establish its coordination centre in the coming weeks. as you know frontex has also connected these national coordination centres to the eurosur communication network on a pilot basis. this means that eurosur can become operational in december 2013, as planned, once the regulation has been formally adopted by the european parliament and the council. there was a question on the costs. in its impact assessment accompanying the eurosur legislative proposal, the commission estimated the costs for eurosur to amount to eur 244 million for 2014-2020. we now estimate that the actual costs will be a little bit lower, because the budget provided to frontex for eurosur under the next multiannual financial framework is lower than estimated in the impact assessment. however, it is currently not possible to provide a fully accurate cost for eurosur, because the allocation to be provided under the european earth observation programme copernicus has not been determined yet. it will of course take some time until eurosur works smoothly. frontex will also need, in the first year, appropriate funding to be able to fully implement eurosur as required by the regulation. i am very happy with the cooperation we have had with the european parliament. your amendments have significantly improved the text. you have provided the integrated border system with a very strong emphasis on saving lives, and given it a human touch. i would like to thank you for this. i think eurosur can be a very important tool when it comes to inter-agency cooperation, near-real-time information exchange and solidarity. thank you for the work you have been doing here.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. eurosur is a pan-european border surveillance system, with the main objectives of reducing the number of irregular migrants entering the eu undetected, saving more lives at sea and increasing the internal security of the eu as a whole, helping to prevent cross-border crime. i therefore consider the report on the establishment of a european border surveillance system (eurosur) to be of particular importance. the exchange of information and improved cooperation between member states and between the agencies involved are essential steps towards a better burden-sharing of the management of the eu's external borders.
the next item is the commission statement on the suspension of the swift agreement as a result of the surveillance by the united states national security agency (nsa). the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next plenary session in october ii. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on strengthening cross-border cooperation for law enforcement in the eu through the implementation of the prüm decision and the european information exchange model (eixm) by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000067/2013 - b7-0501/2013) [2013/2586rsp]
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the future of the european economic area (eea) by malcolm harbour, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-000087/2013 - b7-0505/2013) [2013/2710 (rsp) ]
the debate is closed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, and on behalf of the united left, i would like to say that we agree with the mcmillan-scott report on the action and work of the committee on petitions for 2012, and we will vote in favour of it. we did the same thing in the previous plenary session with the report on the ombudsman's work because we believe, each of us in our own sphere of competence, that these two institutions are trying to help european citizens to find their own justice and that, by extension, they are trying to help european citizens to improve their living conditions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i refer, firstly, to the question of the transparency and democracy of the european institutions and, secondly, to the social and other consequences of the economic crisis. the first is that the obstacles are often very great. citizens are not aware of their rights, they are outside the decision-making centres and often the decisions are perceived as unfair to their rights. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step towards the creation of a european union which would be able to take account of the needs of the citizens of europe and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of education and training. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the report by mr mcmillan-scott is a good account of the work of the committee on petitions in the past year. i congratulate him because his report is complete. the worsening economic crisis and the imposition of austerity policies in europe are providing governments with an alibi for taking measures that violate human rights. the committee on petitions plays the role of the 'intermediary' to which european citizens turn to limit state arbitrariness at the administrative level. there were a significant number of referrals in the past year (1986 referrals) concerning the environment, fundamental rights and the internal market. the 2013 has been declared the european year of citizens and, as such, the committee on petitions has devoted considerable time and effort to the importance of citizenship, which is directly linked to free movement in the european union. citizens of the european union continue to face obstacles within the internal market, in particular when exercising their right to free movement of persons and goods, workers and suppliers and services. i would like to stress that the committee on petitions must continue to defend european citizens and ensure that they are served in the best possible way in the free movement of european citizens. the leverage of europeans across the union will preserve and improve european culture and preserve democratic principles and traditions. incidentally, i believe that we must immediately shape a new immigration policy and reform the dublin ii regulation, whether we like it or not! the future of europe will be full of immigrants, and the future citizens of europe will also come from outside europe. we have to integrate all these people.
mr president, the report of the committee on petitions for 2012, for which i thank the rapporteur, clearly captures the range of issues that have concerned european citizens in the past year, against the backdrop of the economic crisis and its impact on the daily lives of european citizens. i would remind you that 10,000 citizens have denounced, in a joint report, the violation of their fundamental rights as a result of the economic crisis, and have proposed the creation of a federal economic government in the european union and a fiscal union of the member states subject to the democratic control of the european parliament. the experience of my participation as a member of the committee on petitions is only positive. i am sure that our experience - i hope at least - will enrich the commission's experience.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs neyts-uyttebroeck's report. the eu and the kingdom of jordan are moving closer together and this offers the opportunity to develop a close relationship with significant measures of economic integration and deepening political cooperation. the geographical position of jordan gives it strategic importance for stability and security in the middle east.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as i believe that the pan-european maritime border surveillance system eurosur will work positively in contributing to the increase of the internal security of the eu as a whole. the exchange of information and improved cooperation between member states and between the agencies involved are essential steps towards a fair and efficient management of the eu's external borders.
in writing. the resolution, which i voted in favour of, encourages the commission to set a high level of protection for the personal data and privacy of european citizens, while calling for the european legal framework to be optimized for effective law enforcement. among the proposals to improve the current framework, which is largely characterised by inefficiency and lack of democratic control, are the full implementation by member states of the prüm decision, the establishment of a universal framework for the exchange of information and the extension of police training at european level.
in writing. the issue of strict social stratification into hierarchical groups defined by origin and occupation, despite the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights, continues to lead to significant discrimination of people in many countries, especially in asia. but even in europe, the discriminatory treatment of the roma group in some member states conceals a latent form of discrimination which the european parliament has been trying to highlight and combat in recent years through resolutions and reports. this joint resolution, which i voted in favour of, condemns the continuing human rights violations against people affected by caste hierarchies, with particular reference to the recent report by githu muigai, the un special rapporteur on racism, which expresses grave concern that the social exclusion of dalits and similar affected communities is leading to high rates of poverty and exclusion for affected populations, as they do not benefit equally from development processes.
in writing. discrimination on the grounds of employment and origin is a form of discrimination prohibited by international human rights law. i voted in favour of mrs joly's report because it is important that we as a european parliament express our opposition to the continuing violations of human rights committed against people affected by caste hierarchies and discriminated against on the basis of caste, such as, inter alia, the denial of equality and access to justice and employment.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the first cop meeting in which i took part was the copenhagen meeting, and it was a moment of hope for everyone that we would reach an international agreement. it became a moment of hope because another ‘procedural’ meeting took place in bali before that. it was a procedural meeting that brought about the bali road map, which allowed us to hope for a decision in copenhagen in 2009. so for me, warsaw is the new bali. warsaw is the meeting which is not procedural. we have to come out of warsaw with a clear roadmap – a timetable, as the commissioner said. we have to know when we will really start committing, because we cannot do the same as we did in copenhagen and only start committing in paris. we need to decide in warsaw that in the next three, five, six, seven months we are going to have commitments and the first discussion on specific commitments. otherwise we will not make it again. so warsaw is going to be crucial, and if warsaw does not set the timeline, hope for paris is going to be very limited. so we have to do it.
mrs mcguinness, let me clarify that you spoke on behalf of mr vidal-quadras, so you had one-and-a-half minutes. catch-the-eye procedure
- thank you. - thank you. mrs auconie was on the list of speakers. she had two minutes to herself.
i have received one motion for a resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 23 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by mr niccolò rinaldi, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the exercise of the union's rights to implement and enforce international trade rules (com (2012) 0773 - c7-0415/2012 - 2012/0359 (cod)) (a7-0308/2013)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 october 2013 at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the european union's trade policy towards the eastern partnership countries in the run-up to the vilnius summit, by vital moreira and laima liucija andrikienė, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000092/2013 - b7-0508/2013) (2013/2776 (((rsp))
mr president, what i wish to raise is the issue of child poverty. the statistics are alarming, given that child poverty in europe stands at around 24%, but the quality data is also staggering. the daily testimonies of children living with accumulated disadvantages, from parental unemployment and insecurity to the lack of basic goods, while the symptoms of malnutrition of children in schools in greece, spain are increasing. the european union has certainly taken initiatives and the recent council of ministers for social affairs and employment considered tackling child poverty a european priority. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. winter is coming, christmas is coming and the material and moral needs will be greater and greater.
mr president, more than four million citizens in greece, who until recently had jobs, paid their social security contributions, are now excluded from the public health system. due to the fact that they don't have to pay insurance contributions, they lost their jobs, their shop closed, their business closed, even though until recently they were consistent with their obligations. their exclusion from the public health system is a return to an era of social barbarism. the commission and the greek government must find a way for all citizens, regardless of whether they are unemployed, whether they can currently pay social security contributions, to have access to the public health system. the greek government has estimated that 200,000 citizens will have, with some european funding, access to some services, but 3,800,000 people will remain without access to the public health system. this is bad for social cohesion and for the public health and well-being of citizens.
in writing. the existence of a strong and independent judiciary is one of the pillars of a democratic state. for this reason, the european commission, in the context of enlargement policy, is now addressing reforms in the fields of justice and home affairs in the accession process through a new negotiating methodology, including clear priorities and criteria in the accession chapters of justice and fundamental rights and justice, freedom and security. the support it provides to these sectors through the resources of the pre-accession facility is also of particular importance and for this reason it is also necessary to ensure that it is properly managed. however, in order to strengthen the rule of law and to tackle corruption, the share of overall funding should not be the sole criterion of the effectiveness of eu efforts. for example, the contribution of the taiex instrument (technical assistance and information exchange) of the european neighbourhood policy is essential to support legislative reforms. the conclusion to be drawn is that the european commission and candidate and potential candidate countries must step up their efforts to strengthen their judicial systems and to fight corruption.
mr president, the recent scandals involving defective silicone breast implants and non-ce-marked hip implants have shown beyond doubt that european consumers are exposed to health risks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner and that the european union's health and safety legislation is applied in a uniform manner. the commission proposal places a disproportionate emphasis on the placing of products on the market and their free movement at the expense of patient safety. we propose, on the one hand, further regulation at the level of manufacture of these products, with stricter controls on the licensing of notified bodies, and on the other hand regulation of the use of the products themselves. it should be understood by all concerned that the decision to apply common rules in the member states is a matter of urgency. (the president cut the speaker off) )
the committee on regional development has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products. - the mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is widely accepted that cohesion policy is the main and most appropriate investment instrument which can lead the european union to recovery from the crisis, to growth and job creation, precisely meeting the investment needs of the regions. cohesion policy also makes a decisive contribution to the effective reduction of regional disparities and to the achievement of social, economic and territorial cohesion. that is why i find the council's reduction of resources unacceptable, at a time when the latest available estimates seem to indicate that some eur 20 billion in accounts, mainly in the context of cohesion, will remain unpaid until the end of 2013 and should be carried over to the 2014 budget. we, the european parliament, must ensure, and that is why we are working, mr president, that there is adequate funding for all the policies of the european union, and in particular those policies which are aimed at growth, jobs and investment.
the next item on the agenda is voting time. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes. )
i think it was ok. it was approved and we have left enough time for people to vote.
we take note of your remarks but this is not a procedural issue.
the vote will continue. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes. )
the chair is aware of the issue. i want to inform you that the president has considered the matter and has decided to proceed with the vote. (protests)i suggest that we do not open a discussion.
i have just informed the house that the president himself has considered the matter and has decided to proceed with the vote. (loud protests)there are rules in this house, colleagues, and we shall proceed with the vote.
sir, i'm sorry, you may not be well informed, but there was no request for a referral.
let me inform you about the procedure. mr fox did not ask to refer the report. (just a minute colleagues.) he asked the president to consider the matter. this is a different issue and this is based on a different article. if you want to submit a request, that is a different matter, but none has yet been submitted.
the request has to be on behalf of a political group. who is in favour of the proposal by mr fox? we will have short speeches from the political groups on the request by mr fox, one in favour and one against. who wishes to speak in favour of mr fox’s request?
mr swoboda, according to the rules, we put the request by mr fox to the vote by roll-call vote. colleagues, this is the only way to take a proper decision. please make a decision through your voting rights. (the request to refer the report back to committee was adopted)
colleagues, according to the rules, the request had to be put to the vote. the vote took place and there is a decision to postpone. we shall now proceed with the vote on the tannock report. we shall not continue the discussion on the issue. i shall give the floor only to the rapporteur, ms estrela.
we shall now proceed with the tannock report.
i just want to underline the fact that the chair has respected the rules of procedure. that concludes the vote.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because the objective of the proposed ship recycling regulation is to reduce significantly the negative impacts linked to the recycling of eu-flagged ships, especially in south asia, without creating unnecessary economic burdens.
in writing. the aim of the report, which i voted in favour of, is to create a common framework for the systematic production of demographic statistics in the eu. it is a valuable european tool for comparing the demographic data of the member states, which is intended to facilitate the subsequent development of specific policies to tackle under-fertility. the report is of great interest to my country, which is now experiencing a population decline. it should also be noted that the demography vulnerability index is proposed to be included in the demographic measurements in order to identify which regions of europe are particularly exposed to demographic change. such a development will not be limited to simple findings but will be taken into account, in a second stage, in determining the amount of resources to be channelled from the european funds to vulnerable areas, which is important for greece.
in writing. − i voted in favour. demographic challenges are increasing and play an increasingly important role in the development of the eu. only if statistics are available on this subject can meaningful comparisons be made from which conclusions can be drawn and policies drawn up.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the report emphasizes that the principle of democratic ownership puts citizens at the centre of development, with governments guaranteeing space for csos to work and to hold government to account for policy. democratic ownership also promotes the active role of civil society and local authorities within policy formulation and implementation processes. the eu needs to be more and more engaged in creating accountable, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations among partner governments, csos and las, in order to reach more sustainable development outcomes. to this end the eu should give priority to initiatives aimed at promoting ‘partnership for accountability’ at country level between csos, parliaments and courts of auditor.
in writing. the resolution on the redesign of education systems adopted a package of measures to improve and modernise the quality of education in europe, to combat illiteracy and to improve access to knowledge. this initiative shall enhance innovation in education through the use of new technologies and encourage synergies to enhance employment and funding in education and training, involving public and private actors. education alone cannot solve the problem of youth unemployment. it can, however, create the conditions for a higher level of training in line with market needs, both in higher-skilled jobs and in manual occupations. the present report, which i supported, promotes language learning in accordance with the objectives of the barcelona european council. at the same time, lifelong learning and training through quality apprenticeships are being strengthened, while further highlighting the need to reduce the growing number of young people out of employment, education or training, with an emphasis on access to education for our disadvantaged fellow citizens without discrimination.
in writing. − i voted in favour. combating unemployment has to be our primary objective, and this is where education and training have a crucial role to play. in the long term, education and skills development are key to innovation and economic growth. however, high quality education that provides useful skills for the labour market needs to go hand-in-hand with the development of personal competences and societal attitudes. we need to build the right skills for employment, improve basic literacy and numeracy, and strengthen transversal and entrepreneurial skills. we also need to develop partnerships in order to create the right skills strategies, and encourage debates on the funding of education
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the resources of eu preaccession assistance in the fields of judicial systems and the fight against corruption in the candidate and potential candidate countries. it is not disputed that the existence of a strong and independent judiciary is a cornerstone of a democratic state. the european commission and the countries concerned must therefore step up their efforts to strengthen judicial systems and to combat corruption. the support provided by the eu in this direction through the resources of the pre-accession facility is of particular importance and therefore sound financial management of this assistance is deemed necessary. it should be noted, however, that in order to strengthen the rule of law and tackle corruption, the share of overall funding should not be the sole criterion for the effectiveness of eu efforts, as there are various mechanisms supporting legislative reform and training in the candidate and potential candidate countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour. access to safe healthcare is the cornerstone of a high-quality health system and is recognised as a fundamental right of european citizens by the eu and the european institutions. patients are therefore entitled to expect that every effort should be made to ensure their safety. it needs to be noted that there is room for improvement in hospital and non-hospital care, particularly in respect of patient empowerment and the overall training of health professionals and carers. further efforts must also be made to implement european classifications on patient safety and to draw up european guidelines on patient safety standards.
in writing. this report tackles the issue of misleading not consumers but professionals, traders and businesses. these are marketing policies that include 'covered' charges or charges for services for which the professional's consent was never given (e.g. advertising in a professional directory without a contract). despite the efforts of the eu within the common market to limit these phenomena, the level of protection of businesses still varies considerably from one member state to another. for example, only austria and belgium have included a specific prohibition on misleading listing schemes in their legislation. the present report, which i voted in favour of, is a first attempt to improve cooperation between the member states in the fight against misleading advertising, with a view to gradually converging the legislative frameworks in this direction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is the best-kept secret in europe. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union is based on the principle of the protection of the financial interests of the union by the member states. the member states alone have failed to tackle these phenomena in many areas. and there are many arguments, if we apply the principle of subsidiarity in good faith, which explain why we need strong new common institutions for a more effective europe. we need not only the european public prosecutor, which is on the way to implementation, but also more dynamic institutions, such as the evolution of the tools we have in a european fbi. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. one reason is that political corruption goes unpunished. we need strong new institutions to be able to deal with it.
mr president, we are in the midst of a period of unprecedented fiscal adjustment in the countries with the most serious budgetary problems, in the midst of a crisis and in the shortest possible time. at the same time, when the peoples of these countries are under such pressure, and with them europe as a whole, when austerity is limiting the possibilities of development, at european level - i repeat - because i do not want to focus on specific countries only - you know that my country, greece, is the country that is under the greatest pressure - the citizens see a huge black hole from which billions of euros are being lost, due to organized crime, money laundering and the exploitation of our people, as described earlier by our rapporteur. our fellow citizens ask: will we see light at the end of the tunnel ? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the cost of tax evasion each year is equivalent to 1% of european gdp, or about €120 billion at european level. the cost of tobacco smuggling is 10 billion euros. i shall not even mention the sport mr pirker mentioned earlier. the trafficking and exploitation of human forced labor is estimated at some 25 billion euros annually. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question is how an amount which, when added together, is almost equivalent to the gdp of portugal or ireland, countries with problems, can be reduced thanks to the initiatives we are taking. the commission has already taken the initiative and we must tell the citizens about it, but the question is how we can reduce this amount and achieve tangible results, especially in the midst of a crisis, especially when we consider that the extremes are taking hold and are growing thanks to the very figures we are discussing today. i thank our rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, the committee and all those who have worked on this report. i would like to stress that, while all these organized criminals are running fast, we, at european level, have for the first time such a framework at our disposal and for the first time we will be running faster than them and we will be able, in the coming years, to show concrete results in a positive direction.
the european e-justice network is indeed a very ambitious project, which has already started to be implemented, but there is still a lot to be done before we can be sure of its effectiveness. i fully agree that this is the most direct and convenient tool, a tool which makes possible the harmonization of records and mutual assistance and cooperation between the systems of the different member states. we are obliged to point out, however, that this network of e-justice is not only unknown to the public, as many colleagues have said, but is equally unknown to the judicial officers, to people who have a professional connection with the judicial sector. i am a lawyer and i am well aware that many of my colleagues in my country are not aware of the possibilities of e-justice at european level, at a time when, at european level, we are planning and envisaging the possibility of mediation and dispute resolution via the internet. there is no doubt that we have very great potential, but in order to make all this a reality, we must, in addition to the efforts and coordination required at european level, also strengthen efforts at national level. we all realise, i suppose, that it is very difficult for a judicial officer in a country to turn to the internet to find answers if in his own country he has not filed documents electronically, for example. i understand that the member states share this ambition, but what i see are resources for e-government - in general, not just in the area of justice - that remain unused in many member states, resources that have not been absorbed and infrastructures that have not been created, which does not allow us to say that we are creating bases at national level and therefore at european level to achieve a better functioning of the justice system through the internet. the conclusion remains that we have the potential, that the next programming framework is very important and ambitious but that a necessary condition for its implementation is the better functioning of justice at national level by the member states.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, it seems that the future holds even greater challenges for us in a wider region extending from the russian hinterland to the african hinterland of the mediterranean, in 17 countries. the low living standards in most of these countries, local nationalism and dependence on old alliances, the unfinished arab spring and the phenomena it has generated, the protracted crisis in syria, the recent hydrocarbon discoveries in the eastern mediterranean, the palestinian question entering a new phase and the problem of population mobility - i will put it this way - but above all unemployment, which extends to the european region and these regions, are just some of the parameters that will define and rediscover developments this year. in many of the neighbouring countries, europe is not as glamorous and influential as it once was, and the united states has not lost its special interest, nor has russia. the vilnius summit must not be lost. it is an opportunity to advance trade relations and economic integration with the countries of the eastern partnership which are under heavy pressure from russia and it is an opportunity to ensure a good relationship with these countries.
madam president, i have the impression that there are some in this chamber who think that people, whether in the eastern or the southern countries, are not following events and do not know what is happening in the european union. i say this because we are discussing this today as if iceland had not refused to join the european union and as if armenia had not found other ways. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the crisis, unemployment and all these problems are becoming known, of course. the european union's aggressiveness is also becoming known. it is the aggressiveness of the imperialist powers and the rivalries that exist in our region and that is the reason for the problems with russia, which is of course a rising capitalist power. and there are conflicts. in this respect, i do not agree at all with what commissioner füle said about the loss of independence of countries in negotiations with the european union. the european union has always wanted to impose its values and interests on these countries. the european union has never spoken of equal relations. why then should there be no issues of loss of national independence? finally, the european union is also now paying for the policy of 'more for more and less for less'. that is a divide and rule policy and these are the results it has today.
mr president, when we started the fisheries fund in the european union, the problem was fishing capacity and the modernisation of our fleet, so we gave subsidies to scarce resources. why was that? we needed more ships. the years passed and we were very successful in modernising and increasing our fleet, and now we have over-capacity. for many decades now we have been overfishing. the scarce resource now is fish. this is where we need to give subsidies. if you ask fisherman what the problem is, their problem is that they cannot catch enough fish because there are not enough fish around. this is what a fisherman needs in order to have a sustainable, secure future and to have income. we need funds that result in more fish in the seas, not more boats. our fishermen do not sell boats, they sell fish; this is what they need. i support data collection funds for data collection, and i support preservation measures and increasing gear selectivity – but not more boats.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is very unfortunate that, although we have been collecting data for many years at member state level – and have obliged the member states, under european legislation, to collect this data, and have often paid for research papers by europeans – this data, together with any other data that is out there, is not collected, not publicly available and not able to be used for what we need in assessing the situation and helping us to make more accurate policies. so the initiative of the commission’s green paper on marine knowledge was very timely, as was this report by mrs patrão neves that i shadowed for the socialists. we worked very closely with mrs patrão neves, cooperated very well and agreed to the compromise package. so their proposal is that this data will be used, lightly aggregated if necessary but not to an extent that will not allow the full use of the material, so that we can have more data on what is happening in our seas. this is very important in order to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems, to find and protect spawning grounds, to protect nursery grounds, and for so many other operations. it is very closely connected with other legislation. as you know, i am the rapporteur for the deep-sea file. the mapping of the seabed and the deep-sea file are closely interconnected in many other pieces of legislation. i fully support this report, and i am sure it will also help us to achieve what we decided in the basic regulation.
before we begin this conversation, i have an announcement to make. the committee on budgets yesterday adopted mr la via's report on draft amending budget no 6/2013: revision of the provisions for traditional own resources, vat and gni bases, budgeting of the corrections in favour of the united kingdom and revision of the gni reductions for the netherlands and sweden - other revenue from the microsoft fine - establishment of the union trust funds in accordance with rule 140 (2) of the rules of procedure, i propose that this report be added to the agenda for debate and vote on thursday 24 october 2013 as follows: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i want to ask if there are any objections.
i just want to remind you that this is not a debate. we have to resolve a procedural issue. i would like to ask the president of the european commission firstly, and then the representative of the council, if they want to intervene briefly on the specific issue that we are discussing.
what i propose right now is to hold two votes. firstly, we will vote in order to decide whether we include or not point no 6 on the modification of the budget in the agenda, and then we will vote on whether there will be a debate before the vote on thursday. η πρόταση για την εγγραφή στην ημερήσια διάταξη της έκθεσης σχετικά με την θέση του συμβουλίου όσον αφορά το σχέδιο διορθωτικού προϋπολογισμού αριθ.° 6/2013 της ευρωπαϊκής ένωσης για το οικονομικό έτος 2013 εγκρίνεται. εγκρίνεται επίσης η διεξαγωγή συζήτησης πριν από την ψηφοφορία της πέμπτης 24 οκτωβρίου 2013.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 24 and 25 october 2013
mr president, the european council's agenda is indeed of great interest with topics such as innovation, growth, competitiveness, employment, the digital economy, the deepening of economic and monetary union, the eastern partnership. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. what is the status of the investment plan for europe and the european investment bank? how exactly will it be accelerated to make a greater contribution to growth and competitiveness? what is the matter with the youth employment initiative which is such an important issue? the more europe remains in a situation where the north-south divide is becoming ever wider, the less competitive it will be overall in relation to other competitors at international level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that this issue will be resolved during the greek presidency, because in the case of the banks, the important factor is not only their involvement in the economic crisis but also their recovery, which is a complex but necessary condition for a better future in europe.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ferreira, for her excellent work. i shall deal only with one point in her report which i consider to be extremely topical and important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this is a matter of concern to all, but it is certainly of far greater concern to the countries implementing an adjustment programme under the supervision of the troika. it is a matter which mrs goulard also stressed in her speech a short while ago, because even if we modernise the institutions and the instruments of economic governance, if we persist in ignoring the growing sense of domination that people have, then the problems will recycle. mr vice-president, we have repeatedly asked you to include countries implementing an adjustment programme in the country-specific recommendations in order to finally create a framework for dialogue and open democratic evaluation of the policies being implemented and proposed. it is better to do this than to constantly send contradictory and contradictory messages through leaks or statements, as has recently happened again with greece.
in writing. this decision aims to fill the legal gap in regulation (ec) no 111/2005 on the rules for monitoring trade in drug precursors between the eu and third countries. the term 'drug precursors' means legal substances which are also used in the manufacture of drugs. a typical example is the acetic acid used in the manufacture of heroin. the proposal for an amendment to the regulation, which i voted for, provides for the classification of substances into the following categories: those subject to substantial control procedures at export, import or transit and those subject only to certain formal procedures, exclusively when exported to certain countries. at the same time, new medicinal products are being added to the list of precursors. the european parliament, however, expresses its concern about the grading chosen in any case because it is likely to lead to time-consuming control procedures at the same time as drug traffickers are constantly inventing new ways of using drugs to create drugs.
mr president, both the report we are discussing and the summit in december 2013 are aimed at making the common foreign and security policy even more aggressive, even more imperialist. the european union's military and other missions are growing and expanding, geographically and in time. in this hunt for natural resources and markets, entire countries have been turned into de facto protectorates and run by established governments. the european union must not allow the people of the mediterranean to be forced to live in a country which is not theirs, and which is not the responsibility of the european union. this policy has armed syrian mercenaries and considers them as its interlocutors, this policy is responsible for the destabilization in egypt and for the situation that has arisen in libya after the imperialist war. this policy is destroying greece's defense industry and shipyards for the benefit of multinationals, throwing thousands of workers out of work. for these reasons, the peoples do not accept that international legality is determined by the geopolitical choices of the usa, the european union and the monopolies and by the competition with the rising capitalist powers. the people do not accept that the interests and values of the european union and of multinational companies are being legitimized.
mr president, the brok report points out that the cfsp actions for 2012 still fall short of the expectations created by the lisbon treaty and proposes, inter alia, the establishment of clear priorities and strategic guidelines for the establishment of a framework for the evaluation of relations with the union's strategic partners, namely the main ones, the usa, russia, china, india, japan, brazil and the united states. it is important to stress, however, that the use of the possibility of concluding enhanced cooperation agreements to circumvent the serious problem of the principle of unanimity, the veto, is a highly sensitive matter and must therefore be treated with extreme caution. the whole baroness ashton proposal records important external event management actions but does not mention any initiative coming from the european union. i believe that our union must play a strong leading role in world affairs, that it must be ahead of events and not behind them. in this context, i would suggest that mrs ashton should take the initiative for a middle east peace plan, especially now that the election of rouhani as president in iran has raised hopes in many quarters.
mr president, baroness ashton, as you yourself have said, we are living in a period of great change on the international scene and at the same time the union is facing the greatest crisis in its history. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. today, we need a foreign policy tool to deal with the great challenges of a world that is changing at breakneck speed. but we must understand that only by joint, coordinated, collective action can we achieve the maximum result. in this effort, the foreign service has a central role. we now know its weaknesses and its bottlenecks and we must make it even more effective so that it can, in a transparent and accountable way, fulfil its mission, in order to have a genuine european policy which represents the union as a whole and prevents the renationalisation of foreign policy. the crisis in the southern mediterranean, the syrian disaster, the shift of the united states' focus to the south pacific - all these events are putting pressure on the union to take up its role. the union must therefore clearly define its external objectives. the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty have not been exploited sufficiently and the role of the institutions has not been fully clarified. we have had the opportunity to see this time and again, especially in times of crisis. the treaty gives parliament considerable powers of control and evaluation of external action. the european parliament also has a vital role to play in disseminating information and raising public awareness on foreign policy issues. today, more than ever, a large proportion of citizens are affected by poverty and unemployment in many countries of the union and believe that foreign policy issues do not concern them. in difficult times like today we need clear and rigorous priorities. we can't be with the same presence everywhere. our neighbourhood, east and south, the balkans, turkey - these areas must be our priority. with fewer resources we are called upon to do more and above all to send a clear and unambiguous message to all directions that expresses our principles and values, always keeping human rights at the centre of all our action in the external field - without double standards and without concessions. in any case, we need more europe here too, not less.
mr president, mr brok's report is indeed very important and very well-structured, with the sole exception of the point where he proposes opening new chapters for turkey, a country which does not recognise all the member states of the union. i also want to thank mrs ashton for creating an agency which may not be perfect but started from scratch and has made tremendous efforts. i agree with what she says in her report, that we need the political, the operational and the economic. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. at the moment, the european union is supporting development where it can in developing countries and the united states is only concerned with security issues. i believe that action must be equally distributed in both areas if europe is to play the role that the whole world wants it to play. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must be able to take a more active role in the world, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world, and the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2014 eu general budget. for another year, the ep's committee on budgets took a responsible stance by rejecting the council's horizontal cuts that are not in line with the eu's real needs, nor do they reflect the outcome of the mff negotiations, as instead of the forward-looking allocation of funds for the horizon 2020, erasmus+ and cosme programmes in 2014, the council cut the commission's proposal for these programmes that contribute to the fight against youth unemployment. as regards cohesion policy, which is the main and most appropriate investment instrument that can lead the eu to recovery from the crisis, growth and job creation, while precisely addressing the investment needs of the regions, i find the reduction of resources by the council unacceptable, at a time when the latest available estimates seem to indicate that some eur 20 billion in accounts will remain unpaid at the end of 2013 and should be carried over to the 2014 budget. as meps, we have a duty, and we do, to ensure that the various eu policies are adequately funded, particularly those which, like cohesion policy, result in growth and job creation.
in writing. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, is a follow-up to the green paper 'knowledge of the sea in 2020: from seabed mapping to ocean forecasts' which the commission adopted almost a year ago. it is intended to make proposals for the mapping and dissemination of data on fishing activity in europe. greece, a maritime country with an increased fishing activity, is particularly interested in the earliest possible implementation of the objective of creating a digital map of the seabed of european waters, which should be completed by 2020. this is an ambitious project, which depends on many factors (institutions, academic research, use of high technology) and increased resources, and whose results will provide valuable information on the marine wealth and our country (adequacy of fish stocks, etc.).
in writing. the report on the european semester is characterized by the spirit of strengthening its democratic legitimacy and introducing a more social dimension. i voted against the report because it remains fully in line with the failed neoliberal policies of the union. the problem with the european semester is not just that it is democratized and that it is simply a matter of assessing its social impact. the problem is structural. it is linked to the anti-social and anti-democratic policies it promotes. the introduction of the european semester paved the way for the imposition of european austerity memoranda throughout europe, a choice that was subsequently validated by the enhanced surveillance and the budgetary pact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. the member states have lost all possibility of pursuing an alternative economic policy with a development and redistributive role. the disastrous consequences of the european semester and the policies it promotes have ceased to be speculations and have become a sad reality. the peoples of europe are being levelled socially. in greece, the results of the implementation of the ostensible fiscal consolidation are permanent fiscal deficits used as an alibi for more stringent austerity measures, resulting in debt rising to 160% of gdp, unemployment soaring to 30%, poverty rising and zero growth.
the text we are called upon to vote on tomorrow in the plenary is perhaps one of the best examples of cooperation between the european institutions because, in its final form, it is the result of an honest compromise in areas where differences seemed insurmountable at the outset. i am referring to the new title which preserves the brand name of perhaps the most successful european programme for the mobility of young european pupils, students and teachers, the visibility of the individual programmes, the fair distribution of the corresponding funds, the financial support for non-professional sports organisations and finally the successful negotiation of the budget, with a 40% increase in the midst of the economic crisis. i admit to having reservations about the effectiveness of student loans, but i would like to thank the commissioner for education and culture, mrs andrula vassiliou, who really wanted to bring together, under the same umbrella, previously scattered programmes, the chair of the culture committee, mrs doris pack, for her militancy and love for young people and, of course, the shadow rapporteurs who contributed to the final formulation of the seven-year programme.
mr president, as in my previous speech on erasmus, i would like to congratulate mrs androula vassiliou again on her intention to review all cultural actions in one package and to commend the rapporteur's attempt to separate two sections in it, culture and the media. i regret, however, that mrs costa and i have not been given the opportunity to fill a great gap in this programme, which can only be filled by a new programme on intangible and tangible cultural heritage, which is europe's attempt to find a way of supporting the search for, the discovery and the protection of the antiquities of the european continent, because it is another tool we need to promote both the european idea and our knowledge of europe's past. i hope you'll deal with that in your next term, m'lady of the realm.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have succeeded. i would like to thank everyone who has worked towards this result, and in particular my friend and co-rapporteur, mr ertug, mr riquet and mr ayala sender for our work and cooperation, and of course all the members of the transport committee and all the staff of the commission and the irish presidency who have worked towards today's result. the agreement reached on the trans-european transport networks and the new connecting europe financial instrument paves the way for a modern, environmentally friendly, integrated and interoperable european combined transport network. the new transeuropean transport networks are among the most ambitious and tangible development programmes of the european union for the next 15-20 years because they ensure the unimpeded mobility of goods and european citizens, including those with mobility problems, and because they strengthen the economic, social and geographical cohesion of all regions of the european union. in this way they make a decisive contribution to the growth, competitiveness and innovation of the european economy and to the vital increase in employment for the peoples of europe. to achieve these objectives, a new methodology was adopted in the design of the network, which was strictly observed against narrow national interests and efforts. the new methodology distinguishes between two levels in the network: the 'central network' and the 'integrated network'. the 'core network' is literally the 'blood supply system' of the single market because it links the main european urban centres and economic centres and allows the unimpeded flow of goods and people into the single market. this network aims to respond to the main challenges faced by transport in europe for many years, such as congestion of transport arteries and the absence of critical cross-border links. the new design of the new pan-european transport network takes seriously the need for all member states and their regions to be adequately covered by the network. it also ensures that the greatest effort is focused where the highest european added value is. this ensures that investments are mutually reinforcing. for this reason, it is envisaged that priority and special attention will be given to the major axes and in particular to projects of common interest with high european added value. in this context, particular emphasis was placed on the corridors tool and in particular on the role and responsibilities of the european coordinators. the european coordinators shall acquire substantive powers and become catalysts for assisting and promoting the implementation of projects of common interest along the nine corridors. in addition, there will be clear timetables for the completion of the networks. this will give both the european commission and the member states a clear objective and a clear time horizon for working together. the agreement reached on the connecting europe facility (cef), which provides for the allocation of eur 23 billion for the period 2014-2020 - a figure that is below our initial ambitions - is nevertheless a satisfactory basis for attracting the additional public and private investment that will be required to implement the new trans-european transport networks strategy. the project bonds, which are still at a pilot stage, can provide additional possibilities. ladies and gentlemen, the new trans-european transport networks, together with the new financial instrument 'connecting europe', represent a major qualitative leap forward compared to the past. the new transeuropean transport networks are a realistic and feasible strategic plan. they demonstrate that the european union can produce concrete, tangible results for the benefit of european citizens at a time when europe is 'thirsty' for growth and jobs.
madam president, at a time like the present, when europe is desperately seeking to regain its lost competitiveness and to emerge from recession, an integrated inter-operable combined transport network is a development tool of unique european added value. although the agreed funding is not sufficient for such an ambitious project, the acquisition of the core network alone is sufficient to make the project significantly more efficient. moreover, recognition of the specific nature of island regions will contribute both to strengthening their populations and economies and to their integration into the internal market. today's initial draft may be incomplete but it is certainly the beginning of the realisation of an ambitious vision and for that i want to thank my fellow rapporteurs, the commissioner and all those who have worked for the common cause.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, after two and a half years of hard work, today with our debate here and tomorrow with our vote, we are making a very important qualitative leap for transport in europe. competitiveness, growth and employment are three objectives to which the new transeuropean transport networks can contribute. this is a very important event for all the peoples of europe, and especially for the peoples of the cohesion countries and those countries, like my own country, which are facing a great recession and high unemployment. the legislative stage is indeed coming to an end. now, the next bet that we have before us is the realization and implementation of this grand design. i would like to ask the commission and the commissioner, whom i congratulate once again on the work he and his team have done, to contribute their expertise and their active presence and to support the cohesion countries and the countries whose economies have special needs with their expertise so that these countries can derive as much benefit as possible and as much potential for growth and employment from the new major project, the transeuropean transport networks.
mr president, the new barrage of anti-people measures and the escalation of authoritarianism against the working class movement through the criminalization of trade union activity and struggles are two sides of the same coin, the anti-people policy of capitalist governments and the european union in all its member states. the new democracy-pasok coalition government is striking, together with the troika, thousands of workers' layoffs, further dramatic cuts in wages and pensions, crushing blows to social security and the public health system, savage taxation of popular income. the same businessmen who fund the fascists of golden dawn are leading the charge against the working class movement and the criminal prosecution of militants, workers, trade unionists. with trumped-up charges the steel workers are being brought to trial to criminalize their nine-month heroic strike struggle and the right to strike itself. a host of criminal prosecutions and countless court sentences against pame trade unionists, workers' and popular movement activists, farmers and even students are being used to terrorize the people and to break their spirit of struggle. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, last monday turkish prime minister erdogan said that 'there is no state called cyprus'. this statement calls into question the existence of one of the 28 member states of the european union. this statement is both unhistorical and dangerous. it is unhistorical because it flouts the decisions of the united nations, it strengthens good neighbourly relations and, of course, it is a serious insult to the european union. it is dangerous because it is taking place at a time when the cyprus problem is entering a critical phase. the international community, and the european union in particular, must finally wake up to turkey's real intentions on the cyprus issue.
mr president, for the first time in its history, the european union is being asked to adopt a budget and a financial framework smaller than the previous ones. no one can and no one should be proud of that. at a time when inequalities are growing in europe, when we need more than ever an investment budget of excellence, a budget which can contribute to the objectives of growth and competitiveness for the european union as a whole, we are called instead to adopt a punitive budget with a blackmailing logic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the only way to reverse this paralysing budgetary imbalance is to create a strong and reliable system of own resources, including through the introduction of the financial transaction tax.
in writing. i would like to congratulate parliament's negotiating team on their methodical and fruitless work. while the agreement on the 2014-2020 mff is not the most ideal and we cannot be fully satisfied that for the first time in history the eu's long-term budget will be reduced, we cannot but acknowledge that this was the best possible outcome that parliament could achieve. we have also succeeded in focusing the mff on growth and job creation, combating youth unemployment, strengthening research and innovation programmes and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. we have also received assurances that the total budget will be used to the maximum, that there will be more flexibility in payments and commitments and that there will be the possibility of reviewing and revising the budget in the interim. the time is now running backwards for the start of the programmes of the new programming period which are intended to contribute to recovery and development efforts. let us not forget that the eu budget is the union's main investment instrument and acts as a catalyst for economic growth, job creation and the achievement of social, economic and territorial cohesion.
mr president, after two and a half years of hard work, we are voting today and by our vote we are making a major qualitative leap forward for transport in europe. competitiveness, growth and employment are the three objectives that we are pursuing with the new transeuropean transport networks. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i want to thank everyone who worked so hard for today's success.
in writing. the 2014-2020 mff constitutes an austerity budget which, in combination with the economic policies implemented by the council, the commission, the ecb and the imf, is in no way able to cope with the consequences of the crisis. the reduced budget will cause further increase in unemployment, reduction in labour rights and cuts in public spending in areas such as health, education, research. the huge cuts in the structural funds and the cohesion fund will further increase economic and social disparities between member states. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union budget for the financial year 2000 is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. europe needed more than ever an increased budget, one based on the idea of solidarity between peoples, aimed at creating growth by securing decent jobs. on the contrary, through opaque and undemocratic procedures on the part of the council, the new mff 2014-2020 reflects the political will to continue austerity and serves the interests of the union's strong economies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation for the mff 2014-2020. after the adoption of the european commission proposal and the subsequent negotiations on the texts of the legislative regulations and on the amount of their funding, we are now at the end of this effort which undoubtedly marked our parliamentary term. negotiations with the council were intense and many times conducted in a negative atmosphere, particularly after the february 2013 summit, when the council refused to further negotiate with parliament on the overall size of the budget and the inclusion of items subject to the co-decision procedure. although the size of the eu's long-term budget is being reduced for the first time in its history, which i cannot be happy about, it is important that we now vote on the mff regulation so that eu programmes can be implemented on time and that continuity and predictability of funding to beneficiaries can be ensured. finally, it should not be forgotten that the flexibility and the revision clause introduced in the mff, following strong pressure from parliament, makes it possible to use eu funding to the full and to make the mff responsive to future economic conditions.
in writing. the agreement of the political representatives of capital, pp-s&d-liberals-nd-pasok-laos-dracis, on the eu budget, the so-called multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 (mff), opens the way for the quick financing of the eu monopoly groups, through the plundering of the people's income. the main lines of the mff 2014-2020 are: targeted capital grants for entrepreneurial action in new high-yield areas such as renewable energy, the digital market, transport, energy and telecommunications networks; the subordination of scientific research to the needs of capital by strengthening the 'centres of excellence' and by directly linking education with the big capitalist companies; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the workers must have no illusions. the eu budget, whether increased or reduced, is designed to boost the profitability of businesses rather than the interest of the people. the only way for the working people is to strengthen the anti-monopoly anti-capitalist struggle of the people's alliance for the overthrow of monopolies, for the disengagement from the eu, for the unilateral cancellation of the debt and for the conquest and construction of workers' power, which is an essential condition for meeting the modern needs of the working people.
in writing. increasing the funds to fight youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion in each country must be issues of major importance for the future of europe. in the context of dealing with the devastating consequences of the economic crisis for the people, this regulation is legitimate. but while there is this increase in the amount of the european social fund for specific countries, the total amount of the budget for the structural funds is being reduced, while at the same time the blackmailing condition of macroeconomic selectivity is being introduced for countries facing budgetary difficulties. it is necessary to tackle unemployment, poverty and social exclusion in their entirety. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget (dab) no 7 for 2013 covering the increase of commitment appropriations by eur 150 million in title 1b, as it is a result of the final outcome of the negotiations on the mff for the period 2014-2020 and concerns france, italy and spain. the european council of 27 and 28 june 2013 considered that a budgetary solution should be provided for the abovementioned countries. the eur 150 million in commitment appropriations will be covered by the margin below the expenditure ceiling of title 1b (eur 16 million) and by the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument (eur 134 million). it is particularly important to emphasise that in the event of unforeseen situations a corrective budget should be used and funding should be made through new appropriations, without jeopardising the funding of programmes already implemented or for which the eu is legally committed and for which payments should be made.
in writing. i voted in favour of draft amending budget (dab) no 8 for 2013 of eur 3,9 billion, the second instalment of 2013's dab 2, which aimed to increase payment appropriations to enable the european commission to pay the outstanding 2012 accounts in all policy areas of the eu budget, namely under the structural funds and the cohesion fund - payments that could not be made on time due to the lack of sufficient payment appropriations in the 2012 budget. the european parliament had made clear from the outset that there should be no payment shortfall at the end of 2013 and that an unusually high level of unpaid bills should not be carried over to the new financial period. the adoption of spd 8 was therefore one of the conditions for parliament to put the mfn regulation to the vote. by adopting the council position on ipa 8, the european parliament lays the foundations for starting the new 2014-2020 programming period with the smallest possible structural deficit and for the european commission to respect the legal obligations it has assumed towards eu funding recipients.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain to support the redundancies in 140 construction materials companies operating in the valencia region. the continuing economic crisis in spain has further highlighted the added value of the egf as a tool for the european union's social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity. the spanish regions are subject to a process of rationalization and drastic cuts. the eib's support will be able to contribute to the fight against unemployment without significantly burdening the efforts of fiscal consolidation of the national and regional budgets of spain.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the report on the approval of the eu's conclusion of the revision of the international contracting agreement (icpa) because this agreement seeks to intensify the exploitation of the wealth and peoples of third countries by the monopoly groups. the aim of the gpa, to which the most powerful capitalist countries are signatories, is to open up national public procurement markets. the revision of the convention under approval seeks to identify third countries by the trap of some differentiated treatment arrangements for these countries. however, these arrangements are transitional and of limited duration and do not provide any protection for the markets of these countries, nor do they offer any advantage in terms of access to the markets of large capitalist countries. the sole objective is to open up the markets of these countries so that the eu's monopoly enterprises and other imperialist centres can invade them, intensify the exploitation of workers and plunder the energy resources in particular and other resources of wealth available to these countries. the rapporteur of the report presents the revision of the gatt as a benefit for third countries and tries to cover up the plunder by monopolies which only bring misery to the people with false pretenses of transparency, corruption and so on.
in writing. this report, which i voted in favour of, approved the new erasmus+ programme, which is the continuation of the separate programmes on mobility in education and lifelong learning. the new agreement constitutes an integrated eu strategy for education, training, youth and sport. it increases the choice of young people, giving them the opportunity to develop skills and gain more employment prospects. it also plays a key role in combating unemployment in the eu, particularly in the southern member states. the programme will run from 2014 to 2020 and mobilise a total of around eur 14,8 billion. erasmus+ provides, among other things, the basis for the recognition of non-formal education, provides flexibility and clarity to hitherto fragmented programmes and creates a student loan guarantee mechanism for postgraduate studies abroad. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the future of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs pack's report. the erasmus programme is the most successful student exchange programme in the world and must be continued. the reduced community resources must not prevent it from continuing, but, as the rapporteur and the commission also suggest, it is important to reduce the overlap and fragmentation found in the existing programmes in the individual education sectors.
in writing. the eu and the member states' civil governments are seeking, through the new erasmus for all programme, which is a follow-up to the eu's erasmus student mobility programme, to promote the strengthening of restructuring in university education and vocational training and the abolition of public and free higher education. they promote the manipulation of consciences and the subordination of students-teachers-researchers to eu values, competitiveness and the capitalist market. in order to provide cheap 'recyclable' labour to monopolies, the programme finances and assesses the degree of implementation of the reactive 'bologna treaty' and promotes 'lifelong learning'. the implementation of erasmus for all leads to the abolition of the free public university system. the programme provides for the provision of guarantees to financial institutions for the 'granting' of loans to students, thus paving the way for the introduction of tuition fees by higher education institutions. the programme creates ideological mechanisms to reproduce and defend eu values - the values of the rotten exploitative system - through funding programmes in universities, departments and centres that propagandize the eu's 'political integration', this anti-people eu construction.
in writing. the resolution on the creative europe programme, which i voted in favour of, supports culture and creativity, protects tangible and intangible cultural heritage and highlights the 'mosaic' of european cultural identity. the dissemination of european values is directly linked to the development and promotion of cultural creation, which is the basis of the programme. creative europe shall support the audiovisual industry, with particular emphasis on smes and start-ups, and shall support creators and artists. it is estimated that more than five million jobs in the eu are related to culture and creativity in general, while the contribution to the union's gdp is estimated at 2.6%. the programme, which is divided into two sections, culture and media, links the audiovisual sector to europe's cultural diversity and takes another step towards addressing new challenges such as the need to adapt to globalisation and the transition to the digital age.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs costa's report. the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are essential to strengthening the foundations and the future of european unity and sustainable development. i agree with the rapporteur's amendments on transnational cooperation and improved cooperation between cultural operators and those on the training of cultural and creative professionals.
in writing. 2013 is the european year of citizens and in may 2014 elections will be held to elect the members of the european parliament. this initiative highlights the importance of citizen participation in european actions and policies. the report on the 'europe for citizens' programme, which i supported, includes a framework for promoting partnerships and twinning and provides for actions to preserve historical memory, raise awareness and mobilise citizens. the new programme highlights the values on which the union was built and developed, born out of the ashes of the world wars, values which we need today, when the danger of the rise of extremism is unfortunately becoming more and more visible and racism and intolerance are dangerously magnified. citizen participation is an added value factor in european policy-making. the new programme promotes initiatives that focus on issues of major concern to citizens themselves and in areas of real vital importance, while ensuring a geographically fair distribution of resources and providing support for sports organisations of particular importance. the european parliament, despite its limited ability to make further amendments to this programme, has adopted an important tool and is making it available to citizens so that they can participate in shaping policies that affect them.
in writing. the kke voted against the eu's anti-communist program called europe for citizens 2014-2020 because it is an even more vulgar version of the previous program of the 2007-2013 period that finances the anti-communist campaign of the eu, the falsification of the historical truth and the unacceptable propaganda of the identification of fascism with communism. as it is stated in its title, the programme finances 'the preservation of the memory of the crimes committed under all kinds of dictatorships in modern european history, such as nazism, fascism and totalitarian communist regimes, including stalinism, with the ultimate aim of preserving peaceful coexistence in europe'. - what ? at the same time that the monopolies, the eu and the bourgeois governments are crushing the lives and rights of the working class and the poor popular strata, lowering wages and pensions, drastically reducing any social spending and dismantling the public social security, health-welfare and education systems, at the same time they can and have a million-dollar package (229 million euros) to spray anti-communist poison on the consciences of the working people and especially the youth. it is thus confirmed that the anti-people attack of capital and the political staff requires raw anti-communism in order to be able to strike the class labour movement and its vanguard, the marxist-leninist communist parties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation, which focuses on projects of high european added value in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure. the aim is to create integrated transeuropean networks to ensure the development and competitiveness of the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors. to achieve these objectives, the regulation provides, in terms of public transport planning, the means for implementing infrastructure projects, encourages research, technology transfer and development (economic and operational), and seeks to create the conditions for the eu to have efficient and reliable transport, energy and telecommunications systems that can contribute to the global competitiveness of its economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because it makes it easier to link europe. projects such as those covered by this regulation in the areas of infrastructure, transport, energy and telecommunications will bring greater european added value and ensure efficient and effective transport links, which will promote the equal development of all european regions, the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the eu, and the completion of the single market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. transeuropean transport networks are of great importance for the proper functioning of the common market. the report makes a positive contribution to the mobility of eu citizens, economic, social and territorial cohesion, economic growth and job creation.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr de castro's report. the adoption of delegated acts, and in particular the duration of the period of delegation of power to the commission, should not be open-ended. · i therefore agree with the rapporteur's amendments to limit them to five years, with the possibility of tacit extension for periods of equal duration, unless the european parliament or the council object no later than three months before the end of each period.
the committee on budgetary control adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the madam president, commissioners, colleagues, the word 'compromise' is the key word, a word which in itself makes it clear that all the parties had to accept issues which did not fully satisfy them, such as the inclusion of the macroeconomic conditions in the general regulation. however, with our yes vote tomorrow we will have achieved higher co-financing rates than originally proposed and at the same time, we will have achieved the possibility of increasing the co-financing rate by 10 percentage points for the member states most affected by the crisis and subject to a budgetary adjustment programme, the gradual increase of the annual advance rates to reach 3% by 2020, the strengthening of the role of local and regional authorities and partners in general in planning and implementing the cohesion policy, the thematic concentration on a specific number of priorities, the possibility of multi-stage programmes, the simplification of the rules, the eligibility of the vat, the fact that the entitlements for the special development measures will have to be paid by the end of 2013 and the new rules on the collection of excise duties, the fact that the allocation of the special development measures to the regions concerned will be exempted from the end of 2013 and the new rules on the collection of excise duties, the '90th anniversary of the end of the crisis' and the '90th anniversary of the accession of the republic of cyprus to the european union'.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the development of the internal market is a very important one. the commission and the council are now once again blackmailing the member states with the macroeconomic conditions to implement the harsh neoliberal policies that lead to the one-way street of austerity and impoverishment. the dependence of regional financing on these macroeconomic conditions means that inequalities between european regions are growing, poverty and unemployment are worsening and the countries of the south are being condemned to permanent underdevelopment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they reduce the european social fund funding and exclude from the additional funding countries that are suffering from the crisis. it is regrettable that the european parliament, despite the conditions it had set out in the beginning, now consistently agrees to all these outcomes, namely a pseudo-cohesion policy, a pseudo-development policy and a pseudo-democracy.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european cohesion fund is a good one, but it is not enough. the committee on regional development, after substantial dialogue between the members of the european parliament, has drawn up a very good plan, which the council has tried to weaken. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is true that in the past this fund has been accused of environmental damage and has been linked in particular to projects mainly of a construction nature and to waste of resources. now, we can say that this fund is more environmentally friendly, more green and that it will finance projects that are important for the implementation of environmental policy but also for social cohesion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. we can mention waste management projects based on the principle of the hierarchy of management methods rather than projects mainly for landfilling waste, projects for the management of water resources based on the water framework directive, projects that preserve and do not destroy water resources. it is important that the european cohesion fund will finance projects to promote renewable energy sources and energy saving, both for public buildings and for housing, which is new. this is particularly important in an era of energy poverty and can contribute both to job creation and social cohesion. it also provides for the restoration of ecosystems and special natura sites, the protection of biodiversity and also the promotion of combined transport and multimodal transport systems, in contrast to the projects of the past which concerned only i.x cars. we have insisted strongly on the integration of the rights of persons with disabilities in the design and implementation of projects and on the involvement of the local community and regional authorities in regional planning. we can do many things, and we can especially strengthen the participation of the local community in the planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of these projects, so that bureaucracy and waste of taxes and corruption are reduced.
mr president, i congratulate all the rapporteurs on their contribution to such an important issue as regional policy, which is setting rules for absorbing a total of 325 billion for the period 2014-2020. in the present economic climate, the structural funds are the most important instrument for stimulating growth and job creation. provisions such as those for simplifying procedures and improving the administrative capacity and coordination of all actors involved are key factors in the success and effectiveness of absorption. as in the rest of europe, smes are the backbone of the economy in greece, accounting for about 86% of jobs. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the most important challenge for the future, however, is to create the right macroeconomic environment to attract foreign investors who will bring their businesses to europe and enable us to both increase production and maintain our jobs in our territory.
mr president, the eu's false "cohesion policy" is a tool to support the big monopoly groups with money that plunders the european union of the people's income through the cruel exploitation of the working class. in greece, the 16 billion announced by the greek government and the european union are earmarked, as commissioner hahn said, for motorways and renewable energy sources, i.e. high-yield sectors for capital but offering few temporary and low-paid jobs. at the same time, hundreds of thousands of ordinary families are seeing their homes go up in flames, freezing to death, suffering from unbearable taxes and being denied basic health care, while their children are being crammed into cold, squalid classrooms with no teachers and no infrastructure. projects for public housing, school and health infrastructure and flood protection and seismic shielding have never been and will never be eligible because they are not profitable. the new feature of so-called 'regional policy' is that it can be used as a sanctions tool and as a means of speeding up the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy thanks to 'macro-economic selectivity'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this "vision" of capitalist development is hell for the working people.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, madam vice-president, the report we are discussing tonight is a milestone in the european union's journey towards the implementation of the fundamental principle of equality and towards the promotion of its objectives of a participatory society and a competitive economy. the european parliament regards the commission's proposal as a success and i congratulate commissioner viviane reding on her commitment and the fight she has put into making it a reality. as early as 2011, in a report for which i had the honour of being rapporteur, the european parliament called on the european institutions and national governments to take action to tackle the under-representation of women on boards. the clear, realistic and coherent proposal put forward by the two parliamentary committees is the fruit of excellent cooperation between the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs of both committees, and i would like to thank them warmly. our common goal is to create the conditions that will make things change for equality and for the economy. the proposal for a directive under discussion, for a percentage of women on the boards of listed companies of at least 40% by 2020, presents many challenges. it should not be seen, in the context of a superficial or reactionary view, as imposing quotas. it is a noble endeavour that aspires to offer transparency, meritocracy and opportunities to worthy women to run for those board seats that are worthy of their qualifications. the listing companies have a moral obligation to serve these principles effectively but also have an interest in having talented women on their decision-making bodies. they will do so to increase their dynamism, to better approach new consumer markets, to adapt to the new form of business governance and to innovate in general. the diversity of talent translates into better economic performance for businesses. that's what all the research proves. the european union is in great need of it because of the recession affecting some of its economies, because of the anaemic growth in others, because of the rising unemployment. if we look closely at the boards of directors of listed companies, private or public, we find an overwhelming presence of men and we see, in many cases, controversial choices that could very well be replaced by more worthy female candidates. and yet, despite the commitments undertaken by companies, despite the many worthwhile efforts made by various companies to promote female potential within their ranks, the steps to the top are still too timid. progress is only made where legislative measures have been taken. the positive experiences of these countries inspire us to emulate them at european level for equality and for the functioning of the single market, a common area where the same european principles must be applied, where human resources must be used to add value to development and cohesion. our proposal takes account of the different levels of start-up of firms in their efforts to achieve the objective and therefore we propose to strengthen the provision for effective sanctions against firms that do not take effective and convincing action. i believe that tomorrow our proposal will be voted in favour and that we will send a strong message to the council, to the european societies and to the social partners. it is time for the council to assume its responsibilities for adopting the regulation and preparing the implementation of the directive in the member states.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i should like to express my satisfaction at the positive approach taken by the majority of my colleagues to the proposal for a directive and the report tabled by mrs regner and myself. i would like to express my confidence that this process which is now beginning will indeed change the situation. women's talents will become more visible and accepted. companies are looking for effective executives at all levels. equality may not be their first concern, but it has been found that companies do not discriminate, they do not have the opportunity to discover female executives. this is the first change that this new directive will bring about. i would like to refer to the fears that have been expressed and i start with the fear of the phenomenon of the 'golden skirt'. the directive is aimed at preventing this. it is certain that some women, for whatever reasons, would be on some of the boards. the golden gown would only come about if there was not a process that would give many women the opportunity to be on many boards. the fear was also expressed that the burden of the requirements of the legislation would push businesses out of europe. but if it is possible for companies not to take the opportunity to renew their staff at a high level, if it is possible for them not to have confidence in themselves, that they can adapt to a new situation, if it is possible for them not to have confidence in the multi-talented female potential! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i'm just finishing up something else. i am sure that this initiative will bring a wind of change in other areas as well. businesses will become more competitive, more adaptable to change, but i am sure they will also set an example for other sectors, such as the fields of politics and public life. i am sure that we shall see the fruits of this directive in the market and in public life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the council will show the same goodwill and that it will come to our aid.
the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on:- report by mr la via, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy (com (2011) 0628 - c7-0341/2011 - 2011/0288 ((cod))), (a7-0363/2013), (a7-0362/2011 (cod)) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy (com (2011) 0628 - c7-0361/2011 (cod)) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy (com (2011) 0728 - c7-0362/2011 (com (2011) 0728 - c7-0362/2011)), on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy (com (com (2011) 0728 - c7-036214/2011)), on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, regulation (eu) no c7-036214/2013 (com (eu) no c7-06-063)), on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and council on the financing, regulation (eu) on the common agricultural policy (com (2011) 07282146 - c7-0363146 - c7-03634) and the common agricultural and rural development framework of the european parliament and rural development of agricultural and rural development aid to agricultural and rural development of the european union, regulation (com (2011 - cities) regulation (com (2011 - c7-06-06-06-06-06-0
the new cap leaves member states with a great deal of choice and flexibility. this is necessary when designing rural development programmes to take account of the specific characteristics of each region. however, this possibility is now extended to the way in which direct aid is distributed. the common dimension of the cap is being weakened and the potential for widening disparities in the implementation of the cap and in economic and environmental outcomes in each country is being increased. the commission has not answered the question: 'how will the member states affected by the economic crisis make equal use of the rural development programmes? "i'm not sure. we have not answered the question of how we are going to avoid increasing the gaps for member states with weaknesses in the functioning of the institutions. but today, in particular, the use of the union's resources is inextricably linked to the effective functioning of institutions in each member state in order to ensure the effective implementation of the cap, the dissemination of knowledge and the equal provision of information to european producers.
in writing. the agreement on the new multiannual financial framework is undoubtedly a highlight of the current term of office of the european parliament. although the final budget does not meet initial expectations, it does contain some optimistic actions for the future, some of which are new. in total, some €960 billion in appropriations and €908 billion in payments will be allocated to eu actions. of these resources, 373.2 billion (39%) is earmarked for the common agricultural policy, 325.1 billion (34%) will be absorbed by the cohesion policy for growth and employment and 125.6 billion (13.1%) will be channelled to research and technology. it is true that, compared with the current budget (2007-2013), there is a slight reduction in resources, which the member states have cited as the reason for the economic crisis and the budgetary constraints they face. the outcome of the negotiations, as reflected in this report, which i voted in favour of, provides greece with valuable resources for the next seven years, particularly in those areas which can act as a steam engine for the reversal of the economic climate and the achievement of sustainable growth rates, a growth based on the comparative advantages of our country and investment in human resources, research and innovation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint conclusions of the conciliation, according to which the level of the eu budget is set for 2014 at eur 142.6 billion for commitments and eur 135.5 billion for payments. the results are positive because they take account of several of parliament's priorities and because they support programmes that contribute to growth and job creation, combat social exclusion and put citizens at the centre of the european construction and promote the eu abroad. however, we cannot be entirely satisfied with the result in payments, despite the fact that parliament managed to add €350 million to the council's position, already considerably reduced both in relation to the draft budget for 2014 and in relation to the budget for 2013. the low level of the 2014 payment ceiling, combined with the accumulation of payments from 2013 carried over to 2014 - despite the approval of eur 11,2 billion - is likely to create a situation in which the agreed amount of payments will not be able to fully cover the needs. the european parliament is therefore ready to use all the flexibility provided for in the mff to ensure that the eu respects its legal obligations towards beneficiaries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the financing of the structural funds for cyprus. although the impact of the economic crisis on the level of prosperity of some member states within the euro area had already been recognised in the structural funds allocation included in the february 2013 european council conclusions, the macro-financial assistance programme for cyprus had not yet been decided. the european parliament and the council have therefore reached the political decision that additional assistance should be granted to cyprus to address the difficult economic situation on the island. for 2014, it is proposed to increase the commitment appropriations by eur 100 million. as this amount exceeds the margin below the expenditure ceiling of title 1b, the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument at the same time for a total amount of eur 89,33 million. it is important that the eu supports countries facing the negative consequences of the economic crisis, in particular through the investment opportunities offered by the assistance from the structural funds. this is one of the most tangible expressions of solidarity on the part of the union and constitutes a decisive contribution to the economic recovery efforts of these countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget (dab) no 9 of 2013 on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to deal with the damage caused by the forest fires in romania in summer 2012 and the floods in germany, austria and the czech republic in spring 2013. the commission has also received a request from the united kingdom to provide additional information on the implementation of the 2014 budget. although the council's initial position was to fully finance this eur 400,5 million ppp through reallocation from various budget lines, the final agreement provides for eur 250,5 million to be credited to the 2013 budget and the remaining eur 150 million to be from new appropriations in the 2014 budget. this means that eur 200 million will be available to finance research programmes as specified in the overall transfer proposed by the european commission. it should be noted, however, that the european parliament maintains its consistent position that, in principle, the financing of special instruments such as the solidarity fund should be done with fresh money, above and beyond the ceilings of the mff.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the drought and forest fires in romania in the summer of 2012 and the floods in germany, austria and the czech republic in the spring of 2013. priority shall be given to the speedy restoration of normal living conditions for the people affected by the floods and forest fires and to the rapid recovery of economic activity in these areas. the eu solidarity fund is once again demonstrating its importance in responding to major natural disasters by providing financial support to the affected states. however, the fund can and must be mobilised more quickly. the three institutions must therefore work to enable the solidarity fund to intervene with even less delay and with even greater flexibility. in this way we will be able to ensure the real added value of the instrument in question.
in writing. the two european satellite navigation systems, galileo and egnos, are entering their final phase, albeit with considerable delays. galileo will not be able to become fully operational in 2013 as planned, and egnos is not currently ensuring coverage of all member states' territories. i voted in favour of the report, which contains specific proposals to avoid delays and maximise the benefits. to understand the importance of these two programmes, it should be noted that today 6% to 7% of the eu-27's gdp, or €800 billion, depends on the american gps system. the development of european programmes will generate a net gain of eur 68,63 billion for the union over the life cycle of the system, i.e. from 2014 to 2034. it is therefore clear that the timely start-up of these systems is critical and decisive for the european economy as a whole, but also for each member state individually.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr marinescu's report. the european satellite navigation policy is important for improving efficiency in many sectors of the economy as well as in many areas of citizens' daily lives. the existence of a new legal basis for the long-term operation, maintenance and management of radio navigation systems is important.
in writing. i voted against the report on the common provisions of the funds, firstly because it institutes 'macroeconomic selectivity' and secondly because it is based on the failed model of the eu's neoliberal economic governance and the europe 2020 strategy. the dependence of regional financing on the compliance with reactionary and anti-people macroeconomic demands means the permanent condemnation to underdevelopment of the crisis-stricken countries. the last possibility of financing, through the european funds, actions and alternative development policies which promote solidarity, full employment, the reduction of unemployment and poverty is now being lost. overall, the design of cohesion policy and the funds for the new programming period is not linked to the real social and economic problems facing europe's regions and citizens. cohesion policy is losing its role and is becoming a watchdog for neoliberal austerity policies and a punishment for the 'disciplinary' european regions that are facing problems. it is based on statistics and planning of the past five years which do not correspond to the current socioeconomic environment, as shaped by the crisis. at such a critical juncture, esf funding is being cut by 7 billion, while those countries most affected by the crisis and by the memorandum programmes are excluded from additional funding.
in writing. i voted in favour of the regulation on common provisions for the european structural and investment funds, which provides, inter alia, for a strengthened role for local and regional authorities, simplification of rules, the possibility of financing from multiple funds, improved management and control systems, more targeted technical assistance, wider use of innovative financial instruments, ex ante conditionalities that can be objectively assessed to ensure that investments are effective and have added value, measures for youth employment and social inclusion. i would also like to highlight the success of the european parliament's negotiating team in increasing the prefinancing and cofinancing rates and reducing the rate of the reserve to free up resources more quickly. however, we must not forget that compromise is the key word, which means that all sides had to accept issues that they are not fully satisfied with, such as the inclusion of macroeconomic conditions in the general regulation. now everything is in place to start implementing the programmes of the new cohesion policy period, which, with its undoubted value, is the eu's main investment tool and can contribute to recovery and development efforts and to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i am satisfied with the agreement between the european commission, the european parliament and the council on the european social fund, the most important fund for promoting employment and combating poverty in europe. it is worth noting that 20% of the fund's allocation to each member state is earmarked for social inclusion and the fight against poverty, which allows greece to obtain significant funds that it can, in this difficult economic period, channel towards vulnerable social groups. the simplification of the procedures for the use of these resources is also important, as it will allow the country to further improve absorption rates in the future to the benefit of citizens. a major effort is being made to integrate the unemployed into society and to ensure their access to resources and services, with special reference to support for young people, for whom the esf is promoting innovative solutions to maximise and improve the quality of employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european regional development fund (erdf) and the investment for growth and jobs goal, which aims to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the eu by correcting regional imbalances in the eu in terms of growth, productivity and employment. it is essential that the four main objectives supported by the european parliament in the negotiations have been achieved, namely greater flexibility for the regions in terms of thematic concentration, a more ecological approach with a higher concentration on low-carbon measures, more opportunities for job creation in enterprises, with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, and additional social aspects such as financing for sustainable tourism and culture. in addition, greater power has been given to urban areas in decision-making on sustainable urban development issues and greater responsibilities have been assigned to urban authorities for projects related to the selection of actions. finally, it should be noted that the erdf regulation contains specific provisions concerning exceptions to the rules on 'thematic concentration' (minimum amounts for specific objectives) in island regions and phasing out regions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european regional development fund and the european territorial cooperation objective, which is one of the objectives of cohesion policy and provides the framework for the implementation of joint actions and policy exchanges between national, regional and local actors from different member states and third countries. in the course of the negotiations, the european parliament achieved better standardisation and simplification of rules and procedures between member states, inclusive geographical coverage and synergies with macro-regional and sea-basin strategies - a development which is particularly important for islands, while it should be noted that in justified cases, cross-border cooperation for the outermost regions will be possible along maritime borders of more than 150 km. in addition, there will be increased flexibility in the choice of partners, thematic objectives and investment priorities, and a greater emphasis on technical assistance and staff costs, given the specific nature of the european territorial cooperation objective. with these improvements and additions, the european parliament supports all those actions which lead to an effective and efficient cooperation of the parties concerned in order to achieve the objective of territorial cohesion, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the cohesion fund, the main instrument for providing assistance to member states with a gdp per capita of less than 90% of the eu average to create the necessary network of basic infrastructure that would not be possible to build with national investments of the so-called cohesion countries. the european parliament has succeeded in broadening the scope of the fund to include support for energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources in the housing sector and to allow support for high-efficiency district heating and cogeneration as an investment priority. it is important that the investment priorities pay particular attention to environmental issues, that it will be possible to invest in the waste and water sectors to meet the needs identified by the member states and that reference is made to the regulation on support for the natura 2000 network and environmentally friendly transport.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the rules of operation of the european groupings of territorial cooperation (egtcs). in the course of negotiations with the council, the european parliament succeeded in making the establishment of the egtcs easier and faster, simplifying their system and reducing the administrative burden, reviewing their activities, opening up the egtcs to regions outside the eu and clarifying some of their operating rules. the ppas will also be open to all public undertakings providing public services (economic services of general interest), including those governed by private law. this will facilitate territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy, water, health, education and vocational training. the abovementioned improvements will contribute to a better and more efficient functioning of the eeigs, so that these groups can achieve greater added value and can more effectively promote cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation.
in writing. the "new reform" of the cap for 2014-2020 gives the lucky shot to the poor and middle class farmers because it puts the poor farmer of the family farm and the small clergy in an even more tragic position. the new system reduces subsidies by at least 35%, thus drastically reducing farmers' incomes. in the end, only the big farmers and the capitalist agricultural enterprises will remain, which at lower production costs will absorb most of the subsidies and concentrate the land and production in their hands. the full integration of the cap into the objectives of the eu's anti-people europe 2020 strategy will have beneficial effects on the monopoly groups active in the field of agricultural production and supplies and in the production and distribution of food. the reduction in community funds for agricultural expenditure is accelerating the process of removing small and poor farmers from production and is supporting capitalist restructuring in the field of the agricultural economy, with the result that the living conditions of the rural poor and the working people in general are worsening. market liberalisation will create new risks of large fluctuations in producer prices, which will worsen the position of small producers and working consumers who are confronted with increasing precision and ensure superprofits for monopolies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability and the rules on discharge for certain member states. it is vital to give countries affected by the consequences of the financial crisis the possibility of increasing the rates of community co-financing so that investment from cohesion policy funds can continue unhindered. this will ensure that these countries are not deprived of much-needed investment that can contribute to their efforts to overcome the crisis and to economic recovery and growth.
the committee on fisheries adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the mr president, i would first of all like to express my conviction that horizon 2020 and the european institute of technology are two of the most important issues that this parliament has discussed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think the european union made a mistake when it backed out of the ambitious 100 billion programme. i do not think that europe's fantasy of being a world leader can be realised with the money it has. i am concerned that, in terms of technological development based on the new conditions, there is a development gap between the centre and the periphery of europe which risks creating an apartheid more permanent than the economic one.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, despite my objections to the inadequate - in my view - size of the horizon 2020 budget, i recognise that its structure, its priorities and the new tools it creates make it an extremely comprehensive research and innovation programme that has all the prerequisites to become europe's 'growth engine', based on scientific excellence. i am personally proud to have had the opportunity to work for a long time with the good colleagues of the european institute of innovation and technology, the eit. i am convinced that the eit is the missing link in the european union's research strategy and that it will enable us to tackle the 'european paradox', namely that europe has high-quality scientific research, but does not always succeed in turning it into successful business activities, high-tech companies and jobs and growth. the eit is designed as a catalyst for innovation and i believe it will radically transform the way scientific research produced by the european union is exploited and transformed into economic and social benefit. i am optimistic about the five new kics (knowledge and innovation communities) we are creating in areas of great importance for the future of the european union and wish we had sufficient budget to allow us to create more kics in areas where there is already a well-documented need and demand for it. the eight kics that we will have by 2020 will, i hope, prove enough to allow the eit to emerge as a pole of excellence in the european union. i am extremely optimistic about the investment we are making, through the eit, in 20,000 postgraduate and doctoral students by 2020, who will graduate with the eit seal and, above all, have the entrepreneurial skills to turn the product of their science into social welfare, wealth and jobs. i should like to say that i am very proud of the regional innovation scheme, which we have managed to integrate into the eit. this is a very important tool that will enable innovation partnerships to link up with their respective kics and create synergies with the structural and national funds. this will make the eit stronger and allow the eit innovation model to reach out to less developed regions of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to me that the eit's operating model based on the 'knowledge triangle' (education, research, innovation) bridges the gap between the laboratory and the market, the university and the real economy, knowledge and entrepreneurship. the eit brings a new model of innovation that is much closer to european conditions, specificities and values and should be exemplified by all member states in the way it operates.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in countries with the biggest problems, like greece, we see seed banks of new businesses, we see startups of people with a passion for work, with inspiration, with ideas, with new proposals, we see new businesses that are in many cases models of organization and operation. here lies the way out of the crisis. we have those capabilities. it is right that what was said by the speakers and what was said by the commissioner, that the cosme and erasmus programmes for young entrepreneurs can be of decisive help. what was not said, however, is that even with the willingness of these people, we have low success rates of new ventures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the development of the internal market. the conclusion is that we need such expertise for the time being, we need everyone to be informed, we need to make full use of these funds and we need, of course, to avoid the need for any kind of bureaucracy in each member state.
the joint debate is closed. i have received a motion for a resolution. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, 21 november, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by maria-elena koppá, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy) (14605/1/2012 c7-0000/2013 2013/2105 ((ini)) (a7-0360/2013), and- report by michael gahler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european industrial and technological base in the field of defence (com (2013) 0542 2013/2125 ((ini)) (a7-0358/2013).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the the european council in december, madam president, is the most appropriate opportunity for the leaders of europe - and for all of us - to discuss again, after a long time, the challenges facing europe in the field of defence and security. in this context, we must consider how we can work together better and more efficiently in this very difficult period for europe. the european parliament wishes to send a strong message to the heads of state or government who will be discussing the matter at the european council. the message is that europe must move forward in this area too and that coordination and cooperation are the necessary prerequisites for strengthening the european union's role in the world and for making it a credible actor on the international stage. the european union cannot be just one large market. the common defence and security policy is an integral part of the european fabric and of the common european identity. i hope that the council will take the european parliament's position seriously as it will be expressed in the vote tomorrow. our world is changing rapidly and the union now faces new threats and new challenges in the eastern neighbourhood, the middle east, north africa and a zone of instability stretching from the horn of africa to the indian ocean. new threats are being added to the old ones, such as terrorism, cyber threats, the effects of climate change, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, organised crime, at the same time as emerging economies play an increasingly important role globally in the economic, military and political spheres. the union has a wide range of military and civilian means at its disposal to deal with this complex new environment. the lisbon treaty provides the legal framework, but unfortunately it remains largely inactive. in a time of economic and financial crisis, defence budgets across europe are under great pressure. every euro spent on defence must be fully justified to the taxpayer. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the international negotiations, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the negotiations with the countries of central and eastern europe. we need cooperation, coordination, but also trust between partners. the report attaches great importance to maritime safety and calls on the high representative to draw up a european maritime strategy. it talks about the importance of energy security and infrastructure security. it refers to telecommunications security, internet security. the scope for action under the common defence and security policy is now much wider than in the past. the union must operate on land, in the air, at sea, in space, in cyberspace. the security and protection of borders is also closely linked to defence policy, at a time when the pressure on the european union, and particularly on certain member states, is increasing day by day. madam president, with this report we are expressing what i believe is a common demand of most political groups and we are calling on the heads of state and government to commit themselves to strengthening their cooperation for a more competitive and more effective european defence. we call on them to decide on the next steps and to set out a road map for the future of the common defence and security policy. we live in a time when we have to do more with less. the solution in the field of defence and security is to fight for more europe, not less. in conclusion, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have been instrumental in formulating the powerful message we all want to send.
madam president, i congratulate both rapporteurs on the reports they have presented to us. i believe that these reports will help the december meeting to fill a large gap in security and defence policy at european level. so far, the mutual assistance and solidarity clauses in article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union and article 222 of the treaty of lisbon have remained blank. first of all, we must guarantee, as the european union, the borders of all the member states. i should like to stress that for some countries of the union, defence spending is unconscionable. in greece, they have been 7% of gdp for decades. in 2008, they were capped at 3,5%. the last three years they have exceeded 2.2% of gdp after the cuts that have destroyed wages, pensions and education in greece. according to nato, greece is the second country in military spending after the united states. i would also like to stress that greece, under the threat of attack from turkey, has been exploited by friendly countries, which have promoted the supply of military equipment at exorbitant prices, after first corrupting the country's political system. in fact, traveling officials of high to senior level demanded and enforced the supply of war materials. for those who say that the greek people alone are to blame for greece's downfall, i ask them to look at greece's balance of payments over the last fifteen years to see that the bulk of the loans were issued within the european union.
madam president, i thank the council and commissioner tajani for their comments and for their presence. i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mrs kopp and mr gahler, on their excellent reports, which really express parliament's position in favour of european union. the question is: can there be a union without a common defence? there's no such thing. it would be like talking about a state without a defense system. the truth is that for many years now the effort begun in 2001 has been abandoned, with the result that money has been spent without any impact and the european defence agency has not been used, while at the same time there have been quarrels and conflicts between the member states, which we know about. it is also disappointing that the foreign and defence council has not reached any important conclusions. can we expect anything more important from the european council? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the comments made by commissioner tajani are very important. it is characteristic that europe produces tanks in sixteen lines while the united states produces in one line. it is therefore clear that on the one hand the provisions of the lisbon treaty have not been fully implemented and on the other hand we could have achieved the same and better results with less money, because there is less money today because of the cuts and budgetary policy. the european council, which is the first meeting of the european council, is a forum for the exchange of views on the future of the union.
madam president, the common security and defence policy of the european union, as it is developing and in view of the december summit, is promoting the further militarization of the european union. in the context of the capitalist crisis and competition, the monopoly groups, the institutions of the european union and the bourgeois governments are calling for the establishment of a permanent military headquarters, a european union war budget and increased military capabilities by the creation of a permanent euro-army, which will have upgraded military equipment and infrastructure. they promote the strengthening of eu-nato cooperation and the upgrading of eu combat units, not only to support nato missions but also for independent union combat action, both in its immediate neighbourhood and thousands of kilometres away from europe's borders. these aspirations lead to the adaptation of national defence structures and military equipment to the aggressive imperialist objectives of the common security and defence policy of the european union. at the same time, the concentration of the european union's defence industry and the restructuring that is forcing the dismantling of both the defence industry in greece and sectors related to the country's defence, such as shipbuilding and repair, are being promoted. for these reasons, i believe that the values and interests of the european union which are upheld by the common security and defence policy of the european union are contrary to the interests of the peoples.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the madam president, after this debate it is, i think, absolutely clear that the great majority of members and of the political groups want europe to move forward in the field of defence and security. we've come a long way, putting aside many of our differences and agreeing on common goals. but there is still a lot to be done, and i believe that we should not put a damper on our ambition. we must work to ensure that the common defence and security policy, which is an integral part of a stronger, more autonomous europe at international level, becomes truly 'common' and provides security for european citizens in an increasingly complex world. the transatlantic institution was and remains strong. the development of the common defence and security policy is not a rival to nato. the european union is also a member of nato, which includes 22 of the 28 member states. the union, however, with its various instruments and means, can act where nato, as a military alliance, is not welcome. we call for close cooperation, avoiding overlaps and fully respecting the decision-making autonomy of each of the two bodies. i would like to thank commissioner tajani for his contribution and for his presence. i am sorry, however, that the person most responsible for this matter, the high representative, mrs ashton, is not here. i would like to thank her for the excellent text she has presented, which sets out the scale of the challenges and the opportunities for europe. i would perhaps like a more detailed analysis of the causes of the weaknesses, as well as suggestions for overcoming them. but this does not diminish the importance of the text, which sets the framework within which the important debate in the european council will take place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced that those who wish to move forward with the common defence and security policy must be able to do so without being prevented from doing so by others. in any case, the european project itself has always been utopian, with big ideas and with a common goal of ever greater integration. the common defence and security policy cannot be an exception.
in writing. the eu's common security and defence policy, as it develops and in the run-up to the december 2013 summit, is promoting even greater militarisation of the eu. the monopoly groups and the eu, in the context of the capitalist crisis, are becoming even more aggressive, both internally at the expense of its own peoples in the member states and against the peoples of third countries. the political representatives of capital, in their reports to the european parliament, express even more aggressively the needs of the monopoly groups, in the inter-imperialist competitions that are raging, for the division and domination of the markets. they call for the establishment of a 'permanent military operational headquarters', they call for a european union military budget, increased military capabilities to form a permanent eurostrategy, with upgraded military equipment and infrastructure, capable of intervening in every corner of the planet. they are promoting greater eu-nato cooperation and at the same time increasing the eu's military capabilities, not only to support nato missions, but also for autonomous eu war action, in its immediate neighbourhood and thousands of kilometres from europe's borders. it is precisely these aspirations of the eu and governments that require the adaptation of national defence structures and the orientation of war equipment to the aggressive, imperialist objectives of the eu's political, security and defence policy.
mr president - thank you, commissioner - welcome to the house. i have here your communication, a communication which is a first step towards building the social dimension of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. when unemployment has swept over the younger generation in europe, when poverty is visiting more and more families uninvited, when people have been losing their homes, their jobs, their dignity for at least three years, you speak in your communication, in general and vaguely, of social indicators. we want, we demand here in the european parliament, that the indicators on unemployment, on poverty, on health care should be binding. we want, in other words, to see these social indicators not just on paper but taken into account alongside economic indicators when decisions are to be taken on people's lives in the context of emu. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tax authorities of the member states are able to provide the necessary information to the tax authorities of the member states. but you will all agree that it is not capable of solving the problem of tax evasion and fraud on its own. i do not mean that the rapporteur and the committee have not done everything possible. i am referring to the fact that the union is avoiding to see the problem of tax evasion and fraud at its root. the commission's report is a good example of the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of the environment. secondly, the scope is selected and limited and is usually limited to employees, pensioners, ordinary citizens and does not include other areas where the great evasion takes place. thirdly, there is no real will to hit what we call 'the big professional tax evaders', where there is really the big tax evasion throughout the union. on the contrary, commissioner, in many countries, as in my own, citizens are living under austerity policies while at the same time being subjected to an unprecedented tax burden. so to tackle the problem effectively and to achieve the objective, we need a different tax policy, fair, redistributive, which will certainly control international trade activities, the profits of multinationals, intra-group transactions, tax havens and offshore companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. the 'horizon 2020' programme is one of the most ambitious and innovative policies introduced under the new multiannual financial framework (2014-2020). for the first time, a single 'common strategic framework for research and innovation' (csfri) brings together elements that have not been integrated into a common perspective. in particular, it is the continuation of the actions of the 7th framework programme and the innovation and competitiveness programme together with the european institute of innovation and technology. this will, within a single programme, bring together the entire innovation chain from basic research to the market, to emphasise the competitiveness of european industry and to create more opportunities for young scientists. at the same time, this point is of particular importance for greece, much attention is paid to social innovation, i.e. to the financing of new, smart and innovative proposals to address social challenges.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs madurell's report. horizon 2020 integrates research and innovation funding for the first time in a single common strategic framework. the financial and economic crisis has hit european industries hard. research and innovation must be strengthened if we are to emerge from this crisis strengthened and get the european economy back on track.
in writing. in order to respond to the multiple challenges facing europe today, it must find ways to develop its capacity for innovation - with the aim of providing viable and effective solutions. in this context, i voted in favour of mr lamberts' report on the strengthening of the european institute of technology (eit), because it is moving in the right direction in terms of strengthening the capacity for innovation at european level. the eit promotes closer cooperation between universities, research centres and businesses, thus enhancing the eu's capacity for innovation.
in writing. the kke meps voted against all the regulations of the eu research and innovation programme horizon 2020 because it strengthens the subordination of university research and public research centres to the needs of european monopoly groups and orients research to new areas of profitability, as defined by the eu's reactive europe 2020 strategy. the eu's strategic research framework is accelerating reactive restructuring at universities and research institutions. the partnerships between universities and businesses are turning over to big business the university and public infrastructure, its researchers and staff. horizon 2020 will not fund research programmes to meet the growing needs of the people, but only those that serve monopoly profits, the strengthening of repressive mechanisms, and for the first time also linked to military purposes. through the 'centres of excellence', which will collect the largest share of funding, the monopolisation of knowledge is increasing and the weakening of public research centres and infrastructures across the eu, as they do not meet the requirements of business competitiveness.
in writing. the debate on the need for reliable and accurate european statistics is not new. european statistics have two main purposes, both of equal importance: the commission's communication on the future of the european union's external relations is based on the following principles: first, it highlights important elements that shape policy decisions and, second, it acts as a barometer for the state of our economy and society. unfortunately, there is a crisis of confidence in european statistics among the public today. the public debt crisis has actually made the situation worse. the present report, which i voted in favour of, therefore comes at an important time. it is clear that there must be a system of checks and balances between the european statistical office (eurostat) and the audit authorities at national level in order to enable all parties to control the production, quality and reliability of statistical data. in addition, a detailed review of their work should be carried out on a semi-annual basis and a statistical code of practice should be drawn up, which should be applied by all to any relevant research.
in writing. this report brings together the progress, eures and the microfinance mechanism programmes into a single programme for social change and innovation, which i supported. these programmes provide practical applications for small enterprises to access microcredit facilities. this is particularly possible through progress. at the same time, eures provides access to cross-border advisory services, which is very important for the greek border regions. in its current form, the programme provides the above tools by reflecting existing labour relations and conditions regarding free movement and cross-border mobility, but in its new form it will be strengthened by setting clear objectives for social progress and employment and will support proposals, ideas and actions driven by a spirit of social innovation and social experimentation. the programme is centred on the fight against unemployment and poverty. in order to maximise the impact within its scope, this strategy will gain new potential, for example by providing funding for specific mobility and cross-border partnership programmes as well as for the training and qualification of eures staff. the programme's greatest effectiveness lies in better coordination between the relevant actors and civil society.
in writing. the life 2014-2020 programme aims primarily at developing and maintaining a european union network of enthusiastic promoters of eu environmental strategies and policies. ngos, research and other institutions, as well as design and technical consultancy firms, are being mobilised to this end, drawing on eu funding. experience of the programme's implementation in the period 2007-2013 in our country shows that the 10 actions financed with eur 14.9 million were distributed among three private companies, three well-known and non-exceptional ngos and two public research foundations. the new version of the programme is innovative in that it includes 'integrated projects', i.e. projects promoting the privatisation of both municipal waste management (with a focus on incineration) and collection, the privatisation of the country's water resources, the development and support, even in times of crisis, of trade in pollutants, the safeguarding of the environmental integrity of the res monopolies, especially wind turbine monopolies, and the penetration of monopolies in the electricity sector. the programme provides for a community contribution of up to 80%, as it constitutes another pillar of support for the monopolies.
in writing. the life programme is considered one of the most successful european environmental action programmes. it should be noted that in the 20 years of the programme's existence, greece has benefited not only from the initiation and implementation of targeted and planned actions but also from the response to emergency needs and natural disasters. the programme's contribution to the regeneration of the national forest of parnitas and to the restoration of the natural environment following the devastating fires in the peloponnese is cited, for example. the role of the natura network in protecting greece's unique natural landscapes and beauties should also be emphasised. life's share of the overall eu budget, however, remains small at 0.3%, which is not justified by the major challenges that require an integrated environmental strategy in europe and the member states. the present report, which i voted in favour of, proposes an increase in the resources allocated to the life programme, while at the same time - and this directly concerns our country - it provides for an increase in the rate of community participation (up to 75%) in the less economically developed european regions.
mr president, i congratulate mrs rodust and mr stevenson on the important work they have done and i acknowledge the excellent contribution of commissioner damannakis. this is the first time that the reform of the fisheries policy has been voted through the co-decision procedure, and this is a victory for the european parliament and the european institutions. the aim of the reform is to restore the viability of fisheries immediately, to combat overfishing and unacceptable practices such as discarding. all of this is now protected and enforced through a regulatory framework. the whole process, the result of many hours of meetings and negotiations, will be meaningless if the member states do not comply with the rules we have voted for and if there is no effective and reliable system of monitoring and control. the report on the organization of the market in fish farming is considered very important and crucial at a time when the european industry is called upon to compete with those of third countries.
rapporteur. − mr president, we are here to discuss a very thorny issue in parliament: the proposal for the north-east atlantic fisheries and deep-sea fisheries. what happened was that our fishermen were fishing in the coastal atlantic waters. once fish stocks were depleted there, they moved further inside the great depths of the atlantic, fishing deeper and deeper into the sea, reaching more and more seabeds. this led to the discovery of new fisheries, fish that were argued over at the beginning, fish that had never been targeted before. but what we soon found was that the fish that live at such great depths are very vulnerable. sometimes they are only able to reproduce once they reach 35; sometimes they live for over 100 years, or even 150. this means that if you catch the big ones their stocks are quickly depleted – and this is what happened. we have cases where fish stocks were depleted in just two years and, 20 years later, they have still to recover. in 2002 we had the first access regime that brought forth some improvements but fish stocks did not return to sustainable levels and the commission has now come up with another proposal to phase out bottom trawling over a two-year period. the debate started in parliament soon after the commission released its proposal but there were severe delays. it was the first case i know of where the procedure was postponed so many times. we had two hearings – not one, but two hearings – on the issue and it was on the verge of not being voted or negotiated, for practical time reasons or simply because of big blocking majorities. members worked very intensely to find common ground within the committee on fisheries and i would like to thank carmen fraga estévez and pat the cope gallagher and all the shadows who helped to bridge the huge gaps. one side wanted very limited things while the other side wanted the commission proposal and even more. the compromise that was reached is a compromise without the commission’s basic proposal – the bottom trawling ban. there was an underlying agreement, however, that this compromise would be supported by the member states in the council. all this month i have tried to talk with the member states involved. i failed to get any commitment that this compromise can be the final outcome of negotiations. the socialist group, just one hour ago, decided to vote in favour of the introduction of the bottom trawling ban.
rapporteur. − madam president, tomorrow this plenary might decide to kill the report; it is a risk that we consciously take. can i explain why? as mr milana said, for 18 months, for three whole presidencies, the council has not even presented this issue, opened, or even started discussing this issue. when we reached this huge compromise we actually gave the industry what it wanted: to avoid the threat of banning deep sea trawling. in exchange we got the protection of the vulnerable marine ecosystems. colleagues, how many of you came to me and told me that this is a compromise which can fly in the council, that this is a compromise which can be endorsed by the council? and yet, one month after we adopted our compromise, the council did not put it on the agenda, did not even present it. i used this time to talk to the member states and the presidencies. the best we could get as a commitment from their side was: ‘vote and we will see’ or ‘we prefer your compromise to the commission proposal, but let us come together for negotiations’. if this compromise is further watered down it will become meaningless. our choice tomorrow is to go for a strong mandate with a ban and go for negotiations, or go for negotiations using our mandate as a starting point and end up with something meaningless. that is why in the socialist group we took this decision to support the reintroduction of the ban.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 10 december 2013, at 11.30.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the recommendation of ms carmen fraga estévez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco [14165/2013 - c7-0415/2013 - 2013/0315(nle) ] (a7-0417/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 10 december 2013, at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mrs lívia járóka, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the gender dimension in the european framework for national roma integration strategies [2013/2066 (ini) ] (a7-0349/2013). - the oral question by mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the progress made in implementing the member states' roma integration strategy (o-000117/2013 - b7-0528/2013).
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the mr president, the civil protection mechanism has undeniable added value and is a visible, practical and important expression of eu solidarity with its citizens, as for example with its activation after the devastating earthquake in l'aquila, italy in 2009. but the activation of the mechanism for third countries also offers considerable relief in dealing with disasters, such as those caused by the recent typhoon haiyan in the philippines. as we know, preventing disasters is of paramount importance and costs the european citizen much less than responding to them. as regards the financing of the mechanism, i cannot help but express my disappointment at the final amount of €368.42 million for actions both inside and outside the union for the next seven years, which is less than the initial proposal of €513 million. the cor recognises, however, the efforts made by most member states to streamline the system. for this reason, and in order to maximise the impact of the existing aid, the need for synergy and complementarity with other union funds is considered to be absolutely imperative.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday 10 december 2013, at 11.30.
mr president, on the basis of rule 57(2), i would like the final vote for the legislative resolution to be postponed and the issues referred to the committee to start negotiations for a first-reading agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of the 'justice' programme for the period 2014-2020, which will replace and merge the three programmes of the previous period. the aim of the programme is to promote the effective and integrated application of european union legislation in the field of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters, and to enhance access to justice in order to prevent and reduce the demand for and supply of drugs. it is important in the fight against drugs that, whereas the older drug prevention and information programme (dpip) had a public health legal basis, the new justice programme 2014-2020 is legally based on crime prevention and the suppression of illegal activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it aims at simplifying and rationalising the justice programme as it is the successor of three current programmes: civil justice (jciv), criminal justice (jpen), and the drug prevention and information programme (dpip). i believe that the merger of these programmes will enable a comprehensive funding approach in the area of justice.
in writing. the rights and citizenship programme 2014-2020 will contribute to the creation of an area where fundamental rights are promoted and protected, as enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the report, which i voted in favour of as a whole, provides for the continuation and development of activities already carried out under the current programmes, further strengthens the protection of children at risk and ensures that harmonised social services using pan-european numbers, such as the missing children hotline, will be able to apply for funding.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal, as the new programme is currently focusing on the promotion of the rights of european citizenship, the principles of non-discrimination, equality between women and men, children's rights, data protection and consumer and business issues. civil society is enthusiastic about promoting social inclusion, but it needs resources to do so.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation, as convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general.
in writing. i supported the rapporteur's proposal for the european parliament to give its consent to the ratification of the protocol to combat the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms and ammunition. the protocol will facilitate the prevention and combating of illicit trafficking in firearms by providing for more effective monitoring of such trafficking through specific marking and by strengthening cooperation and the exchange of information between the member states of the european union, as provided for in article 12 of the council's proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland concerning redundancies in nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 suppliers and subcontractors, with the total amount of aid amounting to eur 9.81 million. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken this step. however, targeted financial support from the european globalisation adjustment fund will be able to provide redundant workers with those opportunities for retraining and training which will undoubtedly prove useful in their search for new employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for germany to support redundancies at first solar manufacturing gmbh, a manufacturer of solar panels. the total amount of the support is eur 2 305 357. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was higher than the union industry's market share. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation further highlight the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund as an eu social policy tool. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. moreover, the support provided is the practical expression of the union's solidarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for denmark to support the redundancies at the vestas group wind turbine manufacturing company. the aid amounts to a total of eur 6 364 643. the group had already had to make large-scale redundancies in 2009-2010, and a new wave of redundancies followed in 2012. this is the third case where the fund is mobilised for the vestas group and the fourth case concerning the wind turbine manufacturing sector. it is clear that the negative effects of globalisation further highlight the added value of the etuc as an eu social policy tool, while the support provided is the practical expression of union solidarity. finally, the case of denmark is the best example of how this financial instrument can be equally useful in helping the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market even in economically strong countries.
in writing. the eu-canada free trade and trade agreement strengthens international monopoly groups, their penetration and free movement in markets in eu member states and canada. for the working class it will mean even greater exploitation of their labour power, for the poor self-employed and peasants even more rapid destruction. the use of names for 'protected designation of origin' (pdo) products is also a characteristic evidence of the objectives and interests served by the eu-canada agreement and its disastrous effects. among other things, the agreement grants canada the right to use the name of products with a protected designation of origin, such as feta and olive trees from the kalamoni, which are characteristic of the rural landscape of our country, in order to serve the interests of business groups. this will have dramatic consequences on the income of poor farmers, producers of these products and the self-employed who are active in the processing sector. the eu, its trade policy, the cap, its overall anti-people policy only cause suffering for the working people. the solution for growth for the benefit of the people is to disengage from the eu and to design the economy from the people's power, the only way to meet the people's needs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as it focuses specifically on ccps and csds as key critical market infrastructures that require strong recovery and resolution rules as a priority. the report also acknowledges that there are many other entities that fall under the non-bank financial institutions, including insurance companies, asset managers and payment systems. however, international work in these areas has either not yet been completed or further discussions and assessments are expected to take place in this regard.
in writing. the kke voted against the report on the eu's space industrial policy because it puts space telecommunications, navigation and geospatial services at the service of the eu's reactionary europe 2020 strategy and the interests of the war industry monopolies. the possibilities offered by space and space services can now be used to meet the needs of workers in the fields of environmental protection, transport, public education, health and culture, and protection against natural disasters. the eu is seeking to use them instead to strengthen its military means and its repressive mechanisms (drone bombers and other new generation weapons systems). the report calls for the use of eu programmes (copernicus, galileo) to further concentrate and monopolise the space industry by fewer monopolistic groups, with their multi-billion euro state subsidies. it promotes the militarization of areas of public administration and the eu research program horizon 2020 to orientate to profitable areas of exit of the over-accumulated capital, which is lagging due to the capitalist crisis, intensifying competition with the us and other imperialist centers, mutual blackmail in key military and non-military sectors.
in writing. the european parliament's final vote in favour of the eu's common fisheries policy (cfp) for 2014-2020 is a crushing blow to poor and middle-class fishermen. the cfp is being revised downwards under the pretext of controlling fish stocks. overfishing has been the eu's pretext for decades for measures that have led to a dramatic reduction in small and medium-sized fishermen and the growth of large and small-scale fish farms. the ban on discards will have a decisive impact on small fishermen, since only the large fishermen can bear the cost. the fleet reduction measures and quotas are moving in exactly the same direction, dealing a blow to the middle and coastal fisheries, with dramatic consequences for island countries such as greece. this pro-monopoly orientation of the cap is complemented by eu maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management, which allocates and delineates areas of activity and exploitation in coastal zones for the benefit of business groups operating in the various sectors linked to all economic activities related to the sea, from fishing and fish farming to tourism and energy production from the sea.
in writing. the present recommendation, which i supported, creates a reform framework capable of addressing issues such as continued overfishing, the biggest problem of the common fisheries policy. the european parliament has therefore called for future decisions on the principle of maximum sustainable yield, a fundamental rule for the sustainable management of fisheries, to be legally binding. the benefits of this initiative are manifold, as it enhances marine biodiversity and fisheries fleets, as the costs of fishing activity are reduced in proportion to the density of the stocks. the new text also raises the issue outside european waters, in line with the acquis of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, on the right to fish in the event of surplus and non-exploitation by third countries. it also provides for safeguards in cases of human rights violations and makes compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy and the rules to be laid down in the regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund a precondition for european funding. finally, it should be emphasised how the new strategy enhances transparency by setting ecological, social and economic conditions, with emphasis on the availability of scientific data.
in writing. the kke voted against the report on the eu's civil protection mechanism because it increases the militarization of the eu, since it explicitly provides for the use and mobilization of military forces and means, both in eu member states and in third countries. in this way, the 'civil protection mechanism' is another instrument of eu military intervention, under the pretext of 'human-made disasters' and 'the fight against terrorism'. it is part of the revision of the eu's common security and defence policy, which increases its aggressive character and strengthens its imperialist policy and interventions throughout the world. the eu is seeking to use its so-called 'non-military' missions as 'rapid intervention forces', which it will immediately convert into military missions, depending on the needs of its imperialist interventions. the eu is strengthening its military structures, reforming existing ones and creating new ones in order to make it more effective in attacking peoples, both within itself and in other countries, in the context of its inter-imperialist rivalries with other imperialist powers, for control of the wealth-producing resources and the savage exploitation of the peoples.
in writing. the effects of climate change and the increased frequency of severe natural and man-made disasters in recent years make it extremely important and necessary to have a designed european framework for civil protection. i supported this report because it strengthens the institutional framework for cooperation on civil protection, which remains primarily a national responsibility. the european civil protection mechanism emphasises the design of training programmes and the exchange of experience and good practice, while enhancing the role of volunteers and the transparency of funding. at the same time, it highlights the role of local and regional authorities and emphasises prevention, preparedness and risk assessment, particularly in terms of their financial support. in this case, budgetary synergies between the structural funds, the solidarity fund and any related financial mechanism shall be possible, facilitating better implementation of the civil protection mechanism.
in writing. civil protection in the union is currently governed by two legal acts: one on the community civil protection mechanism and one on the relevant financial instrument covering the period 2013-2020. the establishment of the new multiannual financial framework and the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is a good time to review the existing legal framework. the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters have increased.
in writing. the report on mortgage loans does introduce some measures to better regulate the mortgage market, but it does not touch on the essence of the problem. at the heart of the problem was the over-hyped mortgage lending in the eu, which failed to replace the welfare state, and the direct linking of housing loans to 'innovative financial products', with the sole aim of making banks profitable. the simple regulation of the market in advance is one part. today the housing problem has another very important dimension: we are also called upon to respond to the subsequent problem of the inability to service loans. european households are suffocating in debt. 70% of their debts are concentrated in mortgage loans and the number of non-performing loans is expected to increase in the coming period in many countries. in greece already more than 20% of housing loans cannot be serviced. european citizens are already suffering from the devastating effects of the crisis and austerity policies; the seizure and housing of the banks will be the final blow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures.
in writing. volunteering is a prerequisite for encouraging citizens to participate in society. it is the driver of social capital and growth in europe, as well as economic and social cohesion, contributing to the europe 2020 development strategy. the report, which i voted in favour of, sets out the guidelines for the creation of a coordinated policy on volunteering, which is currently fragmented into various services. it promotes values such as solidarity and non-discrimination, and fosters the development of participatory democracy and the promotion of human rights within and outside the eu. although in many member states volunteering is not legally enshrined, the work of the european year of volunteering 2011 has highlighted issues such as strengthening the community framework for the transparency of professional qualifications and competences, the need to establish immediately a pan-european framework for the recognition of non-formal education and a wider mobility network recognising volunteering and social work, the integration of skills acquired through volunteering into the ects system, the creation of a fund for the development of the relevant european centres, with the aim of creating infrastructure, but also supporting the insurance coverage of volunteers.
in writing. i voted for it. volunteering is a key pillar of our democratic and pluralist societies and an expression of commitment, support and active participation in social life. in order to celebrate and promote the commitment of volunteers and organisations working with volunteers and to address the challenges facing the voluntary sector, such as the reduction of the volunteering base or the shift from long-term commitments to specific short-term projects, the initiative to establish a european year of volunteering is welcome.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. - the madam president, we in the committee on employment and social affairs have considered the european neighbourhood policy and we have had the pleasure and honour of being able to deliver an opinion. the money, as the honourable member said, is small, but it is very important for us that even this small amount of money should be spent in such a way as to promote proper and decent relations between workers and employers. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. it is of particular importance to us that the conditions and requirements for the safety and health of workers are taken into account. it is particularly important for us to be able to support small and mediumsized enterprises. it is of particular importance to us that child labour is not promoted. the proper functioning of the european neighbourhood policy is an added value not only for our neighbouring countries but for the european union itself.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president, in my committee's opinion, the partnership instrument is aimed in particular at partnership and cooperation between the european union and countries which are abandoning development aid and are becoming partners of economic interest to the european union, such as china, russia and latin america. through this regulation, the european union should contribute to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular the objectives relating to security of energy supply and improved market access for european businesses. these issues are vital to the recovery of the european union's economy. i believe that special attention should be paid to supporting small and mediumsized enterprises affected by the economic crisis, to the internationalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union, because they play a very important role in our economy.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr. president, i think we cannot start a conversation like this today without remembering nelson mandela and what he said, that to deny someone human rights is to question human nature. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr kukan, on his report and on the excellent cooperation we have had throughout the drafting of the text. this year's report accurately reflects the reality of human rights issues in the world and the major problems arising from their protection. the rapporteur has managed to maintain a balance between the short original form of the report and the many specific references to countries or individual cases introduced with the amendments. when she took office, lady ashton spoke of the silver thread that should run through all the european union's policies towards third countries, referring to respect for human rights. but despite the declarations and despite their adoption as a regulatory factor in the union's relations and actions, europe unfortunately continues to have a policy of two measures and two stations on this issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these two vulnerable groups continue to be targeted around the world and their protection is of the utmost importance. but in order to continue to deal with these issues, we must take care of the people who are struggling every day in all countries. we therefore reiterate the need to protect human rights defenders who are under attack every day and whose lives are at risk in every corner of the globe. another issue we have highlighted in our amendments is internet censorship and the interaction of new technologies with human rights and civil society, on which digital freedom depends to a large extent. i would like to emphasize the important role played by the special representative for human rights, mr stavros lambrinidis, and i would like to call on him to continue with the same commitment and determination to represent the union in the world. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the union - and i am referring to all the institutions of the european union, whether it be the parliament or the council or your institution - must be more consistent in its attitude towards human rights if it is to be the agent of positive change in this field. your role is central to this.
mr president, i believe that the concept of human rights is not static, it is dynamic, and therefore the list is indicative. i therefore agree with both the rapporteur and the council representative in the list of human rights and in what has been done to protect them. i certainly agree that we have reached a satisfactory level of human rights protection in the european union, which has been eroding over the last four years because human rights are being violated because of the economic inefficiency of austerity measures and poverty is increasing. many governments in europe, in imposing austerity measures, have forgotten their obligations under the european human rights treaties, in particular the social and economic rights of the most vulnerable groups and the need to ensure the right to equal treatment and, above all, the right to work. youth unemployment has reached tragic levels, and twenty million people in the eurozone are out of work. in the mediterranean, people are being transported like animals and drowned, we have persecutions of christians, we must look at the man and take more serious measures, and i look forward to mr lambrinidis' help and assistance.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 11 december 2013, at 12.30.
the next item is the recommendation from the committee on employment and social affairs, drawn up by mrs cristina zuber, on a proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2011 international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers (convention no 189). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the measures in question.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 11 december 2013, at 12.20.
the next item is the report by mr george sabin cutaş, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation (com (2013) 0348 - c7-0200/2013 - 2013/0188 (cns)) (a7-0376/2013)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 11 december 2013, at 12.30.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr ramon tremosa i balcells, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on eu competition policy [2013/2075 (ini) ] (a7-0357/2013)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 11 december 2013, at 12.20.
mr president, we are talking about the next european council at a time when the people of europe are suffering from the european union's austerity policies, at a time when european democratic and social achievements are being destroyed in the name of competitiveness and profit. mr president, at the next summit the leaders will discuss the economic situation of the union, the economic situation of emu. we shall hear again 'we got a taste' of the banking union, of the european semester, of financial governance. but we will not hear, because we will be ignored once again, about the disastrous effects of these policies. we will not hear, for example, about the one and a half million unemployed in greece, we will not hear that thousands of households in greece today have no electricity, we will not hear that in greece - a country which is under the close supervision of all the institutions of the european union - the poor are getting poorer and the rich richer, while the blackmailing of greek housewives for their auctions and deposits will continue. mr president, such a european union, such a council, such leaders are out of step with developments, they do not respond to the interests of the european citizens. we on the left will fight for radical changes and upheavals so that we can speak of a europe of work, solidarity and democracy.
mr president, the economic situation in europe is stabilizing somewhat, and i agree with that, but we are not seeing growth. the european industries are closing one after another and investments are not being made in europe. the question is: is there any targeted action in the commission and the council to deal with the problem? we talked about the ukraine. the citizens there are looking for the european union. in europe, euroscepticism is on the rise. does it bother us? we are talking today about a common defence policy in europe and employment policies. at the same time the troika in greece insists on the closure of the war industries and the liberalisation of first home auctions, which has no immediate substantial economic effect; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. question: what is the name of the are you going to intervene in the troika so that they will withdraw these strange demands on greece?
mr president, it has been ten years since the european security strategy was adopted in 2003 and five years since the debate on its implementation. the european council in december had therefore raised a lot of ambition in the debate on defence. we have sent a strong message to the previous plenary session, by a large majority in the european parliament, that we must also make progress in the field of defence and security, that the common defence and security policy is an integral part of the process of european integration, that if we do not make progress, the union will not be able to play its role as an international actor and provider of security and will remain a single large market. we stressed that the economic crisis had led to necessary cuts in the defence budget of the member states, forcing us to do more with less, and that the solution was coordination, cooperation and confidence-building between partners. we have said that the common defence and security policy must be visible, that it cannot be discussed at the level of the elite but that it needs the participation and support of the citizens. we have proposed concrete measures: the application of the provisions of the treaty of lisbon on permanent structured cooperation, the start-up fund or article 44 to mandate a group of member states to undertake specific tasks. we have asked for the institution of a council of defence ministers, regular discussions at european council level, a road map for the next steps. unfortunately, from what we've seen so far, none of that is going to happen. beyond the adoption of the five pilot programmes, beyond the promise of a reassessment of the situation in june 2015, nothing concrete. general references and paraphrases of well-known slogans on the importance of defence. the lack of political will, the lack of courage, the national egos seem to be prevailing once again and are leading the european council to the lowest possible denominator. it's a shame! the solution is more europe, not less europe, but the member states are cowardly postponing necessary decisions, big decisions, for the future. i repeat, this is a shame!
mr president, it is a fact that the agenda of this council is of great interest. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. ten years after the first moves, the agenda now includes: first, the element of assessing what the success and impact of the common defence and security policy so far really is, secondly, how defence capabilities are being developed and, thirdly, what is to be done with defence industries. as regards evaluation, there is already a very interesting document from the high representative and a number of reports from the european parliament. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals. even if we are in a period of budgetary crisis, we can achieve better results with less money if we cooperate properly, if the eu battle groups work properly, if the athens programme works properly, if we really strengthen european industry in the defence industry, not only large companies but also small companies in different countries that can contribute to the production of weapons systems. the question whether in a time of crisis, with so much unemployment, we want to deal with defence policy is: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a major political issue and on the other hand we can very well meet european requirements through budgetary measures, give the european citizen more security and more confidence, mr president, in what europe is and what it feels it is.
mr president, i will give you a few examples of what we are talking about: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary consolidation is not jeopardized. in greece we have over 28% unemployment, and even 60-64% unemployment among young people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what has the austerity policy produced? it destroyed the productive base and social cohesion, but it did not reduce the debt. the recent oecd report says that what we achieved with the haircut and other measures to reduce debt was offset by increasing debt by an equal amount; that is, the debt was reduced by 38.5% with the haircut and because of the recession it increased again by 38.5%, that is, we achieved nothing...
madam president, we would like, on behalf of the socialists and democrats group, to withdraw a part of our amendment, so it reads as follows: ‘condemns unequivocally the military use of drones and the practice of targeted killings as a major violation of human rights, and reiterates the need for such activities to cease; calls for the eu to develop a common eu position on armed drones;’.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because counterfeiting of the euro is certainly a serious criminal offence and its link with organised crime should be taken into account when assessing the economic and social impact of counterfeiting on the lives of citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: however, the euro has not been widely counterfeited. this is largely due to its design and to structures at national and eu level that control and combat counterfeiting for bicycles. the pericles programme has so far played an important role in this process. however, some areas are not clearly defined and, for this reason, the aim of this report is, by completing the proposal, to orient the programme towards making the most of the resources allocated to its implementation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, given that this measure is aimed at continuing to stimulate economic activity and stabilise employment in this outermost region, and that the extension is proposed for a limited period of time.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it stresses that, given the constraints on national and eu budgets resulting from economic difficulties and due to growing political concern over demonstrating more effective development spending, improved donor coordination is imperative and the eu should play a key role in its promotion, and that the coordination should cover all major aspects of all development projects, including their planning, monitoring and evaluation.
in writing. the kke voted against the reports on the financial instruments of the eu's foreign policy for the period 2014-2020, because they constitute means of enforcing the imperialist policy of eu interventions and wars against third countries and their peoples. billions from the looting of people's incomes and secret funds are directed to financing overt and covert interventions, the buying of consciences and the blackmailing of the eu in every country in the world. the reports, which are supposedly devoted to civil liberties, say nothing about basic rights at work, democracy in the workplace, free education, health, welfare, sport. eu financial instruments support the eu's long arm, the various ngos, 'citizens' movements', church organisations, print, electronic and online media, to promote and promote the values of the multinationals, capitalist rot, to become propagandists of the eu and its anti-communism, at a time when there are growing rejectionist tendencies of the eu and abroad. they provide funds for secret missions to finance and civilize parties, "syndicalists", "activists" and others in the service of imperialism, to undermine, create "movements" - such as the so-called "color revolutions" - to shield the dominance of the monopolies and penetrate the markets.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund, with a budget of €150 million per year, helps young people who have lost their jobs because their company has closed or relocated, to find work and to acquire new skills. the report, which i voted in favour of, states that funding will be provided for measures to help young people find employment, vocational guidance and targeted training, as well as for the provision of counselling services and the promotion of entrepreneurship. it is important that greece finally starts to make use of the possibilities offered by the fund to potential beneficiaries, which will include, under the new regulation, young people not in employment, education or training who live in areas with a particularly high rate of youth unemployment, such as our country, which has the sadly lowest youth unemployment rate in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it is very important that the eu gets back on track with a programme for dynamic job creation, otherwise we will have a recovery but no jobs. the cor can contribute to these objectives by supporting displaced workers in their job search, upskilling/qualification or self-employment in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the evaluation showed that the measures co-financed by the egf appear to contribute to preventing the worsening of the unemployment situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because today, 20 years after the creation of the single market, many consumers are still greatly affected by anti-competitive practices in many sectors of the economy. in some cases, these practices originate in the private sector, as in the case of cartels, but it is well known that the public sector also tends to oppose opening up to competition in many important economic sectors, such as railways, airports, telecommunications or electricity. moreover, too often, the public sector does not have fully independent regulatory authorities in place to ensure that markets continue to operate properly, fairly and without discrimination. the same applies to the competition authorities. in addition, we should ensure that banks are fully accountable for the way they use public money. i also think it is essential to ensure that the taxpayer's bill is kept as low as possible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, as it focuses on the most vulnerable, poor and marginalised populations with high exposure to risks, while on a broader scale it targets vulnerable and crisis-prone countries. the majority of damage from disasters and crises is caused mainly in the poorest and most vulnerable countries. in addition, many crisis-prone countries have received negligible levels of funding for resilience development and ics compared to the corresponding funding for emergency response.
in writing. the problems faced by women with disabilities - mass unemployment, cuts in wages, pensions, welfare and education - are the result of the eu's general anti-people policy and the governments of the parties of capital and the euro-path in its member states. the demagogic statements in the resolution 'women with disabilities' about 'equal opportunities' and the right to 'unimpeded access' are part of an attempt to cover up the causes and to cultivate self-deception. it seeks to control the most extreme phenomena of the impoverishment of the working-class layers, to cover up the barbarity of the system and to control social explosions. unemployment, poverty, misery, sexual violence against disabled women or the forced sterilization of disabled women are phenomena that are a sign of the rottenness of capitalism. the kke is fighting for the adoption of disability prevention policy measures, high quality public and free special education, permanent and stable employment for all able-bodied disabled women, free full and high quality medical care, public and free social support services for disabled women.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report focusing on the situation of women and girls with disabilities in the european union. the report proposes important measures at both national and european level to improve the situation of women with disabilities and to eliminate discrimination and stereotypes. it is imperative that women with disabilities be protected from the multiple discriminations to which they are subjected, which often lead to abuse and exploitation, both outside and within their families.
mr president, the report confirms the position of the communist party of greece on the character of the european union as a transnational association of capital whose sole purpose is to safeguard the economic and political domination of the monopolies. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and its role in the process of european integration has been a key factor in the process of european integration. the only thing the institutions of the european union and the governments of capital in the member states agree on is the relentless attack on the lives and rights of workers in all the member states. the demand for the troika to be supposedly democratically accountable to the european parliament is therefore a mockery. as if the troika were not the european union itself. as if the troika were not jointly deciding with the bourgeois governments in the member states the barbarous anti-people measures to crush the working class and to ensure the profitability of the monopolies. who else is the troika answerable to? the european parliament has not only voted for all the anti-people measures that are being implemented, but is in the forefront of imposing the whole of this policy on all the member states. this union can only get worse, which is why the solution lies in disengagement from the european union and the building of workers' power in all the member states.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. i would like to thank mrs meissner for her excellent cooperation and congratulate her on the excellent report. the directive on maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management is a key instrument for the implementation of blue development. the new maritime sectors that have emerged in recent years are poised to contribute to much-needed economic growth, to contribute over one and a half million jobs, and even new ones; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european marine research area, the development of marine renewable energy, biotechnology, and advanced forms of tourism. it should be stressed that the directive will simplify and facilitate investment, especially in cross-border maritime areas. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the disorderly and simultaneous development of many activities at sea and on the coasts threatens the fragile marine environment, an environment which, at least in the mediterranean, is already under enormous man-made pressures. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report as it stands calls on neighbouring countries to aim at a common vision for the allocation of marine uses in our common sea for reasons of economic efficiency and environmental protection. finally, our proposal ensures that coastal and marine areas are open to the public for recreational and other activities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
mr president, an integrated maritime policy and maritime spatial planning can and must be tools for growth, job creation and the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the union, especially in these difficult times of crisis, needs to focus on developing maritime activities, which employ five million people and generate an eu added value of some eur 500 billion. it is very important to coordinate the different actions of the maritime policy at political level in order to optimise the benefits for the member states and european citizens. in this context i welcome the report by mrs meissner on maritime spatial planning and consider it a very important initiative. the existence of a european maritime spatial planning requires the union to move towards the control, stability and security of the coastal and territorial waters, exclusive economic zones, continental shelves, maritime infrastructure and marine resources of the member states of the union.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission considers that the implementation of maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management across the eu’s sea basins is key to facilitating the sustainable growth of the european maritime economy. the european parliament has been very supportive of the commission’s proposal and approach and has made constructive contributions. let me just highlight some aspects of the commission’s position on this subsidiarity issue that have been raised during today’s debate. in the commission’s view, eu action in this area is justified given that, to a large extent, maritime and coastal activities and related policies have cross-border, regional, and often eu-wide impacts. risks related to natural hazards and climate change go beyond national borders. as tools, maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management, when established in a harmonised procedural framework, could significantly contribute to coherent approaches across sea basins. i would also say that the provisions of the proposed directive do not affect town or county planning for integrated coastal management provisions but only impose obligations in relation to the appropriate coordination of relevant policies affecting the coastal area. they do not interfere with member states’ prerogative as regards policy choices related to town and county matters. let me conclude by reiterating the commission’s thanks for the work done on these proposals by the rapporteur, ms meissner, and the shadow rapporteurs, mr pirillo and ms thomas. the commission looks forward to the launch of trialogue negotiations on this file and we are ready to facilitate rapid agreement.
in writing. both maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management are equally important tools if we want to combine maritime and land-based planning and achieve sustainable and coherent use of seas and coasts. although some member states have an exemplary approach, differences between member states are large and a european framework directive is necessary to ensure that marine activities are supported by appropriate coastal infrastructure, that the fragile coastal environment is protected and that citizens and interest groups are representatively and effectively involved in the decision-making process. there is an attempt to weaken significantly the provisions of the directive concerning integrated coastal zone management due to unfounded concerns about unforeseen consequences for member states' land-use planning processes. however, iczm supports the principle of subsidiarity and without the inclusion of the cwfd in this directive the provisions on maritime spatial planning would be much weaker. i therefore call on you to vote against amendment no 21 to article 1 or to support the separate vote to delete the phrase 'on a case-by-case basis' which makes the gats non-binding.
mr president, in this year’s report we have worked on the non-standard monetary operations carried out by the bank, the ltros and the omt, which played a very critical role in averting the contagion of the crisis. however this is not enough to get us out of the woods. at the moment, when the european economy is still desperately struggling for growth, and unemployment is reaching unacceptable levels, the ecb could and should do more. let me give you two examples: in our debates we have consistently raised the issue of the credit crutch in the real economy, along the line that the cheap liquidity you are providing for banks has never reached the real economy but was instead used by banks for profits and capital formation. as you know, the problem is extremely acute in crisis countries like greece where rates have increased, not decreased, and where healthy smes are suffering because of lack of liquidity and large corporations often have to leave the country in order to get access to cheap credit. mr draghi said last week that if he were to do an operation similar to the ltro he would want it to be used for the real economy and this is absolutely the right approach. but i am wondering, mr draghi, what you are waiting for before using this tool and making sure that your monetary policy is transmitted effectively across all the euro area, to help struggling but healthy smes survive and to help them preserve existing jobs and create new ones. finally, a last point about what the ecb could do. one of the conclusions of the independent annual growth survey is that an aggressive monetary policy to reduce sovereign spreads would, together with institutional advances, have an accumulated effect of 3% of gdp in ireland and 8% of gdp in spain and greece, not only helping in the recovery from the crisis but also contributing considerably to the sustainability of public debt. so why does this option remain excluded?
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the resolution which we hope will be adopted today by the european parliament's plenary by a large majority, setting measurable and concrete targets to combat tax evasion and avoidance, is a strong message from the european parliament to the european commission, the council and the governments. the commission's proposal is that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement, and that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement. the citizens of the union, the taxpayers, have borne a huge burden during this crisis, largely because we have failed to produce the results we need in the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance. one trillion euros a year of lost revenue in the european union from tax evasion and tax avoidance. and although i fully acknowledge the effort made by commissioner šemeta, what i also understood from your speech is that there is a ping-pong of responsibility being played between the commission and governments on the backs of european citizens, european taxpayers, who in turn of course turn their backs on europe. parliament wants to put an end to this unacceptable situation. we must give credibility to the commitments to tax justice and to reduce the tax gap, and to do this we must show that we give the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance the same special weight, commissioner, as we give to fiscal stability. let us not just look at the deficit and debt reduction indicators! let us establish country-by-country indicators! the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must establish indices for each country and for europe as a whole to measure tax evasion! then, set concrete targets to reduce the fiscal gap at european and national level and decide to follow them up in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and the european semester! the member states must do more - you are right, commissioner - but the issue of tax evasion and tax avoidance cannot be tackled effectively at national level alone. it takes a collective effort and commitment from all of us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with you on the seriousness and the scale of the problem of tax evasion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my view, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of tax evasion and avoidance is not simply a disease in the tax system of the european union. it is a condition for the existence and perpetuation of this anti-people, neoliberal model, based on the redistribution of wealth and the profitability of big business. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of companies and the taxation of individuals. on the contrary, we go to the tenant, the pensioner, and we tax them, we put a fine on them and we criminalise, in greece at least, even the right to housing, so that we can save on the necessary taxes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, tackling tax evasion and tax fraud is a priority that has not rightly emerged as a major european policy, because tax evasion undermines europe's competitiveness, pushes member states to higher tax rates, discourages investment and is one of the most heinous forms of social injustice. the resolution in question highlights these points, but the increase in tax revenue that it is talking about must not mean an increase in the size of the state. the revenue from tax evasion should be used to drastically reduce tax rates, especially in countries with high levels of unemployment, which need strong incentives for investment and growth. we need less taxation and smaller states in these member states, something which the various troika do not seem to have sufficiently understood. it is positive that the resolution and the commission speak of automatic exchange of information, but this should above all apply within countries by linking cash registers to finance ministries, a measure that resolutely combats vat theft and which, for some mysterious reason, in my own country, greece, the troika does not promote, after passively monitoring the relevant legislation since 2011, the regulation to be postponed indefinitely. the commission often follows different criteria in its broader european policy and in the issues it promotes as a troika. in greece at least ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as rapporteur for the green group on eco-innovation, i have supported the quality report of a colleague and we have contributed some of our own proposals. green innovation is an opportunity to change our economy and create jobs while protecting the environment and strengthening social cohesion. i think that would be a very smart policy in this period of deep crisis, where we need not cuts in wages and the welfare state but strengthening of those economic activities which are much more sustainable. eco-innovation is combined and linked with technological innovation, involving local communities, and that is why it is very important. we agree that until now - and this is right - there has been a strengthening of the interventions with demonstration programmes, but we believe that it should be gradually extended to all economic activities and all funds, that is to say, we should go further. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, as a co-signatory of the resolution on tax avoidance and tax evasion and on behalf of the greek delegation, which has a flight to catch, i would like to kindly ask you, if the chamber agrees, to modify the order of votes and vote for this resolution just after item 11 of our agenda on generalised tariff preferences. i know this is an extraordinary request but the circumstances are extraordinary.
mr president, i think mrs podimata is right. for the same reasons as those given by the commission, i too would ask that the vote on taxes be taken before the resolutions.
i would like to propose, mr president, that a sentence be added to the end of amendment no 36, on which the rapporteur agrees. it's more of an explanation. the text of the amendment is thus: 'marine spatial plans and integrated coastal zone management strategies shall apply an ecosystem-based approach' and the addition is: 'taking economic, social and environmental criteria into account as equals'.
in writing. - the i voted in favour of this report as the arguments put forward by the general court are convincing and the need for the appointment of additional judges is demonstrated. it is extremely important that the general court be able to rule on cases within a reasonable time. the biggest problem, however, is the appointment of judges. the problem was delayed even in the first attempt to solve it. this report makes a specific proposal which does not take account of the nationality of the additional judges. the interests of the member states in the allocation of seats must not undermine the rule of law in the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. in times of a general economic crisis, a period which particularly threatens our sense of belonging to europe, it is important to create incentives for long-term and manageable cultural initiatives. in this context, a year-long programme of cultural activities should be established through the cooperation of actors from the various sectors involved: from the artistic world, as well as from leaders and protagonists of social volunteering, and those involved in scientific research and environmental protection. for these reasons, the proposal aims to give greater weight to the theme of 'common roots' of europe, both in an abstract or idealised way and in a tangible approach through the protection of cultural heritage sites that embody the heart of european cultural consciousness.
in writing. the joint resolution of the parties of capital and the euro-arabist party on the non-ratification of the eu-ukraine free trade agreement at the recent eastern partnership summit, which was voted for by the european parliament, constitutes a provocative intervention for the penetration of the eu monopolies in ukraine. the political representatives of eu capital are taking an active part in the acute rivalries raging in the region, mainly with russia but also with the other imperialist centres. the conflict has nothing to do with the interests of the people of ukraine and the other peoples of the region. it is a competition between bandits fighting for the spoils: the resources, especially energy resources, the transport routes, the exploitation of the peoples of the wider region. the people must not choose an imperialist. not to enlist under the foreign flag of the bourgeoisie, but to fight under their own flag, to strengthen the anti-capitalist anti-monopoly struggle to overthrow the power of capital, to open the way for workers' popular power, a basic condition for meeting the modern needs of the working people.
in writing. the kke voted against the joint resolution of the "grand alliance" of the people's party, social democrats and liberals on the preparation of the eu summit on 19-20 december 2013, because it promotes and strengthens the eu's aggression against peoples both within itself and in third countries. it called on the summit to speed up the completion of the banking union, to deepen capitalist restructuring in all member states, and to intensify the exploitation of workers to safeguard the profits of business groups. calls for the military arm of the imperialist european union, the common security and defence policy (csdp), to be strengthened so that it can intervene by all means throughout the world, in cooperation with nato and independently; the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. the doctrine it promotes is: 'the eu must intervene everywhere'. it promotes the concentration of the military industry in the hands of large monopoly enterprises, the undermining and dismantling of national defence industries that do not meet the needs of the eu's imperialist strategic plans. the eu is the enemy of the people. the fight to weaken and finally dismantle it is the only option that serves the interests of the people.
