as we have heard, this is an important own-initiative report and an important subject. it affects not just many, but many, many workers. about 4 million people have been affected in the last 10 years, with around 14 000 to 15 000 company transformations. but it's also important to note that these transformations are very different. from outsourcing to relocation, from internal restructuring to relocation, from reorganisation of forms of activity, there is a lot of stuff, and there are a lot of rules. we've heard a lot of people talk about it, but that doesn't necessarily mean that we need to standardize the rules. two conflicting demands are presented. from the point of view of the workers, there is clearly a need for greater stability, for better foresight and for more planning. a legitimate claim, and where possible, it should be created, and the parties involved should cooperate in this. on the other hand, we're in the middle of a crisis. to be competitive, businesses must adapt quickly to changing conditions, transform, reorganise if you will. to do this, they need more flexibility. i think that it would be very difficult to have regulation at european level to deal with this, and it has no legal basis at the moment, because the treaty assigns the regulation of labour law, labour law, to the competence of the nations. it is an old debate whether a single european labour law system would be a good thing in a single market. i think it's probably true, but there's no way to do that right now. i therefore agree with what the commission has proposed: to take account of good practice, to help, to bring the social partners together and to learn from each other, but i think that a single directive is too much. i'm glad we were able to compromise with the reporter. some kind of act is acceptable, no directive is needed.
it is very important to pay special attention to disabled employees during restructuring. and the training that they're getting in the transition should be accessible, accessible, otherwise they're going to be among the first to be laid off because of the lack of it. few people know that for older and disabled workers, the cost of training them in small and medium-sized enterprises is a worthwhile investment. in countries where the job crisis is not so severe, it might be worth paying attention to this, because who are the first to be fired? disabled workers. the requirement to prevent redundancies due to restructuring is acceptable as a transitional solution, but cannot be a general prescription. care must be taken that redundancies do not lead to more and more redundancies because the financial situation of enterprises is deteriorating. so what do we do? local labour market services need to be strengthened and i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that, in the midst of low levels of training, the european union has no strategy for training. i ask that the european commission develops a strategy for the low-skilled as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. both the european people's party and the group of the european people's party immediately welcomed this proposal. we consider it a useful, important and forward-looking proposal. we're aware of the facts. the number of unemployed people starting their careers and young people in the european union has increased by around 23%. more than 5 million young people are out of work. in some countries, the youth unemployment rate has risen to 25%, and in some countries to 40-45%. this is clearly an unacceptable, intolerable condition. that needs to change. we welcome the commission's activity in this area. but we also have to see that if you ask the question, well, who pays the reaper, as they say, then for the time being, the uncertainty is what we experience. the commission is taking a number of initiatives and we see that it is basically spending the same money over and over again, so the real fear is that the member states may be left to their own devices and at the same time the situation of individual countries, the composition of young people, may differ greatly. it is therefore doubtful that any uniform framework can be proposed for them here. i would like to stress that it is not simply the states, or even the union, that can create jobs. this requires a functioning economy, and in order to boost a functioning economy, the resources of cohesion policy must be saved and even increased.
in writing. – i would like to thank commissioner andor for having introduced a proposal for a european youth guarantee scheme within the employment package. we are all aware of the disastrous situation of youth employment in europe and of its social and economic cost. this cost is way higher than the funds needed for such a european guarantee. let me in particular emphasise the precarious situation that young women face on the labour market. through its campaign ‘your future is my future’, the party of european socialists along with the s-d group put strong pressure on the commission and the member states to make sure that this youth guarantee would be proposed because there is no viable future for the european union if we are not capable to offer work and prospects to our youth. i would like to congratulate the irish presidency for having put this issue on the top of their agenda and i fully support the resolution drafted by the committee on employment and social affairs. this youth guarantee has proved to be efficient in the member states which have put it in place and we now need proper funding and a strong political will to make it a reality.
mr. president, this is officer hahn. i welcome the fact that the report by derek vaughan clearly draws attention to the main objective of cohesion policy, which is to catch up with declining regions. it is unacceptable to take money from disadvantaged regions or cohesion regions. the resources allocated to the most disadvantaged regions under cohesion policy should be maintained from 2014. 6 out of 7 regions in hungary are disadvantaged. it is therefore imperative that the aid received by hungary under the cohesion policy be reduced by 30% compared to the current 7-year period. i ask commissioner hahn and the house to find a suitable community solution to this problem. it is also important to ensure that excessive rigidity in the rules for the use of resources does not make it impossible to draw cohesion funds.
the urban rehabilitation report is an important element of cohesion policy. in point 4 of the report, it calls for the mobilisation of cultural and economic resources to create adequate opportunities for the social integration and inclusion of marginalised and vulnerable groups. point 7 of the report emphasises the need for new forms of urban rehabilitation that focus on the need for culture and sport as a leisure activity for the population, in the context of the transformation of community public spaces and parks. sport has been shown to be very effective in helping social integration, not to mention providing our children with activities that protect them from the influence of alcohol and drugs and educate them in a healthy way of life. it is therefore necessary to bring back the grundtvigs, which are able to meet the needs of today with a high standard, providing pedagogical supervision in both voluntary and supported forms. in hungary, the malta charity service has launched such a program, which has been very successful. i ask you to support this at the european level.
in writing. cohesion policy is a valuable contributor to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. urban areas, which account for 80% of eu gdp, are particularly important for the implementation of the union's new growth strategy. the development of urban areas requires complex development programmes that serve sustainable economic development and at the same time result in the creation of 'livable' cities. an integrated approach is needed, which can be provided by flexible community legislation, with sufficient scope for member states' freedom of design. the increased flexibility will make eu funds more effective and help to tailor responses to the needs of the regions. the need for flexibility should therefore be taken into account when determining the amounts of aid to be paid to the european social fund for the three categories of regions. inflexible minimum thresholds that do not reflect the specificities of the regions are an obstacle to the efficient use of resources. the energy-related objectives of the europe 2020 strategy cannot be achieved without support from the structural and cohesion funds. in the field of energy policy, we must keep in mind the objectives of security of supply and sustainable development. finally, with regard to the european solidarity fund, i would like to draw attention to the need to provide greater flexibility in setting the eligibility threshold and to allow the fund to provide support in specific situations even if the eligibility threshold is not reached.
in writing. energy networks play an important role in developing regional competitiveness and creating jobs. despite the efforts made so far, many of the lagging regions still lack adequate infrastructure connections, which imposes a significant competitive disadvantage on the citizens living there. the danube region also has several areas with high energy prices, vulnerable consumers and often security of supply problems. in january 2009, the gas crisis showed us firsthand that regional energy challenges cannot be tackled by a central planning office or by individual national solutions. common problems should be addressed in a coordinated way, with an alternative solution at regional level. the danube strategy adopted under the hungarian presidency provides a suitable framework for this joint work. within the framework of the strategy, forward-looking regional initiatives have been launched to increase the security of supply in the danube region and to enable central european gas prices to fall to western european levels. more regional initiatives like the danube strategy are needed to ensure that the eu's acquis is not just abstract legislation for eu citizens, but tangible results.
the safer internet programme was launched by the european commission in 1999. it identified among the main objectives of the programme the dissemination of methods to enhance the safety of users, in particular minors and children, and to filter out harmful or illegal content. this was a very wise initiative almost a decade and a half ago, as the challenges in this area have grown exponentially since then. in hungary, in april 2009, a consortium called the safer internet centre of hungary was established on the initiative of the international child rescue service and joined this programme. the launch of the programme was a great success, with 28000 children having already taken part in the 'surf safe' awareness campaign in april 2009. in hungary, 58% of children aged 9-16 use the programme regularly, daily, and 35% at least once or twice a week. so our children are exposed to a lot of dangers when they use the internet, and we need to protect them from them. the european commission, as far as i know, has no intention of continuing this programme for the next seven years, although i am convinced that this would be a fatal mistake, and i therefore ask the european commission to reconsider its position and support the programme.
my fellow members of parliament! cyprus took over the reins of the staff during a difficult period and was only able to meet part of the expectations. there has been little progress in crisis management and, regrettably, no agreement on the eu's seven-year budget has been reached. however, the cyprus presidency can achieve significant results in the area of the common energy policy. the completion of the infrastructure package is a real milestone towards the creation of a single energy market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's energy market is not affected by the energy crisis. several member states are still dependent on a single gas source, despite diversification efforts. the liquidity of the markets in central and eastern europe remains low and former state-owned energy companies often have significant market power. it is therefore crucial to build up investments that increase security of supply and competition. the infrastructure package will allow the permitting processes to be accelerated and the available financial resources to become write-offs. this could give a boost to investments that are currently on hold. so this is a clear success. the next step is for member states to transpose existing eu legislation into national law so that development can take place where it is really most needed.
dear colleagues, the honourable officer šefčovič. under the cyprus presidency, a proposal was made to establish a union monitoring system to monitor the rule of law and the functioning of the judicial systems, similar to the financial semester. the need for this was also raised by commission president barroso and justice commissioner vivian reding. this could be the most lasting outcome of the cyprus presidency, if the irish presidency now in place and the eu institutions - and the commission in particular - implement this proposal. the need for democratic control of the rule of law is also demonstrated by recent events in hungary. college and high school students have been protesting for weeks against the government's so-called student contracts, which would put fresh graduates on probation for 6 to 12 years. the commission is already looking into this, but i hope that its action will be effective.
ladies and gentlemen of the police! the implementation of the regulation, which ensures synergies between the structural funds and the framework programme, has not been smooth and has not been uniformly successful. although the eu 2020 strategy has endorsed this model, i agree with those who believe that without financial stability and stability in human resources, this framework programme cannot succeed. i also agree with those who say that the role of smes should be increased in this area, because they are important in terms of employment. but i did not hear in today's debate about another aspect that is at least as important: the question of women entrepreneurs and the question of women researchers. i am convinced that this new area can not only bring a new vision but also a new innovation to this area. i would like to ask the commissioner whether she intends to deal with this area separately, not just as an equal opportunity issue, and i know that the commissioner does not support quotas, but beyond the model of excellence, how can we put women researchers, women entrepreneurs, for example, in a position? i'll wait for your answer.
mr. president, this is a very short notice. thank you for your answer, ladies. and i would like to ask you to make sure that this information and the results of these analyses are made more public, so that more and more people, at the level of nation states and at the level of researchers, can get this information and get this level of progress.
in writing. − with 73% of the eu population living in cities, these inhabited areas accounting for almost 80% of the eu's gdp, 70% of energy consumption, and as centres of innovation, knowledge and culture, engines of economic development, cities play a key role in economic growth and the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. at the same time, it is important to bear in mind that cities are also the focus of problems such as environmental pollution, high unemployment, poverty, the main causes of climate change, etc., and therefore require complex developments that produce livable cities, sustainable economic development. i welcome the aspects of the commission's legislative proposals that would make the integrated and territorial nature of cohesion policy more prominent in the coming period. the integrated approach can be ensured by flexible community legislation, which sets only minimum requirements for design and implementation and allows sufficient scope for member states' freedom of design to adapt to national and regional specificities. flexibility is particularly important for the proposed new optional instrument, cllds (community-led local development).
in writing. − promoting the rehabilitation and regeneration of urban areas which is intended to create prosperity and opportunities is one of the eu's biggest challenges to be addressed by strengthening the link between the city and development and between urban centres and their surrounding areas. i agree with mr cozzolino that, in order to promote the social and economic development of cities, we need to rethink the methods of urban development and spatial planning and start comparing planning practices and instruments of intervention that can enrich environmental, territorial, commercial, transport and feasibility policies through a multi-use of land that integrates physical infrastructures with a system of non-physical relationships. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i believe that cohesion policy needs a real change, one that, through greater and better involvement of urban areas, is able not only to maximise results and the achievement of objectives, but also to develop a european spirit, to create consensus with the community institutions and to overcome the disruptive tendencies reinforced by the crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of my colleague derek vaughan's report on optimising the role of territorial development in cohesion policy, as i consider it particularly important as a hungarian representative that the main objective of cohesion policy remains to catch up with declining regions. i would highlight point 3 of the report, which stresses that the budget for cohesion policy after 2013 must be maintained at least at the current level in order to continue to support areas requiring economic and social renewal. hungary continues to reject the proposal to reduce its cohesion support for the 2014-2020 eu financial framework by up to 30% compared to the current level. in order to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy in the union in full, it is unacceptable to reduce the current level of aid.
in writing. − in the current economic climate, 'better spending' is more relevant in europe's regions, as all european citizens want to benefit equally from cohesion policy support. i welcome this parliament's own initiative report (ini), as community-led local development (clld) encourages local communities to develop integrated, bottom-up approaches to meet the local needs of the regions, develops community capacity, thereby helping multi-level governance, and this kind of territorial dimension gives regions the opportunity to use their own territorial assets in their work towards the objectives of cohesion policy. synergies between the funds should be fully exploited in order to achieve mutually complementary thematic objectives. this territorial concept of cohesion policy is an effective means of promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion, including the maintenance of employment, education and poverty reduction.
in writing. − in the current economic climate, it is clear that cohesion policy support is becoming increasingly important for europe's regions and that greater care must be taken to ensure that funds are used more efficiently, so that citizens can fully benefit from european funding. this own-initiative report aims to examine effective and efficient mechanisms for creating synergies between european support programmes within the commission's common strategic framework. i welcome this objective, as i myself believe that coordinated implementation of support programmes at local and regional level will improve the effectiveness of european aid. i therefore voted in favour of the report and hope that the instruments proposed by the european commission to create greater synergies between the funds will be complemented as soon as possible by mechanisms for implementation at regional and local level.
in writing. - i welcome this own-initiative report of the parliament for several reasons. on the one hand, because the regulation on the fund for the relief of the distress and of the losses of life caused by the central european floods, originally established in 2002, has not been amended in 10 years, and because the number of natural disasters of this type has increased in recent years, partly due to global warming, and the entry into force of the amended regulation coincides with the beginning of the next mff period. by september 2012, some 49 applications for assistance from the solidarity fund had been made by the member states concerned, but the often contradictory and sometimes incomplete regulation was also due to be amended for the reasons mentioned above.
in writing. − the provisions of the hungarian basic law stipulate that 'everyone has the right to have his affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the authorities'. however, it is not enough to ensure fundamental rights at member state level alone. although the extensive case law of the court of justice of the european union has recognised a number of general principles of administrative law on the basis of the constitutional traditions of the member states, the union has not yet developed a comprehensive, codified system of rules on administrative law covering all the union institutions and all the union's fields of activity. in my view, legislation on the european administrative procedure would enhance the legitimacy of the union and increase citizens' trust in the union's administration. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that 2013 is the european year of citizens. in this context, we must place particular emphasis on strengthening citizens' trust in the union. every citizen has the right to legal certainty, which is why we aim to make the eu's public administration efficient, democratic, open and accountable. in our resolution we therefore call on the commission to present as soon as possible a proposal for a regulation on european administrative procedure. legislation should be put in place to put the administrative procedure at the centre and provide appropriate guarantees for citizens and businesses in their direct contacts with the union administration. an administrative regulation should cover all eu institutions, bodies and offices.
in writing. - in africa, human development takes place in very different circumstances. although some north african countries have achieved impressive economic growth, the highly unequal distribution of income often prevents growth from having a positive impact on poverty. one of the key challenges in poverty reduction and social development is job creation, especially for women and ethnic minorities. the employment situation is closely linked to the otherwise gradual improvement in literacy rates. the well-being of the population also depends on the availability of hygienic and sanitary conditions. in this respect, the hiv/aids epidemic in particular is a heavy burden in many african countries. i agree with the rapporteur that more resources should be allocated to the intergovernmental authority on development and that effective political dialogue and consensus-building mechanisms should be established between all member states in order to promote good governance. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to develop a process of regional integration, it is necessary to strengthen africa's role in the world economy.
in writing. − i would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur for his thorough and comprehensive presentation of the eu strategy for the somali peninsula. the somali peninsula region represents a growing security threat to the world and to europe. the report welcomes the call for development and humanitarian aid to the region. but the situation is a bit like the "twenty-one trap": development cannot be achieved without effective security, and security can hardly be achieved without a significant improvement in living conditions. when humanitarian workers, doctors, teachers, experts are constantly threatened with death, they can hardly do their jobs effectively. the danger of the interconnection between organised crime and terrorism cannot be overemphasised from a law enforcement perspective. the openness of terrorism towards organised crime is well known and logical, as terrorist groups may be the main potential buyers of certain illegal products such as weapons or cbrn substances. experts believe that the opposite is likely: it is only a matter of time before somali pirates, who have been driven by a desire for profit, become susceptible to ideologies that link them to terrorist groups. the report welcomes the suggestion that member states, in cooperation with europol and interpol, investigate money laundering and identify the bank accounts, including those of european banks, to which the ransoms paid to pirates have been transferred. furthermore, identify the organised criminal networks that benefit from these crimes.
mr president, since the invasion of north mali at the end of march 2012 by the islamist group linked to aqim the situation has kept deteriorating. the whole country is not just in danger but regional stability as well. the restoration of sharia law by these islamist groups has led to multiple breaches of human rights and vulnerable groups such as women and children have suffered the most. moreover, the latest numbers from the united nations report that 230 000 people have been internally displaced while 150 000 others have fled to neighbouring countries. the utmost must be done to protect these refugees. the french intervention at the request of the malian government is a first step but needs to be strongly backed by the international community in dialogue and collaboration with the african union and the ecowas to make sure that the territorial integrity and sovereignty of mali can be fully restored. moreover, in order to restore the regional stability, the union should pursue and deepen the integrated strategy for security and development in sahel. immediate intervention is one thing, but we have to reflect on the long-term future of the whole region.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam minister, mr. officer, please. this is not a new topic, but one that has been brought up again and again. although the institutions seem to be continuously dealing with this issue, there has been no reassuring conclusion to the matter. the activities of credit rating agencies, as already mentioned by the rapporteur, have caused damage to the economy of the european union, and in particular to the economy of some member states, which is often measured in billions. on the other hand, i agree with the commissioner that their overvalued role has also led to a considerable degree of dependence. the rapporteur makes a number of innovative recommendations with which i fully agree, such as proposing a ban on uninitiated sovereign ratings, examining whether individual credit rating agencies should be allowed to rate a member state's creditworthiness at all, or the issue of shareholder interest, or the mandatory nature of allowing ratings. i therefore support the report to be voted on tomorrow and i propose that it be supported. however, in order to be able to fully understand and control the situation on european markets in the future, we must not only be observers but also active participants in this process. we are taking the first steps in that process with this report. the creation of internal ratings, for example, is a very commendable and good initiative, which could be the basis for a european-wide credit rating agency to be set up in the future, with a european union headquarters. the reason why this credit rating agency is important is so that we can not just have credit raters acting in the short term or in self-interest, but also be able to handle these processes and not make them look worse because of other interests, for example, money market events. in conclusion, i congratulate the rapporteur, this report is useful and forward-looking in every way, it is a good way forward, the process started should be continued and if necessary steps should be taken to set up a european-based credit rating agency.
stability bonds are a very important topic, although it is also a subject with many open questions. as a starting point, i would like to stress that it is essential for the responsible and, above all, safe introduction of these bonds that the previously established sixth and second package be adopted, implemented and complied with, at the same time as we work to reduce the debts of the member states of the european union. without them, these stability bonds cannot be properly introduced, cannot be sustained, can lead to further macroeconomic imbalances and can also contribute to the growth of public debt.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr pallone on his report, because he has made a very good assessment of the events of the last three years, both in terms of the crisis and the responses to the crisis. i agree with the way in which it is stated that member states are not in the same position and that sustainable and growth-friendly strategies should be put in place that are consistent with the country-specific recommendations and that also take account of the steps taken by the member states concerned to achieve financial consolidation. it is also clear from the context that fiscal consolidation is an essential but not a sufficient condition for economic recovery. a very important aspect of the report is that it specifically talks about reducing taxes on labour, which is why we see a good example of this, for example in hungary, where similar steps have been taken in my country, and the hungarian government has also recognised that solidarity has to be understood more broadly, and it is asking for cooperation from all stakeholders, not just from the population through restrictions, but through the companies, services and banks involved. congratulations again, and i'll support you.
madam president, officer, i have to go. i would like to join my colleague in thanking the rapporteur for his work and for the material he has put before us. stabilising public finances is essential for crisis management. i'm not disputing that myself. however, it is important to take into account that a uniform formula cannot be applied for all eu member states. that would be like prescribing the same medicine for patients with circulatory problems as for younger, older, overweight, or anorexic patients. the stabilisation programmes of recent years have shown significant differences in terms of performance. it is now clear that the imf's seemingly all-powerful recipe for crisis management based on severe austerity has not lived up to its expectations, with a sharp rise in unemployment, falling consumer spending and severe economic insecurity. it is worth paying more attention to the successes of the economic policies of those member countries that did not follow the imf's recipe but went their own way, as was the case with hungary, which is now being praised at the level of the european commission and the major credit rating agencies.
i myself believe that there is a clear need to modernise state aid control, firstly to improve the quality of commission supervision and secondly to limit the distortions of competition involved. the current complex financial, legal and procedural framework applies to both small and large cases, which makes the procedure itself extremely complex. i agree with the econ committee's position that democratic control by parliament is very important and is warranted. i believe that the lack of codecision in this area must be reviewed not only for the purpose of coordination and coordination in other aspects of economic regulation, but also because it is not enough for the commission to carry out ex post controls for administrative purposes only, but because it is a fundamentally political matter, and if we are talking about pro-growth policies and about increasing the efficiency of public spending, this cannot be avoided, it cannot be avoided, just as cooperation with parliament and codecision cannot be avoided.
madam president, fellow members of the house of representatives, modernising the state aid rules is an important issue. this is the use of aid for investment and development which has a significant influence on the functioning of the member states at national level and of their local authorities, especially in countries with a smaller economy. it is therefore important that the european parliament, elected by the citizens of the union, has a substantial say in the change. unfortunately, parliament has no codecision power in amending this regulation, only consultation, and as i said earlier, this support mechanism has a significant political impact. it is therefore crucial that the european commission takes the european parliament's proposals into account and considers revising the current rules. the efficient use of public support creates jobs, increases the competitiveness of europe and its member states and improves the quality of life of its citizens. it can play a major role in stimulating economic growth and thereby balancing national budgets.
mr president, ireland suffered much at the beginning of the financial crisis but it is a shining example of how a society can renew itself if there is political consensus on what needs to be done. it is now customary to distinguish between a fiscal and a banking crisis although all crises become fiscal after recapitalisation. a crisis which originated in the financial sector may not reflect fiscal prudence. governments are never innocent. fiscal equilibrium based on inflated revenues created by a bubble economy ought not to have been considered sustainable in the first place. ireland can promote this simple truth. austerity, although unavoidable, is never enough to restart growth. the other indispensable component is the restoration of international competitiveness, which has been achieved by ireland. others should follow its example. an ugly by-product of the crisis is the upswing of racist, populist and extremist parties. these groups fight austerity and reforms without having a rational alternative. they blame foreigners, muslims, jews or roma for the hardship of natives. this trend has reached dangerous levels and become part of the mainstream. for example, a leading columnist of the hungarian government party compared roma to animals and declared them unfit for co-existence. the ruling party fidesz missed a magnificent opportunity to condemn this ugly, racist outburst. this proves my conviction that fidesz is in a cultural coalition with the extreme right. ireland has so far managed to escape the emergence of racism. it has the moral authority and obligation to uphold human rights before fascist parties gain respectability and power. the rotating presidency is obsolete, but it is important which country holds the presidency. it carries a huge political and moral authority.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, mr prime minister, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commissioner has handled this matter. first of all, i would like to congratulate the irish presidency on putting together such an excellent and ambitious programme for the coming six months, which are not without difficulties. the programme really captures the essence of what europe needs: stability, jobs and growth. stability in our common institutions, in our common policies, job creation for our children, for europe's youth and growth along the lines of common economic policy reforms. i would say that you are in a certain sense in an easy position, because the existing policy lines, the existing policy programmes, must be continued and completed, whether it be the continuation of the european semester, policies to complete the internal market or the representation of foreign policy-related issues. the situation is not that simple, even for a presidency as experienced as the irish presidency. first, the task is twofold. on the one hand, we must give substance and detail to the projects which have recently been launched, such as the draft banking union, or the question of common banking supervision and its timetable, and on the other hand we must find new tasks and new ways of solving them, because we must recognize that some of our instruments are outdated and have lost their relevance, in other words, their relevance. and the fact that you are sending a symbolic message and showing a real perspective to the younger generation by including the youth guarantee in your work programme, is offering employment or training and practical opportunities to many young people who have completely disappeared from the labour market. well, for that, i want to congratulate you. i also congratulate the minister on her work yesterday, she did a great job in the european parliament, and i wish her a lot of success with her programme for the next six months.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the irish presidency on its very careful preparation and for having put the issue of youth unemployment at the top of its agenda. i also welcome the ambitious objectives set in this programme on equality between women and men. i would like to draw your attention to two recent documents, the first on ‘the impact of the economic crisis on the situation of women and men and on gender equality policies’, the second being the 2012 ‘annual review of employment and social developments in europe’. both reports are proof that women have been hardest hit by the economic crisis in europe. austerity measures, as the sole response to the crisis, have further eroded the social situation since essential services such as healthcare, local government and child care, have been particularly affected. we urgently need a detailed impact assessment of the consequences of these measures on women and the guarantee that the gender factor will be taken into consideration in all policies to address the crisis.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. as a hungarian representative, i am particularly pleased that the chapter on sport in the irish and subsequent lithuanian presidency programmes is of particular importance for promoting healthy physical activity. the inclusion of the issue on the eu agenda is very timely, as statistics show that the recommended daily physical activity is not reached by citizens of most eu member states, and in some member states there has been a decline in recent years. however, it is well-known that regular physical activity is vital to maintaining good health and preventing disease. moreover, physical inactivity has a negative impact not only on the health of individuals but also on the health systems and the economy of the member states as a whole, as physical inactivity generates significant direct and indirect costs. many of you may already know that in hungary, it was precisely for this reason that we introduced daily physical education in primary schools in september 2012, which we would like to serve as an example for other eu member states. i also welcome the fact that the irish presidency intends to address a number of important issues closely related to the above, such as the challenges of sustainable financing of leisure sports. while member states are often fully aware of the socioeconomic benefits of regular physical activity, the resources available to them from the national budget are often limited to creating and maintaining the necessary sports infrastructure. the union must therefore also support the efforts of the member states in this area.
in writing. mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i welcome the irish presidency and ask it to continue the committed work we have been doing here in this parliament for years to make the area of law and justice work and to put it into practice. but everyday life still shows that our efforts are not perfect. it is a fact that outrages all people of good will in hungary as well as in ireland that francis tobin, an irish citizen who has been trampling two young children to death in hungary for more than a decade, has not yet served the prison sentence imposed on him by the hungarian judiciary. the hungarian public and the authorities are not interested in whether francis tobin is serving his sentence in hungary, but whether he is serving his sentence at all. it is unacceptable that their loopholes allow him to live his life with impunity, without any consequences. i ask the irish presidency to do everything possible to bring the tobin case to a close that is both lawful and just. i would ask the european commission to intervene and use the means at its disposal to help settle the matter as soon as possible, as this would mean that the european area of law and justice is viable in practice.
in writing. mr prime minister, dear members of the house of representatives! i'd like to draw attention to the issue of disability. in the last three years, disability has been treated at a high level, with the adoption of the 10-year disability strategy, the adoption of the european council conclusions on disability, the adoption of my report last september and the cyprus presidency organising a high-level conference on equal opportunities. i believe that 80 million people with disabilities deserve to be taken up by the irish presidency and treated with dignity, and i am particularly pleased that they want to deal with equal treatment and accessibility. i wish the irish presidency every success in this.
in writing. reducing divisions among eu member states will be a priority of the irish presidency of the eu, which will begin on 1 january. this has to show up in both areas. on the one hand, deepening economic policy integration, while keeping new areas of integration open to all member states. it is particularly important that an agreement on banking union was reached at the end of last year which does not further strengthen the division between the member states using the euro and those outside the euro area, the two-speed europe. however, the main challenge is to close the gap in the negotiations on the seven-year eu budget for 2014-2020. successful investment policies such as the reduction of the cohesion fund and the unfavourable change in the rules for its use would continue to hit those most affected by the crisis: the unemployed, the socially vulnerable and, in general, the disadvantaged regions. the irish presidency should give a new, different direction to the debate. ireland, which owes its remarkable development in the 1980s and 1990s mainly to cohesion policy, has hopefully not forgotten the importance of catching up with regions in economic distress, including many regions in hungary. we must not deviate from this objective in the future. a compromise must be reached by spring this year that is acceptable to the cohesion countries that are catching up, including hungary. this applies both to the level of the aid and to the rules on its use.
mr president, i would just like to indicate concerning my group voting list that the upcoming votes on the amendments are ‘no’, and it is wrongly marked in the voting list.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it would, for example, include a ban on uninitiated sovereign ratings and examine whether a credit rating agency can even rate a member state's creditworthiness. the adoption of the draft law may further restrict the merger of credit rating agencies that have already generated significant income from rating activities, as well as the previously unlimited ratings of structured finance products. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the european union is regulating the market for the third time in less than three years, from the first round of mandatory registration and the placing of credit rating agencies under the direct control of the european supervisory authority to the current comprehensive regulation, which is expected to pave the way for profound changes in the sector. one of the main anomalies is the excessive reliance on the opinions of credit rating agencies. european and national legislation currently confers institutional status on credit ratings in many cases, for example, the capital requirements for banks are not linked to credit rating opinions in one country alone. this was a very bad direction, and in my view it raises a number of problems. i voted in favour of the report as it obliges financial institutions to strengthen their own credit risk analysis and not rely solely and mechanically on external credit ratings.
in writing. − it is unacceptable that global economic developments and the assessment of individual countries' economies are influenced by credit ratings which, in recent years, have been responsible for deepening the economic crisis through a series of faulty and sometimes self-serving ratings. unfounded and unjustified downgrades increase financial market uncertainty and could push already struggling european states into further recession. the report adopted today allows for a review of shareholding in multiple credit rating agencies and introduces rotation in case of multiple ratings, which increases competition between credit rating agencies. i am voting in favour of not only making us the victims of unfounded ratings, but also of having a proper regulatory framework to ensure the transparent operation of credit rating agencies and to prevent unfounded ratings in the future.
in writing. − the widespread incorporation of credit ratings into legal instruments such as the ucits and aif directives may influence the use of credit ratings by regulated entities, the basis on which the managers of those entities decide in favour of the institutions concerned, and the competition between the institutions. it should be borne in mind that credit ratings are merely opinions on the future relative credit risk of legal entities, credit obligations or debt and equity securities and are useful measures of future creditworthiness. they do not measure other risks and therefore cannot be used as a tool to assess other characteristics of the securities in which ucits and aifs invest, such as liquidity risks, price volatility or marketability. i voted in favour of mr domenici's report, because i too can only support the legislative proposal put forward by the european commission. in my view, the general principle of avoiding excessive reliance on external credit ratings should be incorporated into the risk management procedures and systems of ucits and aifm managers and adapted to their specificities. i therefore believe that in the medium term further initiatives should be assessed, also for the reason that the rating should not be included in financial regulation.
in writing. − under the rules of procedure, if the number of candidates for the election of vice-presidents is equal to the number of vacancies, the president may order the candidates to be elected by a public call or by secret ballot. in the case of a public vote, the president shall decide at the same time on the rank of the vice-presidents. in practice, however, the election of vice-presidents is carried out by a public ballot, where there is agreement between the political groups on the persons to be appointed. the ranking of the vice-presidents shall then be determined by secret ballot. this solution is based on the fact that, although the groups usually agree on the persons to be elected, they do not agree on their place in the hierarchy, so that there would be no consensus on the decision of the president. in such cases, the president shall not exercise the prerogative of deciding on the ranking of the vice-presidents, which is provided for in parliament's rules of procedure. the purpose of this draft report is to amend the rules of procedure of the european parliament in order to bring it into line with parliament's practice.
in writing. − immediate action is needed to tackle unemployment and special attention should be paid to the situation of young people. youth unemployment figures are now particularly worrying, with a significant economic burden on member states, not to mention the long-term social consequences they generate. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution calling for the introduction of a youth guarantee.
in writing. − according to eurostat data, the unemployment rate among non-students aged 15-25 was 23.7% on average in the eu in november 2012. in greece and spain, the rate was over 50%, while in hungary 29.3% of young people were unemployed as of october 2012. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i too believe that the eu should play a role in financing the youth guarantee schemes, in particular through the use of the european social fund. to this end, i believe that at least a quarter of the structural funds should be allocated to the social fund. the ep also called on the european commission to help member states in financial difficulty to implement the programmes. i therefore welcome the draft, which i believe is a significant step forward in the fight against widespread youth unemployment.
in writing. − i welcome this report from the european people's party (epp) member of parliament, lena kolarska-bobinska, because anything that helps reduce europe's dependence on fossil fuels is valuable and useful for european citizens. however, the structural framework and the cohesion fund are essential for this, especially in view of the very ambitious objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in this regard. it is also important to emphasise that resources should be concentrated on projects that serve security of supply, in particular in the poorest regions, and that create the necessary infrastructure for this purpose. for example, wind energy must be delivered to the mainland of europe. currently, the unused quasi-surplus wind energy generated in the netherlands is not reaching the inland, landlocked areas of europe that are less rich in wind energy resources or are not, because the necessary infrastructure is not in place. i welcome the commission's plans to devote a significant part of the connecting europe facility budget to the development of energy infrastructure.
in writing. − in the future, the well-being of european citizens will be directly linked to the eu's ability to exploit the opportunities offered by emerging ecotechnology markets. regional policy is a highly effective mechanism to ensure that we can make the most of these opportunities by strategically managing resources. between 2007 and 2013, regional policy will allocate €105 billion for sustainable growth, and it is also crucial that managing authorities strive even more to invest more and more successfully. the close link between regional innovation policy measures and investments in energy, environment and climate change will stimulate job creation, competitiveness and raise living standards at both local and regional levels. strengthening eco-innovation requires smart investment, from energy-efficient buildings to clean urban transport. however, investment should be supported by the promotion of sustainable development principles at all levels of policy-making. if current trends continue, the world's population is projected to increase by 30 percent to 9 billion by 2050, and developing countries will rightly aspire to match the wealth and consumption of developed countries. i believe that we need to change both our consumption and production systems and take the lead in developing innovative, green economies, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − to provide new perspectives for citizens and markets, it is important to look to the medium term. i myself believe that the worsening crisis calls for immediate action: the ecb, for example, has had to launch a programme to provide liquidity to banks, and it is important to stress that interest rate differentials between member states are continuing to increase. despite implementing reforms, some member states pay higher interest rates, risking insolvency, while others enjoy extremely favourable interest rates, partly due to their excellent performance and partly due to the problems of their partners. i voted in favour of the goulard report because i believe that the instruments described in the report could be used, individually or in combination, to limit interest rate differentials, while maintaining discipline. i agree with the rapporteur that we should also consider the creation of a euro-area debt over time, with all the necessary guarantees, based on the budget's own revenue and supported by a budget that could play an anti-cyclical role and finance productive investments. the possibility is indeed worth analysing, in order to preserve the common stability of the euro area on the one hand and the budgetary freedom of the member states on the other.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
next item declaration by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the recommendations of the review conference of the npt on the establishment of a middle east free of weapons of mass destruction
in writing. the draft resolution of the review conference of the npt on the middle east free of weapons of mass destruction confronts european decision-makers with the major security challenges of our time. the question of action on iran's nuclear programme, as is well known, presents the entire transatlantic alliance with serious dilemmas. the overall security situation is further aggravated by the presence of a stockpile of highly dangerous chemical weapons in the hands of the syrian government, which, given the ongoing civil war in syria, could at any time spiral out of control. the road to a world free of weapons of mass destruction is a long and winding one. but we must not give up on the goal. at the same time, a world free of weapons of mass destruction cannot be achieved unilaterally, only on the basis of a treaty reflecting the common will and action of all parties concerned. of course, the civil use of nuclear energy may still be needed, but it is essential from a safety point of view to eliminate the risks of dual use. the european union will play a key role in creating a world free of weapons of mass destruction and, in particular, the nuclear threat. that is why i support this resolution.
in writing. - the president of the european parliament it is regrettable that the 2012 conference on the creation of a middle east free of weapons of mass destruction has not taken place. since the motion omits any specifics as to who possesses weapons of mass destruction in the region, thus threatening the peace of the world, i would like to ask you all a few questions. iran is being sanctioned by brussels because, despite evidence that it has as much as saddam hussein's biological weapons, the persian state is working on a secret nuclear weapons program. well, the iaea hasn't found anything yet. question: which country has hundreds of illegal nuclear warheads? iran or israel? which of you have illegal chemical and biological weapons? iran or israel? which country is not cooperating with the iaea, which is not a member? iran or israel? which state regularly wages war against its neighbors and occupies neighboring state lands in the middle east? iran or israel? what nation has violated dozens of un resolutions and even committed war crimes, according to some un reports? iran, or an associate member of the eu, israel? in what state, for the glory of democracy, are there roads, schools, institutions that only members of the majority nation can use? in which state does the law allow for discrimination on the basis of religion, ethnicity? thank you, sir.
my fellow citizens! this is a very important issue, as millions of passengers face the problem of conflicting information on their baggage on the airline website and, in some cases, oversized or overweight baggage at the airport. in such cases, airlines charge a disproportionate surcharge and often put passengers in a humiliating position. passenger rights are often violated, and this needs to be addressed as soon as possible. a general solution needs to be worked out. the european parliament has already dealt with this issue on several occasions, but i myself believe that a single charter of passenger rights is needed to deal with this issue. i've had speakers before me talk about musicians, women's handbags, and i'd like to talk about disability issues. we cannot allow any arbitrary regulations on the taking on board of the equipment, medical aids and medicines necessary for their independent life, because we are talking about the rights of citizens.
to what extent do the 1 hand baggage rule introduced by each airline take into account the interests of passengers? how much does it restrict passenger rights? the current practice is not harmonised, there are no uniform standards, so passengers have to compare prices and other conditions when buying air tickets, which is admittedly not an easy task. the regulations introduced by discount airlines a few years ago are causing increasing problems for passengers, as they are difficult to follow and compare with the practices of other airlines, not to mention that exceeding the limit is punished by a heavy surcharge, which can be several times the ticket price. the introduction of a uniform regime cannot therefore be delayed any longer in order to protect passengers and preserve the viability of the retail establishments operating at the airport. the european parliament has already addressed this issue in several resolutions. on 23 october 2012, it adopted an own-initiative report calling on the european commission to finally regulate the carriage of hand luggage on machinery. that's what you should do.
in writing . european citizens are almost completely exposed to the almost constantly changing baggage rules of mostly budget airlines. passengers often find conflicting information on the airline's website about baggage that can be taken on board and in many cases only at the airport do they find that their baggage is oversized or overweight, as per the individual regulations of the airlines. the airlines, especially the low-cost airlines, can also, in my view, impose disproportionate surcharges because of the excess weight and the larger size. this inappropriate behaviour must, in my opinion, be stopped immediately. i think the commission should take the necessary steps, because we need new regulations, a kind of unification. i myself have witnessed on many occasions during my travels that passengers have been humiliated when checking the size of their bags and in many cases have been forced to choose between paying the surcharge or throwing out certain items. i believe that in these cases the rights of passengers can be fundamentally violated. this is why it is necessary to restrict this behaviour of airlines as soon as possible and to bring it under uniform regulation. i therefore welcome the tran committee's proposal and can only hope that we will be able to discuss this matter under an accelerated procedure.
it is pointless to push the mercosur negotiations any further. they seem to be stuck and cannot be moved from this dead end. there are increasing political obstacles from mercosur's mistakes before negotiations can resume. european companies are being nationalized, the territorial integrity of some eu member states is being questioned, and venezuela has joined. under these circumstances, you have to accept that what you can't do isn't worth trying. moreover, the eu's original negotiating mandate was not sufficiently precise and well-defined, so that negotiations must be continued with those with whom there is a chance of concluding any agreement. this requires a new negotiating mandate. a new negotiating mandate that takes account of the sensitivity of agricultural products, food safety and animal welfare. under the current negotiating mandate, this is not a deal with mercosur.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, as i myself believe that the control of state aid must be modernised, firstly to improve the quality of commission supervision and to develop a tool to promote the rational use of public resources for the purposes of policies aimed at growth; and secondly to limit distortions of competition which would jeopardise the level playing field in the internal market. the current complex substantive and procedural framework which applies to both small and large cases poses a significant challenge to the control of state aid. the econ committee's current position is that the proposals, in particular the amendment to the rules of procedure, concern the methods of monitoring by the commission the decisions of the national and local authorities elected, and that democratic scrutiny of these texts by parliament is therefore strongly warranted. i myself believe that the lack of co-decision in this area should be reviewed with a view to harmonising it with other aspects of economic regulation. europe's growth potential can only be enhanced by better targeting public spending and creating the conditions for a recovery to begin and to continue. in order to achieve common european objectives, public spending must become more efficient and effective and must be geared even more towards policies that stimulate growth. but these policies cannot be created by bypassing the european parliament!
in writing. − the existence, excessive concentration and inadequate control of weapons of mass destruction pose a particularly serious threat to the security of the world, especially in some states of the middle east. i want my children to grow up in a world where these weapons don't exist. the fight against this is not easy, but it must be fought and the european union must play a leading role in it.
in writing. − as a member of the fidesz ep delegation, i rejected the decision on the eu/mercosur free trade negotiations. the european commission's negotiating mandate dates from 1999, before the 2004 enlargement. with the accession of new member states, brussels should have asked for a new mandate. in particular, impact studies suggest that one of the biggest losers from the convention will be a member state that joined in 2004, hungary.
in writing. - the present decision is, in my view, pointless, as the negotiations have stalled. this is partly due to differences between mercosur member states and partly to the political behaviour of some mercosur members. i would like to point out that venezuela only became a full member of the community last summer after the opposition of paraguay was suspended. and argentina has an open territorial dispute with one of the eu member states, the uk. in my view, the only option would be for the eu to open trade negotiations with each of the mercosur member states that are able to do so. however, this requires a new negotiating mandate, which is why i voted against this resolution. i believe that the new negotiating mandates should take much greater account of the interests of the new member states and farmers and should incorporate the eu's animal welfare and food safety requirements.
mr president, less than a month ago we had a debate on the harsh situation faced by women in india. the shameful events of the past few weeks are a tragic reminder of the fact that indian women remain exposed on a daily basis to physical and sexual abuse and social discrimination. the rape and murder of this young student that drew widespread public outrage is therefore only the tip of the iceberg. every country in the world is expected to respect fundamental human rights, but india, as the world’s largest democratic country, would be expected to meet even higher standards. therefore the international community and the eu in particular have to call on india to ensure true enforcement of existing legislation, as well as to introduce an exhaustive legislative package aimed at protecting victims of all forms of gender-based discrimination. this requires genuine political will, not only on the part of the central government, but also from local authorities and private companies. otherwise, the situation of the thousands of women who suffer without making headlines will remain unchanged.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, despite some positive developments around the turn of the millennium, including the granting of voting rights to women, the human rights situation in bahrain has started to decline over the past few years. there are reports of torture carried out by state authorities, the use of excessive force against peaceful protestors and the imprisonment of human rights activists. in addition, international human rights organisations and journalists are not allowed to enter the country. the current situation does not serve the interests of the bahraini government either. ratifying the international human rights convention would be an important step towards regaining the confidence of the international community. moreover, the establishment of an international monitoring mechanism is essential to guarantee its proper implementation. the citizens of bahrain must have the right to express their political opinion freely, be it at a peaceful demonstration or on a post on a social networking site. i strongly hope that the next general elections in 2014 will take place in a more democratic atmosphere and that the steady increase in political participation by women will continue.
madam president, as a human rights and women’s rights lawyer, i am always happy when there is yet another document produced by the european union about protecting the human rights of its citizens in general, and battered women’s rights in particular, but i would be even happier to see these documents and this commitment actually working. let me give you a test case, and let us see together whether these things work in practice. there is a hungarian women called patricia. she marries a french citizen. unfortunately, as is too often the case, regular domestic violence starts when the woman is pregnant with their child. as an integral part of the usual process of domestic violence, the man takes the family to a french polynesian island called bora bora with a promise that they will have a last try at keeping their marriage and their family together. the battering continues and it turns out that the man just wanted to falsely establish the jurisdiction of french polynesia over them – a territory with which they have absolutely no legal or other ties. guess what happens. neither the french government nor the european union or anybody else helps this women, who is now being kept hostage in french polynesia along with her four-year-old child. the bora bora local court has actually decided by an injunction, a temporary order, that the child has to spend one week with the father and one week with the mother and bans the child from leaving the territory of polynesia. this obviously means that the woman is also taken hostage along with the child. so what can the european union do in this actual situation of an actual battered woman and her child? with all these documents and all this commitment, what can the eu do and what can it promise this woman and her child?
mr president, on the eve of the 57th session of the united nations commission on the status of women, the violence that women keep enduring in multiple physical or less visible forms remains at an alarmingly high level. this is both within and outside the eu, despite numerous international and european commitments. i would therefore urge the eu to have a strong common position during this session of the csw in order to achieve, this time, tangible conclusions and results. violence against women stems from many different factors and we need a comprehensive action plan with sufficient funding. this also means keeping a high level of funding for already existing programmes such as daphne. i would call once more on the member states to sign and ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women but, as vice-president reding stated herself, what we need above all is a strong political vehicle to ensure that legislation and declarations are followed by concrete actions. this, sadly, is not yet the case today, and i would like to underline that this political will also needs to come from her and the commission. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – i am very happy that you agree it is important to combat violence against women. do you also agree that this issue is above party politics? would you be willing – as a fellow hungarian female mep – to initiate a common fight, involving all female meps across party lines from hungary and everywhere else, for the freedom of patricia nyiri-kovács, the battered mother whom i mentioned?
blue-card answer. – i believe that violence against women is a cross-party issue. i can state, as president of the european socialist party’s women’s organisation, that we have started several campaigns, including ‘my body, my rights’, which talks very clearly about this very serious problem that affects women young and old, not just in europe but also on other continents. the question which you have asked concerns a very important topic, so let us sit down together and discuss it.
in writing. – one in every four adult women in the eu becomes a victim of violence once in her lifetime and 15 % of women are victimised every day, often by those who are closest to them. an appalling half a million women in the eu have been subjected to genital mutilation, 6 000 girls are being tortured everyday in the world. it is also alarming that there are no proper official data about the practice of forced sterilisation, which several roma women have been subjected to throughout the eu and several experts on human rights allege that this practice is continuing to date. one of the primary prerequisites for stepping up action against all forms of violence against women is to have proper statistical data. furthermore, effective sanctions need to be introduced against perpetrators, enabling law enforcement officials to mobilise all available instruments for combating violence and, taking into consideration that violence often takes place behind closed doors, the close cooperation of national authorities and institutions with civil society, women’s rights organisations and representatives of affected communities is essential for eradicating all forms of violence against women.
i simply do not understand how it is possible to put countries in completely different situations under one roof, as is the usual practice in the european union. for example, how can we treat small businesses equally, say, in neighbouring austria and hungary, when in austria, generations could pass on their small businesses without interruption, while in hungary, it was communism, and businesses were closed, taken away, and the owners were often punished. after the so-called change of regime, small enterprises had to be built from scratch in hungary. of course, they're in much more need of capital than anywhere else. similarly, after the so-called change of system, western big companies and multinational big companies threw themselves hyena-like into the new market, and in a way that i still don't understand, for example, the hungarian governments supported them one after the other. assembly plants have been set up, third world conditions have been created, people are working in wage slavery instead of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses. i ask on behalf of small businesses that the european union put pressure on this and similar approaches.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. improving access to finance for smes is an important union interest as the sector is a key player in the european economy. in support of this claim, it is sufficient to mention their prominent role in employment. as the hungarian representative, i must emphasize that two thirds of the people employed in hungary are employed in this sector. small and medium-sized enterprises can therefore, in my view, be one of the driving forces behind the way out of the crisis. however, the sme sector is in a very vulnerable position. they are generally undercapitalised, and this is particularly true of the companies in the east-central european region, which lost everything in the dark days of socialism and were subject to all the measures taken by the state to make them unable to operate until the mid-1980s. it is therefore of paramount importance to facilitate their access to finance and reduce their administrative burden, as well as to provide certain preferential tax treatment for the business sector. on this basis, i welcome the commission's proposal, but we must also recognise that access to risk capital is only a solution for a small number of smes. the commission must therefore continue to look for alternative funding options. i therefore propose that we also examine how the record savings of the general public could be channelled into the financing of the sector through tax incentives.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the trend in europe is towards an increase in the average age of the population. this is, of course, a welcome development, but it also presents national governments with a number of challenges. and i'm not just talking about the financial sustainability of health care systems, but also, for example, improving the living conditions of older people, helping them to exercise regularly. i have tabled several amendments to the report which serve this purpose. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their help in finally putting these proposals in the report. article 7 (c) of the report warns that lack of regular physical activity leads to a number of health problems. it's the fourth most common risk factor for death, according to the who. the report also points out that regular physical activity, which is a habit in childhood, becomes a natural need in adulthood and can thus be eliminated as a risk factor. in hungary, since september 2012, we have introduced daily physical education in primary schools in the lower grades. i think this model should be adopted in other european countries.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i welcome the report before us. i would like to thank mrs parvanova, the rapporteur, for including many of the suggestions we have made in the report. i am pleased that the deadlines in the commission proposal, which we consider too short, have been extended. i am pleased that the obligation to notify all measures to the commission three months before their planned introduction will be abolished, thus allowing governments to take decisions in favour of the citizens of the member states where appropriate. finally, i welcome the fact that article 15 (a) states that the commission and the member states should also examine how to continue to cooperate on the maintenance of the euripid information database. i am convinced that this programme will greatly facilitate and assist the member states in their price orientation and in the coordination of price formation. i am proud that this programme was created with the participation of hungary through the hungarian health insurance fund, and that many member states are participating in it. we want the commission to continue to provide aid, because without it the system cannot work.
in writing. i have myself followed this report and i must say that i strongly agree with mrs parvanova that the main objective of this proposal should be to amend the existing legal framework. i believe it is very important to clarify the procedural obligations of the member states and to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the effectiveness of internal market legislation, in order to avoid delays in price-setting and price-support decisions and to overcome obstacles to trade in medicinal products. i also consider that proportionality is essential to ensure the practical and reasonable implementation of the measures provided for in this directive. in line with the proposed extension of the deadlines for generic medicinal products, i believe that the amendments voted by the committee will ensure the practical and effective implementation of the envisaged provisions and will thus also provide the necessary flexibility and autonomy for the national competent authorities to comply with the requirements of this directive. i therefore welcome the report, thank my bulgarian colleague for his work and ask everyone to support this great report in the vote.
i would also like to congratulate the newly elected president of the czech republic. i hope that the political professionalism he has expressed will also be reflected in european professionalism, which will lead him to change his opinion on the beneš decrees and help to deregulate the nuremberg-type racial laws from the slovak legal order. yes, my distinguished colleagues. in 2013, the only way to win the presidential election in a member state of the european union is to have the candidate defend the historical figure who, among other things, punished the sudeten and hungarians with collective guilt, while the losing presidential candidate apostrophized eduard benešt as the hague criminal. i would therefore like to remind you and the new czech president of the principle of the union known as ratione temporis and ask the president to fight for the truth of this principle of the union. like us in the committee on petitions, he should also work to ensure that the slovak legal system deregulates its nuremberg-type legislation containing collective offenses from its own legal system.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. there have been reports of minority and anti-christian statements from two eu candidate countries. in turkey, the armenian holocaust is remembered with sadness by the series of violent attacks on usually elderly and helpless armenian women in the christian district of samalya, which also claimed lives. in serbia, the ethnic cleansing of the bloody balkan war is being recalled in the hungarian town of temerin, where more violence has been committed against innocent hungarian youths last week. in this context, i hereby call the attention of the european parliament, the commission and the council to the need to make the protection of national and religious minorities an exclusive condition of accession for both candidate countries, in accordance with the copenhagen criteria.
as a result of the reparations following the change of regime, two million hungarian people got back their rightful property, their land, which was taken away during the communist era. although the form of compensation had a disastrous effect on agriculture, its social justice and moral basis are still unquestioned. in contrast, the current hungarian government's new land law project threatens their property. the new regulations will narrow down the range of buyers, lower the price of land. this will drastically devalue the wealth of 1.5 million hungarian people. many, not just the owners, thought that by selling a few acres of their land, they could afford to send their children and grandchildren to school, to buy a home, or to supplement their pension. we cannot allow the orbán government to seriously harm one and a half million people. it cannot be allowed to infringe eu fundamental law by restricting the right to private property.
in writing. the new common fisheries policy should pay greater attention to aquaculture, including freshwater fisheries. marine fisheries are unsustainable: 30% of the world's seas are overfished, meaning that there are not enough fish left to sustain the population. according to the un food and agriculture organization, this has already led to a significant decline in catches of 2% in 2012. aquaculture, on the other hand, ensures sustainable fish production. freshwater fish farming, for which hungary has excellent potential, not only contributes to food security but can also create a significant number of jobs and help maintain biodiversity, as freshwater lakes, as aquatic habitats, provide habitat for numerous bird and other animal species, most of which are under natura 2000 protection. the financial support for the aquaculture sector from the eu budget should therefore be significantly increased in the 2014-2020 budget period.
in writing. − successive amendments to the existing regulation, the development of eu law and then the experience gained from its practical implementation, and the establishment of a new regulatory framework following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon all require the recasting of certain provisions and the recasting of the proposal. the proposed recast clarifies the objectives of the regulation and seeks to restructure the text of the legislation for implementation purposes. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that closer cooperation between the new local authorities in greece in all areas could allow for a more effective implementation of the measures in line with the management requirements of the aegean islands.
in writing. - 99% of european enterprises, i.e. 85% of jobs (two thirds of private sector jobs) are provided by smes. the commission estimates that this amounts to 23 million smes, thus constituting the backbone of the union economy. it is well known that smes have been hit hardest by the financial and economic crisis, with almost one third of smes applying for bank loans being consistently rejected or receiving loans well below the amount requested over the past two years. however, lenders are not more cautious in lending to smes in all member states, as some member states have invested record amounts in smes in recent years. bank loans are the main form of financing for smes, but the results of the ecb's october 2011 banking survey show that credit quality requirements for loans to smes have generally increased significantly. in addition to the above mentioned problems, the report addresses regulatory issues related to capital requirements, improving communication between credit institutions and smes, transparency issues, etc. i welcome parliament's own-initiative report on improving access to finance for smes.
in writing. − both the commission and the member states have made real efforts to improve the competitive position of smes, but more action is needed today. i continue to attach importance to any initiative that ensures that eu instruments to support smes are used more effectively or that contributes to the smooth running of this business community. the sme test is a good example of the latter, which allows a preliminary examination of the impact of legislation on smes. i would also mention the operation of eu sme portals proposed in the report, which will allow european programmes for smes to operate more efficiently. in my view, a well-functioning single market creates a competitive environment in which smes can better exploit the opportunities offered by globalisation, which would open up new opportunities in the fields of knowledge and innovation. however, smes are currently unable to fully benefit from the single market, largely because they lack sufficient information about funding opportunities and rules applicable in other member states, and their language skills are poor. i myself believe that an eu strategy for better regulation is needed and that the ambitious proposals put forward by mr de backer are essential to make europe more competitive and attractive both for investors and for producers.
blue-card question. – just a quick question. you say that many people feel that austerity is good. no, we do not feel that. we only say that austerity is unavoidable, it is necessary. you say that austerity is anti-growth. no, we say that without a balanced budget, you will have high interest rates and banks will not lend. are you aware of the impact of public overspending crowding out investments in the private market?
madam president! now that the european commission has launched the semester with its 2013 growth report, i would like to stress that we in parliament, in the absence of any other legal instrument, express our views in our own-initiative reports. this is obviously not legally binding, but we would like to draw the council's attention to the fact that this represents a kind of democratic deficit and that it should follow the debate closely and incorporate what has been said into the guidelines being drawn up. i myself am from the committee on employment and social affairs, and we obviously put these aspects first and we have had to face a rather disappointing picture. in practice, the social situation is continuing to deteriorate, and unemployment, as many have said, is continuing to rise. only seven of the 27 member states have seen an improvement in employment, all the others have seen a deterioration, so the trends are not very promising at the moment. moreover, there is little to say about any progress towards the 2020 strategic objectives. i especially miss the employment, job creation plans. i miss the tax cuts that are or will be expected there, the reduction in taxes on labor, the reduction in undeclared undeclared labor, the modernization of wage-setting systems. we talk about these things over and over again, and practically nothing happens. we agreed in committee, of course, on the priority of youth, and two other elements, if the president will allow, at the level of mention only. we attach particular importance to the report by mr schwab on the governance of the single market and would particularly emphasise the priority given to access to finance for smes, which are essential to improving the labour market situation.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr gutiérrez prieto, i would like to ask you the following question: how could spain finance a deficit greater than it has now? what interest rate could spain finance if it did not reduce the deficit?
the european financial semester is a check on irresponsible spending by member states. i find it very useful that the european commission is looking at governments. this is an important guarantee for european citizens. however, economic policies that focus exclusively on austerity stifle growth and lead to job losses. commissioner andor has repeatedly pointed out that the stifling of growth, the cutting of social spending and the disruption of social dialogue are unsustainable. it is clear that in several member states we have reached the limits of the population's capacity to tolerate. the biggest losers from austerity are the poorest sections of society. hunger marches have been launched in hungary for the second time this year from several disadvantaged areas. citizens protest against the austerity policies of the hungarian government, undertaking to walk more than 200 km to budapest, and thus want to draw attention to their hopeless and intolerable situation.
thank you very much. i would like to address commissioner andor in our common mother tongue, hungarian. the commissioner mentioned the word 'flexibility' several times in his speech when he spoke about the labour market and improving the employment situation. i'm asking you to define exactly what you mean by flexibility. i fear that what is called flexibility in the eu and in the vocabulary of multinational companies in general is a total disqualification, particularly for workers in peripheral countries and particularly for those working in multinational assembly plants. flexibility is nothing but working hours, rest periods, dismissal conditions, or the complete disorder of working conditions, the complete deprivation of labour rights, as a result of which, for example in our common country, hungary, workers work in third world conditions. that's my definition of it. what is your definition, commissioner andor?
in writing. – cohesion policy is the best tool available for making the recovery as job-rich as possible; it should therefore be a cornerstone of the annual growth survey. cohesion policy is an investment policy which serves the interests of all eu member states, keeping in mind the spirit of solidarity. an ambitious cohesion policy can make our regions capable of coping with the impact of the crisis in coming years. i deeply regret therefore that the commission has not paid even more attention in the 2013 annual growth survey to regional policy and its usefulness in attaining the europe 2020 strategy’s goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. one headline target of the europe 2020 strategy is that by 2020 75 % of the population aged 20-64 should be employed. member states should make full use of the structural funds through active labour market policies in order to enhance the employability of all age groups, enable longer working lives and combat structural and long-term unemployment. a strong cohesion policy is in the interest of all regions of the eu, therefore the funding for cohesion policy should stay at least at the level of the 2007-2013 period.
in writing. mr. schwab did an excellent job. on the issue of the single market, i should mention that the european parliament has already taken the position that by 2020 accessibility for people with disabilities should not be a secondary consideration. in the context of the report, i explained in the committee on employment and social affairs that the internal market cannot contribute to the exclusion of people with disabilities by merely referring to competition. i am pleased to know that the rapporteur accepts the need for stronger action in the areas of consumer protection and product and service development, because the internal market is for people and not the other way around. the honourable rapporteur also accepted my view that when analysing sectors that play an important role in ensuring the single market (e.g. transport and digital), the annual report on the integration of the single market should also pay greater attention to people with disabilities, who currently still face serious difficulties in the built environment and in services that are not accessible to them. finally, taking account of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which has already been ratified by the european union, is also an important recommendation for the work of the internal market advisory committee when we talk about empowering this advisory body to also have a special focus on accessibility under the convention.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all i would like to recall that the agreement on the new mff for 2014 to 2020 has still not been reached and, therefore, the ceiling for heading 5 of the eu budget in 2014 has not been established. any conclusions we draw tonight after this debate and tomorrow after our votes can be significantly influenced and changed by the outcome of the european council this week. on the other hand, at this stage of the annual procedure, parliament is awaiting estimates from other institutions, as well as its own bureau’s proposals, for the 2014 budget, so we have to prepare our proposal as much as possible in dialogue with you. budgetary approaches and priorities may turn out to be very different, therefore, in the coming months, and we have to learn to speak a common language: one set of numbers, especially with regard to what we mean by efficiency and by savings. in the european parliament – because we wish to be the role model for other institutions – major steps have already been made. on the initiative of the socialists and democrats group, members’ allowances have been frozen at the 2011 level until the end of the current parliamentary term. furthermore, it has to be noted that staff mission allowances have not been indexed since 2007. besides this, other structural reforms have already been agreed in parliament, some of which have been applied since 2011 and are estimated to allow savings of approximately eur 29 million per year – despite the increase in parliament’s powers, additional costs of new member states after the lisbon treaty, and the preparations for croatia’s accession, which have been absorbed. with regard to the new steps, the following general priorities are considered to be the most important by the socialists and democrats: first, in solidarity with the difficult economic and budgetary conditions in the member states, the european parliament and other institutions should continue to modernise their budget, as europe’s citizens recognise, while limiting or freezing their administrative expenditure. second, savings and efficiencies should be made by identifying overlaps and inefficiencies across budgetary lines. third, the structural and organisational reforms and modernisation must be continued, to deliver greater added value by successful and effective management while respecting labour rights. fourth, we have to keep in mind that in 2014 we have elections. therefore, those costs have to be counted differently. do not forget we wish to deliver on our mission: more europe for all and a better european parliament for everybody.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it seems quite superfluous to have a debate in this parliament today on the general outline of the 2014 budget. there is no agreement among the european states and governments on the mff. herman van rompuy has already said that it is too early to reach a good compromise this week. my priorities are: much less money for administration and bureaucracy. i support all the proposals mr ashworth has made. secondly, i have said many times that we need only economy class flex tickets for all travel in europe. i always fly economy class flex. thirdly, we do not need a fleet of cars in strasbourg. public transportation is very good. we do not need information offices in all the member states. i ask for new promises and procedures for europe.
the european parliament has already called on the european commission to further develop its corporate social responsibility policy in its resolutions of 2007 and 2011. in its latest communication, the commission is now incorporating responsibility into european thinking. it's a welcome and good move, improving communication. i agree with mr howitt, the rapporteur, that social responsibility is crucial to restoring business confidence, to a sustainable economic recovery, especially now that we are in a crisis. there are many ways in which responsible businesses can demonstrate their commitment, creating new jobs for young people, complementing healthcare, contributing to pension schemes, reducing exploitative work practices, and creating special opportunities for people with disabilities. it's a long list. what the people's party is emphasizing is that these companies should be voluntary. it's a voluntary activity. the company can decide what it can do to keep it profitable, because it's important to keep it profitable. anti-social behavior, violation of the law is another matter. there are forums, there are institutions, there are standards to be met, but social responsibility is not the answer to everything. i can tell mr howitt that less would probably have been more in this case, because not every single area, from environmental protection to ratification and compliance with international legal standards, from various investment policies to collective bargaining, can be solved in this vineyard. i think it would have been better to concentrate on the most important elements and i ask that the compromises which were reached with great difficulty be upheld in the vote tomorrow.
corporate social responsibility is not a luxury of an economically prosperous time. in times of crisis, in mitigating the effects of crisis, perhaps even more important. it's also in the mutual interest of society and corporations. moving forward requires, above all, that corporate social contributions be transparent. when consumers make choices, they weigh the moral value of companies along with price. it is also important that companies not only support programmes that reach the audiences they care about, but also set longer-term social goals. develop a csr strategy that also supports the eu 2020 strategy. i would like to emphasise in particular the role of the corporate contribution in the field of social inclusion, the youth guarantee, the need to create traineeships and jobs for young people, including young people with a disadvantaged background, roma and people with disabilities. there are training initiatives, but it is also necessary to make education in social responsibility, in responsible management, general.
the european union, and hungary, for that matter, must attract all the capital into the development of the economy that benefits citizens, that is, that is able to adopt modern technology, that creates jobs and pays fair taxes. in addition, multinational corporations and the financial sector are expected to take greater responsibility for society in times of crisis. in hungary, however, the orbán government's reckless tax policies on the corporate sector are discouraging companies from investing, creating new jobs, and increasing their social responsibility. we should not punish them, but rather, we should benefit from their presence. we must ensure that multinational companies operating in our country invest a significant part of their profits in hungary, especially in the development of education and research. by recycling the profits, hungary would be more competitive.
mr president, the potential of social inclusion policies to support or even drive competitiveness and innovation and growth has largely been unfortunately neglected when tracing possible routes to economic recovery. but a monetary pillar without a social and economic pillar is doomed to fail. therefore this neglect is harmful, not only because it leaves people in the most fragile socio-economic situation unprotected, but also because it underestimates the crucial importance of social inclusion, and labour market integration in particular, to retaining and developing the economy. for that reason members should reflect their respective strategies to improve the socio-economic situation of marginalised communities in their national budgetary policies and consider social inclusion as a very essential part of the strategy for smart and inclusive growth and fiscal consolidation. we are now at a historic moment in which societies in all regions of the eu are demanding changes to certain models and structures which have failed and are clearly not working. in this sense, countries cannot afford to waste the potential of any part of their population. investing in social inclusion is more than a matter of human rights; it stands for good economic sense and means progress for all of us and our future generations. giving priority to social inclusion is not optional now, it is obligatory.
i saw a cartoon in the last season of cwt, 17 skinny cows beating each other up. this meeting of the heads of government is becoming more and more like 27 skinny cows beating each other. this is not the right direction. we have brought a lot of policies to the european level in recent years, innovation or small business policy. therefore, the allocation of resources at member state level was significantly reduced. can you imagine now that we are also spending these funds at european level? the european parliament says no to that. ladies and gentlemen! the largest reserves are in the employment of young people who have just left school with up-to-date knowledge and in economic development based on scientific and technological progress. that's what we have to do. that's the vision we're asking you to have. finally, let me mention one issue on which we in hungary agree, although we agree on very few issues. all the parties in hungary agree to support the international team from mali. to that end, we wish you a very successful presidency.
in writing. – the protest taking place this morning outside these walls reminds us of the harsh reality faced by many european citizens and workers. moreover it highlights the need for europe to come up with a concrete and ambitious common strategy for re-industrialisation. we need investment in research, innovation and transport if we want to foster the single market and europe to compete in an increasingly globalised world. in my country hungary, citizens from the countryside recently organised so-called ‘hunger marches’ because the crisis, the closing of local factories and the austerity measures are making it more and more difficult for them to purchase even the most basic product: food. we now have four million people living below the poverty line in hungary and this is something i never thought i would have to witness, especially after hungary’s accession to the eu. this reminds us that we need a sustainable budget that includes provision for the most vulnerable of our member states and citizens, therefore i urge the member states to put aside their differences and short-term electoral views and remember the principles on which this union was founded: solidarity and long-term vision.
in writing. the budget proposals discussed last november were already unacceptable cuts compared to the commission's original proposal. it is intolerable that some member states want to reduce this even further. my country, hungary, could already lose 30% of its cohesion support, seven billion euros, making it the biggest unfair loser in this endless budgetary drag. if the february european council fails to reach an acceptable agreement on the union's seven-year budget, the heads of state or government in the council will issue a poverty certificate for themselves. however, the much bigger problem is that member states and their citizens are condemned to poverty if they are in a difficult economic situation and would not be able to invest without eu funds. in hungary, for example, 97% of public investments are co-financed. we are already behind schedule: the aid programmes should be operational by this time next year, and there is no agreement on the principal amount! who will bear the responsibility for this to the population of the disadvantaged regions, including the regions of hungary? who is responsible for the shock that the sudden and drastic reduction of subsidies will cause to the hungarian regions and microregions in difficulty? we must not risk the recovery of entire countries, or indeed the most important value of the european union as a whole, solidarity, by demanding cuts in expenditure out of nationalist pride, selfishness and budgetary reimbursements that are the result of a misunderstanding of european solidarity.
madam president, i apologise to the house for taking your time with our internal matters. we have a mistake in our voting list under 106. the first part we voted ‘no’ and the second part ‘yes’. i apologise for taking your time.
in writing. − the past few years have shown that the eu's common fisheries policy has failed. it has proved impossible to solve longstanding problems, in particular overfishing and overcapacity. marine fisheries are unsustainable at the current level. the fidesz delegation in the european parliament therefore rejects proposals that would allow the continuation of sea fishing, resulting in overfishing of natural waters. unlike marine fisheries, aquaculture sustainably meets the market demand for fish. freshwater fish farming, for which hungary has excellent potential, not only contributes to food security but can also create a significant number of jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report proposing the harmonisation of permissible noise levels for the technical requirements for the type-approval of motor vehicles and their exhaust systems. this is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and for ensuring a high level of environmental protection and public safety, as well as for improving health and quality of life. i agree with the report's recommendation that the commission should carry out an impact assessment of the labelling conditions applicable to air and noise pollution levels. the labelling facilitates the consumer's orientation during the pre-purchase information process. i also think it is important that consumers are provided with information after purchase on how the quality of use and maintenance affects car emissions and how both consumption and noise emissions can be reduced. the appropriate infrastructure is essential for the effective harmonisation of the permissible noise level, and therefore the type and quality of the road surface are important. although noise pollution is a more local problem, it requires a solution at eu level. the commission's proposal to build noise barriers could help to alleviate local nuisances.
in writing. − i am fully in favour of eliminating and preventing all forms of violence against women and girls. violence against women and girls is a global phenomenon, taking many forms and occurring in all member states. i agree that all forms of violence against women must be addressed as it impedes women from fully exercising their human rights and fundamental freedoms. ending violence is vital, not least because violence itself affects millions of girls and women and also indirectly and directly weakens families, communities, and nations. i believe that effective international cooperation is needed to eliminate and prevent violence against women and girls, and i therefore support the adoption of this motion, as it will allow us to act together to protect the physical and mental health of women and girls.
mr president, the kurdish problem was built into the turkish political system from the outset. the kurdish population of turkey was denied its political rights as kurds and, as the country modernised, they began to demand changes. the turkish state, with its strongly centralising tradition, refused, and the result was violence: a low-level insurgency that has claimed many lives. what has changed in the last few years is the slow shift in the attitude of the turkish government which is moving, however reluctantly, towards accepting that the suppression of the kurds does not work. equally, the emergence of a very extensive autonomy in the kurdish region of iraq has shown that kurds are perfectly capable of acting as a factor of stability and do not threaten turkish territorial integrity. against this background, it is vital that the turkish government recognise that, without accepting kurds as equal citizens, the turkish state will be the scene of ongoing conflict, one that will gravely weaken the chances of sustaining a functioning democracy. let there be no illusions about this: the change we are discussing requires a redesign of the turkish state and citizen concept, and a shift away from the mono-ethnic basis that has marked turkey since its emergence from the ottoman empire. it has to become markedly more tolerant towards those of its citizens who are not ethnically turks or sunni muslim. but the kurds too will have to accept that their future lies in turkey and that they should not dream of restoring the state that was promised them after the first world war by the west. territorial integrity, as we know, is a neuralgic point for any state. this is what the transformation is about, and we should not pretend that it will be easy. giving up bad habits is hard.
he's asking a question of the utmost importance to congressman sógor. i would like to ask my brother-in-law, in our common mother tongue, hungarian, and to note that i am very sorry that the commission representative is no longer here, that i too have experienced that the european union is obviously not concerned at all about the situation of the indigenous hungarian minorities and other minorities, but could he give, for the sake of the protocol, a list of examples of the types of violations that have occurred and that the european union is not concerned about them and why we should draw attention to the fact that it is setting a very bad example within the borders of the european union itself when it does not deal with indigenous minorities or the protection of their rights. so i want to ask for examples and possibilities of how the european union could deal with these if it wanted to.
mr president, people should do more than pay lip service to eu citizens’ human rights as well. if baroness ashton considers freedom of assembly a priority, she should raise her voice against the disproportionate police violence that goes on on the streets of europe almost daily. if she is concerned about women’s rights and children’s rights, she should use her powers to rescue the hungarian woman, patrícia nyíri kovács and her four-year-old child, who have been held hostage on the french polynesian island of bora bora for over a year. i am afraid i do not know why baroness ashton is not here in person, but i wonder if ms creighton could address these questions in her answer and kindly pass on the message to baroness ashton. anything you need to know about this hungarian case can be found on the facebook page, ‘not without my son’.
in writing. i am pleased that the debate and resolution on the 22nd session of the un human rights council has been included on the agenda of our plenary session this week. this also confirms the eu's commitment to be an active participant in the work of the human rights council as a major international actor, speaking with one voice on behalf of the member states. i would like to welcome the fact that the protection of children's rights is a priority issue for the next session of the un human rights council. the protection of children is essential at the highest levels, as they have always been one of the most vulnerable and vulnerable groups in society. they are the victims, whether it's domestic violence, the conflict between the system and the individual, or the consequences of war. minority children are even more vulnerable. roma and national minority children face discrimination every day, sometimes because of the use of their mother tongue, in the street, on the playground, at school. i therefore hope that the next un human rights council will make real progress in the protection of children's rights - both in the eu and in non-eu countries.
blue-card question. – i am so happy to hear that the european union actually does have the authority to strengthen the independence of judiciaries of member states in cases of criminal investigations, in cases of violent crimes. does this mean that we have a hope in hungary that finally those police leaders and socialist government leaders who were shooting at us in 2006 will finally … (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – i was just wondering whether the need for the bulgarian market was not on the list by any chance – access to the bulgarian market by western businesses.
we have said many times here that the union has strong incentives to help the countries in the process of accession to make democratic transitions, to ensure that media freedom and the rule of law are respected. and what we see is that many times, once you join, not only does the motivation go away, but the process is reversed. now, we face this danger in bulgaria, where we are getting more and more reports that the lack of transparency in media ownership and media concentration could threaten the freedom and diversity of the press. following the previous elections, the osce election observers made a number of objections and proposals, which have not been transposed into law since then. this could raise questions about the integrity of the parliamentary elections this summer. we ask the commission to monitor continuously whether the rule of law, the integrity of elections and a level playing field for political competition in bulgaria are not being violated.
madam president, i feel empathy towards bulgaria’s citizens because what we have been seeing in bulgaria for a while now sadly reminds me of what is happening in my country, hungary. the recent assault on mr doğan and the lack of an appropriate reaction from the bulgarian authorities are unfortunately only the tip of the iceberg. we have been witnessing repeated breaches of the rule of law under the current bulgarian government. the bulgarian government is organising a witch-hunt against citizens who demonstrated during the recent referendum on the nuclear power plant. this is just another example of violations that we know too well in hungary. we are also sadly familiar with the restrictions on media freedom that we are witnessing in bulgaria today. the problems of a single member state are the common concerns of our community based on democracy, the rule of law and shared values. moreover, similar events in other member states show how contagious this tendency can become. therefore i urge the commission and the council of europe to follow closely the current developments in bulgaria and to take the appropriate measures. the credibility of the european union and of bulgaria is at stake.
the union has a strategic interest in preventing climate change and combating global warming. investments in green technologies are expected to strengthen europe's competitiveness and create jobs. for european commitment to lead to global results, europe needs allies, all countries that want to join the convention. taiwan is the 20th largest emitter of carbon dioxide on earth, and that's why it has voluntarily committed to reduce its emissions and join the global goals of the un framework convention on climate change, even though it has not been able to join until now. taiwan, the world's largest led manufacturer, the second largest solar panel producer and one of the world's largest wind turbine generator makers, has committed to developing solar and wind power. i also ask the commission and the member states to work to ensure that taiwan, like all committed allies, can join the convention in order to achieve its climate change targets by 2020 and 2050, respectively.
one of the key tax challenges we face is the fight against tax fraud, including vat fraud, which can improve the efficiency of tax collection and play an important role in increasing tax revenues and thus consolidating public finances. since vat fraud is a highly sophisticated international crime, i am convinced that decisive, rapid action and cooperation between tax authorities is very important. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tax system is properly functioning, and that the tax authorities are able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the tax system is properly functioning. it is important, however, that none of our measures should be bureaucratic and directed against companies which have been honest taxpayers and have not exploited any possibility of vat fraud and tax evasion. i don't think we should go door to door, i don't think we should talk about tax harmonization. an effective, coordinated cooperation, a rapid reaction mechanism can be much more effective. i support this report and recommend it be introduced as soon as possible.
thank you very much, mr. chairman, for coming to us and for building trust in the banks. we can safely say that the eib is our bank. your bank plays a vital role in the recovery from the crisis, in the sme sector, in the modernisation of infrastructure, in the challenges of competitiveness or climate change. allow me to make a few comments on behalf of my group, but first i would like to thank mr audy for his cooperation in the committee on budgetary control. first, more attention should be paid to financing investments supported by structural loans. this is a very important factor in countries hit by economic crisis. however, we believe that this additional instrument should be treated separately from the other structural funds programmes, which will eventually be phased out and this is important to take into account. secondly, we thank the eib for its participation in the european banking coordination cooperation, the vienna initiative, and thus for its role in reducing the withdrawal of crossborder banking groups from the central and south-eastern european member states. that in itself is helpful to these countries. thirdly, i would like to emphasise the bank's role in implementing regional programmes, particularly in the baltic and danube regions. finally, let me take advantage of the fact that we consider activities outside the european union to be very important for both exports and imports. but in this context, on behalf of the socialist group, we would like to ask that you review your policy towards the weakly regulated, non-transparent, non-cooperative countries, which you adopted on 15 december 2010, in the light of the economic and political changes that have taken place in these countries and in the light of the practices of other banks. i think it's a very important message for these countries. after the president's visit to tunisia yesterday, i want to make this point very clear.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank the president for accepting our invitation. i consider it important to stress that the eib's objective is to create more economically sound projects that support social and social cohesion and job creation in line with the changed economic environment. i would like to stress that it is not enough to have viable projects, they must also have added value that will allow future competitiveness. i support putting the eib under prudential banking supervision, but its development needs to be watched, precisely because of its aaa rating. i think it is innovative to help member states develop their structural funds, which are currently in a state of stagnation, and to link the structural funds and the eib's lending capacity. the implementation of the project bond experiment for the period 14 to 20 is still an open question for me, all the more so because i do not see clearly the role, the participation and the management possibilities of the eib and the commission, which will have to be particularly taken into account in the future.
in writing. − i support the report on the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing. i agree with the report's recommendation that older members of society should also have a fundamental right to equal social participation. the ageing of the population is one of the major problems of our time and the creation of an age-friendly european union should therefore be given a high priority. i believe that the older generation should be given the opportunity to live an independent and active life, and that social isolation and discrimination should be eliminated. it is also necessary to encourage the desire of the ageing members of society to take an active part in social and cultural life. i would like to highlight in the report the importance of ensuring adequate financial means, the further development of care and treatment systems and the reform of the pension system, as i believe these frameworks are essential to ensure healthy, active ageing at local, regional, national and eu levels.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 has not yet been agreed, so the ceiling for the eu budget for 2014 is set in line with the ceiling for the 2013 budget, current prices and the annual technical adjustment. if the mff agreement is concluded, this will be irrelevant, but until then the guidelines set out in the law will be followed. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the measures. the main objective of ensuring the smooth functioning of the european institutions, including the european parliament, is to pursue structural and organisational reforms to increase efficiency through measures such as administrative budget cuts, identification of areas of overlapping budget lines and identification of ineffective measures.
in writing. − the process of globalisation as such and civil society require companies to behave more responsibly. proper communication and joint action between the company, its partners and wider society make it possible to strengthen an enterprise and, indirectly, its competitiveness. improving transparency, self- and co-regulation processes in addition to sectoral regulation will contribute to the achievement of the general objectives of csr. the spectacular reduction of the gap between citizens and businesses increases citizens' trust in businesses, which is necessary for a sustainable economic recovery. smes can play a key role in corporate social responsibility, as they are the backbone of the union's economy. through smes, csr can spread much faster and smes in the same sector have the opportunity to tackle similar social and environmental problems together.
in writing. − research shows that social enterprises may significantly contribute to the fulfilment of the europe 2020 objectives. therefore the twofold goal set forth in the commission’s communication, and also in this report, to recognise already existing social businesses and to pave the way for the creation of new and innovative forms needs to be pursued and more effectively communicated. the commission should create an online public database of fair businesses, quality schemes and labels to serve as a multilingual information and exchange platform for social entrepreneurs, business and social investors, and also to facilitate accessibility to csr information and improve transparency. a european regulatory framework for ethical investment funds and a quantified headline target on social businesses also need to be developed by the commission in cooperation with the member states, in order to support social businesses through eu policies, and to increase their number and consequently the jobs they create.
in writing. − the current economic crisis has been driven by a lack of transparency, accountability and corporate responsibility, and short-term thinking. we must learn from this. we do not want to live in a europe that is controlled only by the banks. companies need to be aware of the impact they have on society. i believe that if all companies exercise their social responsibility correctly, it can go a long way towards regaining the lost public trust. this is essential for sustainable economic growth and to mitigate the social impact of the crisis. it is also necessary to define specific measures within the framework of corporate social responsibility aimed at combating misleading and false information about the environmental and social impacts of products and services. we cannot allow the fraudulent practices that deceive consumers, authorities and investors to further erode trust in companies.
in writing. − the eu's csr policy should be implemented in a way that complements national legislation. however, i do not support universal solutions which do not take into account the specificities of the national markets and sectors in which companies operate and which may, where appropriate, lead to an increase in administrative burdens. appropriate flexibility should therefore be ensured in the implementation of the csr guidelines in order to adapt to the specific requirements of each member state and region, in particular as regards the capacities of smes. the responsibility of enterprises for their impact on society is to strive to produce the greatest possible shared value for their owners and other stakeholders, and for society at large. this makes it possible to identify and prevent possible negative effects arising in the course of the company's operations.
in writing. − the eu economy is going through its most difficult period since its creation, and effective taxation is now a particularly important element in the attempt to consolidate member states' public finances rapidly. vat fraud is a highly damaging practice that reduces member states' budget revenues by a significant amount and thus hinders their efforts to consolidate public finances. the various forms of vat fraud are changing relatively quickly and therefore the regulation aimed at eliminating such activity should be designed in the most effective way possible. i voted in favour of this report because, by introducing a rapid reaction mechanism, the proposed directive will significantly reduce the time needed to approve special measures to combat tax fraud and evasion and this amendment could increase the likelihood that such cases will be dealt with more effectively.
in writing. − the number of unemployed has increased by 2 million in the last 12 months, reaching an unemployment rate of 10.5% (which translates into 25 million people at european level). the employment situation improved in seven member states, but not in 20 european member states. even more disheartening, unemployment is hitting young people hardest, with the rate reaching a critical 22.8 percent, which means that one in five young people are unemployed. in some member states, the average household income has fallen significantly, leading to deeper poverty and social exclusion. the potential for job creation, whether in infrastructure, innovation, research and development, fisheries, agriculture, etc., should be examined at each level. 99% of european businesses, and therefore 85% of jobs, are smes. the commission estimates that this amounts to 23 million smes, thus constituting the backbone of the union economy. it is important to help smes, either by facilitating their credit application or by reducing their administrative burden. the two-pack or youth guarantee programme was also called upon to help solve the problems. it is also important to bear in mind that member states' responsibility is essential to overcome the prolonged economic crisis. the adoption of the agreement on the multiannual financial framework would allow for long-term investments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, which builds on the good foundations adopted in last year's annual growth report and sets a combined target of debt relief, fiscal consolidation and economic growth by 2013. it is important to note here that, in agreement with my colleagues in the people's party, i believe that europe needs economic growth, but one of the preconditions for this is compliance with fiscal rules, since without a gradual reduction in the budget deficit and public debt, the european economy cannot acquire new resources and thus cannot renew itself. i also support the recognition in the 2013 annual growth survey that a comprehensive shift towards sectors that promote sustainable growth and are rich in green jobs is needed to recover from the crisis and that measures should be taken in parallel with structural reforms to overcome the crisis in order to improve competitiveness in the long term and to ensure the sound functioning of the european economy and to restore confidence. finally, i fully agree that the country-specific recommendations will need to be further refined and improved in terms of quality, national specificity and compliance in the future.
in writing. − the report on the priority of ensuring a high level of employment and social and territorial cohesion in the europe 2020 european semester is also necessary to highlight the current weaknesses of the employment target (20% of people aged between 20 and 64 should have a job) of 2 million more unemployed in the last 12 months, reaching a rate of 10.5% (which translates to 25 million people at european level). even more disheartening, unemployment is hitting young people hardest, with the rate reaching a critical 22.8 percent, which means that one in five young people are unemployed. in order to avoid the loss of this generation, member states should take immediate action. in some member states, the average household income has fallen significantly, leading to deeper poverty and social exclusion. it is important that member states follow the provisions of the national reform programme and achieve the differentiated growth-friendly fiscal consolidation in the 2013 annual growth plan, and it is necessary to support the financing of smes, which provide 85% of european jobs and thus form the backbone of the union economy. the solution is to facilitate the mobility of workers, given that there are vacancies in some regions of the eu. at the same time, investment in the green economy, social and health security and welfare, and the opportunities for further education should be taken into account.
in writing. − the report is closely linked to the annual growth report prepared in the economic and monetary committee and is to be strongly supported as it deals with its employment and social policy aspects. the report rightly draws attention to the regrettable fact that member states have failed to fully deliver on the commitments made in last year's growth report, and thus fall far short of the targets set in the areas of job creation, job quality, and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the fact that more than one in five young people are unemployed (22.8%) across the union and that in some member states the youth unemployment rate exceeds 50%, is another reason why i agree with most of the main messages in the report that member states should do even more to develop and implement comprehensive initiatives for the employment, education and skills of young people. it is also essential, as the adopted report indicates, that member states adopt measures to promote job creation, such as the transformation of taxes on work to encourage employment, and to promote and support genuine and voluntary self-employment and entrepreneurship, improve the framework conditions for entrepreneurial activities and facilitate access to finance for smes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the schwab report, as the adopted document now also calls for the social inclusion of people with disabilities in the internal market, which i consider, together with my colleague adam kósa, to be a very important achievement. it is good to see that a large number of meps supported stronger action in the areas of consumer protection and product and service development. it was also noted that the increase in employment and the emergence of new consumers is unthinkable without people with disabilities.
in writing. − in this time of crisis, the single market is playing a key role in bringing europe out of its economic stagnation. timely transposition of legislation is essential to achieve the policy objectives set out in the directives. it is welcome that the number of infringement procedures relating to the application of union law is decreasing, most likely due to the introduction of mechanisms to address the problem of infringements of union law at an earlier stage of the procedure. internal market governance, based on the recommendations of the schwab report, can be a new engine of economic growth, but i believe that this initiative will only be effective if all countries apply the rules correctly. while much remains to be done to achieve the common objectives, progress in the member states' transposition of eu law is welcome.
in writing. − the european investment bank (eib) is becoming an increasingly important player in the future of the eu in achieving the european union's objectives of boosting economic growth, strengthening its capacity for innovation and industry, investing in infrastructure, and strengthening employment, social, welfare and environmental policies. the eib is strongly committed to increasing its capital to maintain its aaa rating and to new financial instruments to leverage its limited eu funds, but the eu project bond initiative is also significant. the transparency, renewability and flexibility of financial instruments are of fundamental importance. i welcome the part of the report that says that in 2011, 18% of eib loans went to smes. at the same time, it is important to emphasise the launch of the new investment platform, which will provide access to financial resources for social enterprises, as well as the establishment of accountability tools. the eib's framework for loans for structural programmes contributes significantly to the co-financing from national budgets of the union's structural funds.
in writing. − the annual report of the european investment bank should be supported, as its mission in the post-crisis period should be to put in place more solid and effective projects promoting social cohesion and job creation, and to embrace smes more widely and involve them in major projects. however, it is regrettable that the bank's loan book has fallen by some eur 10 billion compared to 2010, which makes it even more urgent to adopt a council decision last june that would finally allow the bank to raise its capital by eur 10 billion, thus significantly increasing the credit capacity of the member states by some eur 60 billion. the proposal to place the eib under prudential supervision is particularly welcome, as it is essential that its lending operations continue to be carried out in a transparent and european-controlled manner, even in the context of the emerging banking union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, these three reports raise common concerns. in 2013, women’s rights need more than ever to be fought for, as gender equality is far from being achieved. the crisis and the austerity measures have hit women hard and have widened the gender pay gap, when we have been calling for gender input in all social and economic policies for years now. those rising inequalities, and the deeply rooted gender stereotypes that reinforce them, need to be swiftly addressed. we must not forget the situation of women in the middle east, who have been instrumental in the arab spring only to see their most fundamental rights being further questioned and endangered, as the commissioner mentioned. the european union, by promoting dialogue, must stand very firmly when addressing those issues. clear criteria must be included in all dialogues and cooperation policies in order to ensure the safeguarding of women’s rights. finally, i would like to express my disappointment following the decision of some european countries to help block the inclusion of sexual and reproductive rights in the conclusions of the 57th session of the un commission on the status of women. this is a major setback regarding women’s rights to choose and access proper healthcare. (applause)
first of all, i'd like to congratulate the reporters. this is an important topic not only on international women's day but also in other contexts, as the crisis has affected women in a very serious way, both directly and indirectly. but sometimes i feel like we talk more about theory than practical solutions. it would be good to see more and more examples of good practice in the member states. it is important that governments give priority to the labour market situation of women, for example, in their policies. after 2010, the hungarian government changed its strategy and placed a high priority on the labour market situation of women under 25 and over 55. however, it is also important to recognise that this problem is multifaceted and requires action at eu level. not just in words, but in deeds. i know that the europe 2020 strategy and even the treaties are all about equality. but in theory, i see it much less in practice. i believe that the commission must come forward very quickly with a measure that, for example, highlights the gender pay gap.
in writing. – international women’s day provides us with an opportunity to review our achievements in promoting gender equality. this day was established in a world where women could not vote, their life strategies were extremely limited and the idea of going to university or engaging themselves in politics was regarded as a scandal. nonetheless, most of us take civil rights for granted and we are now expected to educate ourselves and to make a career. but this societal progress is too unevenly distributed and for millions of european girls it is as much of an unattainable dream as it was a few generations ago. the recession hit women with an unprecedented level of social exclusion and women born into marginalised communities experience disadvantages on an unbearably high number of grounds. thus, deep poverty in europe has the face of a roma woman. member states should therefore mainstream gender equality into national roma integration programmes and place a special focus on roma women in gender equality strategies. in these times when the very essence of the eu is being put to the test, it is even more important to lift those obstacles that vulnerable and marginalised communities encounter when invoking their rights as eu citizens.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 march 2013 at 11.30. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. to keep energy prices under control, the unimpeded flow of energy must be ensured. while energy infrastructure is developed in western europe, there is still a lack of physical connectivity between central and eastern european countries, which means that the single market is not functioning. this is why our region's energy markets are characterised by unilateral energy dependence and high energy prices. the european commission intends to encourage the development of the missing networks in the future. to this end, it declares the investment of major importance to be of public interest, which confers important advantages on the investors. the timeframe for approving public investments is drastically reduced to three and a half years. this is a major improvement over the previous practice, which often took ten years to obtain permits. the advantage of preferential status is also that it allows for cheaper financing. since the public-sector developments also met the european commission's strict evaluation criteria, they also represent a lower risk for the creditors than an average investment. investments that are important for security of supply but not economically viable may be supported by direct union financial resources. this could also lead to strategic investments to ensure uninterrupted energy supply in a crisis situation. i hope that today's package of measures will finally break the deadlock and rebuild the missing infrastructure. as investment in central and eastern europe has a good chance of qualifying for preferential status, i see a chance for the first time in 60 years to reduce the unilateral energy dependence of our region.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in writing. on the second anniversary of the fukushima nuclear disaster, calls for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants are again being heard. in this context, it is necessary to emphasise again and again certain ambitions of the energy roadmap 2050, which, although an extremely important document and an excellent summary of the current situation, has little basis in reality for some of its objectives. the transition to 100% renewable energy by 2050 is in principle a worthwhile endeavour, but in practice some member states, such as hungary, are unable to achieve this due to their geographical location, let alone financial constraints. as a consequence, if nuclear energy is phased out by 2050, hungary, along with several other member states, will not be able to meet its energy needs on its own. despite the disaster that occurred two years ago, we must remain objective about nuclear energy and support the search for a more controlled and safer system rather than a mindless dismantling. the industry in the developed world is beset by ongoing financial scandals, a trend that the hungarian government may follow by completely obscuring the details of the current paks nuclear power plant expansion from the government, thus making the whole process a high risk of corruption. in summary, the european energy roadmap 2050 must be designed in the spirit of having a number of member states that rely on nuclear energy.
in writing. reducing europe's energy dependence, reducing co2 emissions and ensuring the security of energy supply are all objectives to be achieved. in addition, widespread access to cheap, yet environmentally friendly and easily manageable energy is particularly important for the population. and renewable if you can. these requirements seem to contradict each other, but if we are willing to think outside the box and learn from the more intelligent, truly progressive parts of the world, such as the brics countries, then we have a solution. this is a breeder reactor, a fourth-generation nuclear power plant, which produces additional fissile material from the normal, large quantities of the cheaply available uranium-238 isotope. it therefore meets all the criteria at once. but thorium is a cheap and abundant fissile material. only these two technologies, with the knowledge and the inventory we have today, can guarantee the entire energy supply of the earth with cheap electricity for the next 150 to 200 years. with such a prospect, is it worth it to install huge propellers on the sea, on our fallow fields, making nature ugly? do you want my uncertain, cyclical, and expensive electricity? it makes as much sense as using a silver coffee spoon to carry water from the kitchen to the garden to water the vegetables instead of using the garden tap and the sprinkler. and what my electricity won't do is clean burning natural gas. if we don't waste the gas to generate electricity, it's enough for 150 to 200 years. all other solutions are only appropriate in very extreme, hard-to-reach places. or if it is competitive on a market basis with the energy production methods proposed above. taxpayers' money is not to be wasted on useless things!
in writing. we socialists are primarily in favour of energy-saving solutions, including the insulation of family homes and the energy upgrading of apartment buildings. investing in energy efficiency can reduce household recession bills in the long run. the hungarian government's 10% reduction in the national income tax is a pittance, but it deserves support because it temporarily helps a section of the citizens: those who still have the means to pay their national income tax. it is questionable whether it will bring any relief to those most in need. instead, we need investments that keep our energy bills down, that guarantee the security of our energy supply. these include insulation of panel houses and other buildings and the development of renewable energy sources. a step is being taken across europe to introduce a general public service minimum. this would also be necessary in hungary, because this would ensure the necessary amount of electricity and gas to the citizens. this would avoid the clock being switched off for low-income consumers. it is particularly important that the european parliament pays particular attention to the social impact of energy prices and the problems of vulnerable households. more than 260 000 energy-efficient renovations of panel housing have been carried out in hungary under the panel programme launched by socialist governments. the complex energy renovation was financed by eu recovery funds, state aid and the residents' own contributions. it is unclear why the hungarian government has terminated the previously successful panel program. it has deprived hundreds of thousands of families of saving as much as 45 to 60 percent of their monthly rental bill by renovating their homes. this is the long-term solution!
the comprehensive risk and safety assessment of nuclear power plants in the european union has been successfully completed. the resilience tests were primarily aimed at assessing the reliability and preparedness of nuclear power plants. we know that the operational safety of power plants is still controlled by multi-level inspections. this control is carried out primarily by the national authorities of the member states and is carried out with the utmost thoroughness. in hungary, the national atomic energy office maintains an office in the paksi nuclear power plant site, where it constantly monitors the operation of the units, and even in the office's headquarters, they can see online all the data they need to see about the operation of the reactors and the plant. in addition, euratom and the international atomic energy agency are carrying out audits and coordinating their work. the stress test identified these mechanisms and the results confirmed that national authorities are doing an excellent job under the current system. it was a great pleasure for me that hungary, the hungarian power plant, was among the safest plants. i welcome the european council's proposal to adopt the nuclear safety directive this year, rather than wait until 2014. however, i would be wary of creating a new european level of supervision, because experience has shown that national authorities work well.
the lulucf sector, which is the land use, land use change and forestry sector, is not currently included in the greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments. the commission's assessment is that the rules allowing voluntary commitments in the sub-areas of this sector have led to a lack of uniformity in the member states' commitments. i therefore welcome the fact that other types of elements have been fixed in the new rules, such as the fixing of the methodology for clearing or the empowerment of the commission to update the methodology for clearing and the related definitions. however, it should be noted that the abolition of the accounting rules for afforestation in lieu of reforestation may be unfavourable for some member states, including hungary. one hope is that accounting rules may still apply, in accordance with the international guidelines developed for the sector in the spirit of the regulation. i therefore think that these member states will be able to make use of this possibility for a while.
in writing. the greenhouse effect, described by fourier in the 19th century, is causing our planet to warm slowly and, if we do not act to stop it, could have unforeseeable consequences for all life on earth in the long run. global warming caused by human activities over the past decades may lead to a series of climate and climate changes that, among other things, could reduce agriculture and, consequently, the gross national product of eu member states, due to extreme natural conditions. the kyoto convention declared that emissions of the gases responsible for the phenomenon (mainly co2) must be gradually reduced by 2020, and the eu has already taken a number of measures to this end. the european union is also at the forefront of the world in introducing strict rules to curb global warming. european societies rightly expect eu leaders to take decisive action on environmental protection, even outside the eu. the eu has a moral obligation to use all diplomatic means to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
supporting the mobility of eu citizens and facilitating the mutual recognition of qualifications is also one of the most important means of strengthening the single market and promoting economic growth. i'd like to bring to your attention a very serious problem. as you know, one of the most mobile professions in the union is that of a doctor. each year thousands of doctors settle and practise in other member states. this migration has thus become a phenomenon affecting several member states and has simply put basic healthcare at risk, even though the charter of fundamental rights clearly states the right to social security and healthcare. unfortunately, the commission has not taken any action to detect these trends. it would be important to intervene quickly in order to know the data and to know whether there might be a tension in the care of patients in some member states, precisely because of migration. i respectfully ask the commission to take appropriate action as soon as possible.
mr president, in 2010 the mass repatriations of roma immigrants from france caused a huge political outcry against the right-wing government. now, today, sarkozy’s government has gone and so have the voices of this opposition, although the repatriations and forced evictions continue in an even greater proportion. it was only a week ago that the city of bordeaux forcibly evicted hundreds of roma. according to a report by amnesty international, thousands of destitute roma end up in a similar situation. two consecutive governments with different political affiliations have reacted with almost identical responses to the same situation, which clearly shows that this is not an issue to be interpreted within party politics and it is really high time to stop any side of the political spectrum from using the plight of the roma as a weapon against their counterparts. on the contrary, as we approach 9 april – international roma day – it is high time that we get real answers, through the european strategy on the roma, of whom there are ten million and who are among the 40 million poorest european citizens.
my dear officer! the commission has produced excellent material, the trialogue was quick and efficient, and the rapporteurs have made excellent suggestions to complement the material, so allow me to congratulate everyone involved in this process. this is a very broad problem, as 20% of european consumers encounter some kind of problem when shopping online. the new procedure is quick and simple, avoiding the costly, expensive and difficult legal route, which is why we hope that many will use it. people who have been kept away from this. we're talking about an innovative online platform that's accessible to the masses of consumers. it's fast, because it cuts the length of the procedure from 450 days to 90 days. it's great because in all the member states - and in my country, hungary - everyone can use it in their own language, which makes it easier to access. and it's very broad, because it covers all areas except education and health. so i congratulate you, and i think we're going to have a very successful vote.
in writing. today, consumer spending accounts for more than half of the eu's gdp. more effective consumer protection increases consumer confidence in products offered on the market, which in turn boosts competition and economic growth. the recently adopted new comprehensive eu strategy aims to improve consumer protection and information and is also intended to help consumers and businesses to have access to redress in the event of a problem. i would like to emphasize that in my country, hungary, alternative dispute resolution can already be used to handle and resolve conflicts on a wide range of legal issues. some of these are already regulated by law: business and economic mediation in the area of civil law, family mediation in the area of family law and restorative justice, which is of great interest from the point of view of criminal law. the solutions outlined in mrs thun's report will, in my view, complement the assistance that eu citizens can already avail themselves of in resolving their disputes with traders in other member states. this includes, for example, the european small claims procedure, which makes it possible to settle problem cases more quickly and at lower cost. i think this is a very important step forward and we can even say that the proposal on online dispute resolution is another milestone in terms of consumer protection in the eu.
in writing. as you know, the single internal market is one of the most fundamental achievements of the european union and is constantly under review. in this context, my position is clear: genuine social inclusion and non-discrimination of people with disabilities is inconceivable without the accessibility of products and services and the accessibility of information about them and in particular about consumers, in line with the ep's report on social inclusion and mobility of people with disabilities adopted in 2011. this has been mentioned several times in the empl committee, but i reiterate that stronger action is also needed in the areas of consumer protection and product and service development, including in the area of consumer disputes, ensuring equal access to dispute settlement for people with disabilities (especially the visually impaired). the internal market is for people, not the other way around.
on behalf of the s&d group. a significant proportion of the roma population is not suited to cohabitation. this part of gypsy is an animal and behaves like an animal. this is not written by a representative of a radical organization, but by a member of a party in hungary that calls itself a center-right party. 'we are ready to open the gas chambers' said the parliamentary candidate of the greek golden dawn party, showing how they would deal with the problem of illegal immigration. roma, jews, muslims, gays, blacks, people with disabilities are the most common victims of hate crimes. but extremist ideas threaten all of us. the rhetoric of incitement and exclusion is now part of the public discourse. the crisis has led to a rise in populism and extremism. we don't have reliable data on how many victims of verbal and physical abuse there are. people who are humiliated, abused, don't report hate crimes to the authorities. we need data, statistics on hate crimes so that we can, with the right legislation and strategy, prevent them, make them punishable, so that we can provide adequate protection to the victims. it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure that the police and the judiciary consistently identify and punish the perpetrators of these crimes. the old and urgently replaceable debt is the birth of the horizontal anti-discrimination directive in the council.
i am a great admirer of the romanian people and romanian culture. i speak romanian as a sign of this admiration. the hungarian population living in romania, numbering over one and a half million, is as indigenous as the romanians from the linguistic, ethnographic or customs and traditions point of view, being in a unique historical, geographical and ethnic unit for more than a thousand years. the hungarian autonomous region existed until 1968. ceausescu divided it into three counties, but the hungarian majority remained until today. after 1990, the practice of subsidiarity restored the sikhs to self-confidence and creative strength. some want to destroy this organic ethnic unity by creating new regions, redistributing the sequence into four other administrative regions, with an absolute romanian majority population, which would push the hungarians into an insignificant minority. i ask your help to ensure that this plan is not carried out, thereby avoiding inter-ethnic and inter-state tension and much unnecessary pain.
mr president, if you look at the figures of the fundamental rights agency on racial discrimination it is extremely disappointing, especially when it comes to european roma citizens, who experience steadily growing discrimination throughout the eu, besides their persistent joblessness, segregated education, unhealthy living conditions, terrible healthcare situation, political under-representation and geographical isolation. the long drawn-out economic crisis and growing existential insecurity is further feeding into anti-roma sentiments. europe has a plan for it, and implementing the european framework for national roma strategies could be the best way of fighting these tendencies. it focuses on 40 million of the poorest european citizens, only 10 million of whom are of roma origin. therefore, it is vital that governments take an unwavering standpoint in support of human rights and european values, and also that they fulfil their constitutional obligation to defend their citizens during the culmination of social strengths and respond to any politically-driven provocation in a vigorous and lawful manner. the race directive is also an extremely important tool in our hands and we believe, as václav havel once said, that the roma are the litmus test of european democracy and civil society and it is our task, in our best capacities, to see it pass this test.
fear and intimidation have no place in 21st century europe. any action, word or deed that offends or endangers others is unacceptable. in hungary today, these phenomena are clearly condemned by all responsible politicians, led by the prime minister, not only in words but also in deeds, when they want to fight hate speech, incitement against the community with the tools of criminal law as well as the tools of civil law. i am also sorry that the detailed draft resolution we are adopting here does not specifically mention intolerance, incitement to hatred and intimidation against indigenous national minorities. although it's a very real phenomenon here in the union territory. for example, in romania, when the use of their mother tongue, their national identity, the organization of literary evenings, intimidate the members of the indigenous hungarian minority. or they're just declared second-class citizens by the heads of government, like in slovakia. this should not be part of the european tolerance agenda either.
mr president, we have to acknowledge that racism and xenophobia do not come from nowhere. europe faces a rise of extremist parties and hateful speeches fuelled by the economic crisis and social distress. simultaneously, we have witnessed a nationalist drift among traditional parties – even when in government – which only further legitimises such extremist discourses. this is a very dangerous drift, and one which we cannot tolerate. every time a representative – or any politician for that matter – of one of the 27 member states points out a country, an ethnicity, a minority, a religion or a sexual orientation as a scapegoat, it is the eu as a whole that suffers from it. every time a citizen or a part of the population is attacked for being diffferent or not patriotic enough, it is our common bounds and values that emerge weaker. we adopted a charter on fundamental rights, and we ought to make sure it is respected in all member states. moreover, we need to address the roots of intolerance and racism. this means more social justice and more democracy.
mr president i welcome and support the motion tabled by renate weber and her colleagues. at the same time, i propose that, in addition to the fight against xenophobia, we also step up the fight against discrimination against traditional ethnic minorities. in romania and several other surrounding countries, anti-hungarian sentiment has reached such proportions that it is almost comparable to anti-semitism and anti-gypsyism. on march 10th, we held a demonstration of tens of thousands of people in marosvásárhely, famous for the anti-hungarian pogrom of the 90s, in szeklerland and transylvania. we are convinced that the democratic right of our hungarian community in romania is the community's self-determination as an effective institutional protection against ethnic discrimination and minority oppression. i ask parliament to protect national minorities whose existence is threatened, not only in third countries but also within the union.
my fellow citizens! in today's debate, we have not talked about an area of prejudice that is spreading in europe: anti-poverty, action against the poor. we see an example of this unfortunately in the hungarian constitutional amendment yesterday, when they try to criminalize the homeless as poor people at the level of the constitution. i agree with everyone that we must take action at eu level, at community level, against racism, against all forms of hate speech. and i ask mrs. reding to do what she has proposed before, which is to create a judicial audit monitoring mechanism, a judicial semester to examine the state of european democracies. what european governments are doing to curb hate speech is also very important in this regard. and as a final note, anyone who is only half-hearted about the exclusion... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i heard the intervention from the socialist and liberal colleagues concerning hungary. i would take it seriously, because in the european union we should take each other seriously, unless we see that our socialist and liberal colleagues are blind when there are breaches of human rights in countries where there are liberal and socialist governments. there is a very clear double standard here in this house. (applause) we never heard any intervention from mr verhofstadt when the socialist government of romania blocked the constitutional court from publishing its decision. there are several other instances where, in this house, the left side of the house is applying double standards. clearly the fourth amendment of the constitution of hungary is an issue for hungary, because article 4 of the european treaty makes it clear that the domestic constitutional structures of a country are part of its sovereignty, which no one can violate. this does not mean, dear colleagues, that you do not have to apply the basic constitutional principles of the european common heritage. the hungarian government has already tabled the fourth amendment of the hungarian constitution at the venice commission for review, but there was no intervention with so much as a word about a problem with this constitutional amendment. what is the specific point that violates rights so much? (interruption from the floor) mr verhostadt’s answer is that it breaches everything. but can he name specifically where the violation of human rights or rule of law is in this area? can he demonstrate it? hungary is part of the european club; we are abiding by the rules. i would like to make it very clear that hungary is abiding by the basic principles of human rights and rule of law, and there is no point in having double standard, biased procedures against any country in this union, otherwise you will be getting into a union which is growing apart and not together. (applause)
in writing. − having participated in the debate on the report and voted for it in the committee on energy, i agree with its reasoning that a sustainable, secure, uninterrupted and affordable energy supply is one of the major challenges that unites europeans, from civil society to decision-makers, industry and environmentalists. although the commission has set ambitious energy policy objectives on competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and decarbonisation, the internal energy market is characterised by insufficient integration, a high degree of energy isolation in certain geographical areas, inadequate access to diversified energy sources that contribute to energy security, and a lack of tangible benefits for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability. this general situation and the considerable interdependence of the member states require a european approach. faster, more decisive and more coordinated action is needed.
in writing. − complaints by eu citizens provide important information on possible breaches of community law. they also highlight certain weaknesses in the eu's public administration system. as is well known, over the years the committee on petitions has been approached on a number of occasions by member states allegedly approving the authorisation and implementation of certain projects without the required impact assessment. as part of the eu review of public access to documents, i have already paid particular attention, as an opinion-maker, to the links between transparency and good administration. the right to good administration has become mandatory in the union under the treaty of lisbon. efforts to increase the transparency of the work of the union institutions and to develop good administration techniques shall be supported. the ombudsman's special report places a strong emphasis on respect for the fundamental rights of eu citizens and encourages reasoned legislation. the report's intended objectives - such as strengthening transparency - are welcome, as trust in public institutions is one of the most important indicators of democracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, as the trilogues reached a compromise acceptable from the point of view of hungarian interests. however, i still consider it unnecessary to make any specific reference to the so-called rio markers in the text. the problem is that the use of these indicators can be misleading. for example, one eu research project based on the rio benchmarks showed that hungary's exposure to climate change is not too high and therefore there is no real need for further measures. the reality, however, is that several regions in my country are increasingly vulnerable to climate change and that significant structural transformation is needed to overcome the disadvantages. as the indicator thus has a significant financial dimension, it is important to continue to address this issue.
in writing. − this legislation is a milestone in the history of european consumer protection. the range of those affected by the legislation is extremely wide, with an average of 20% of consumers in the union encountering a problem when shopping online. the new system is simple and inexpensive, as consumers have a means of redress that avoids expensive and cumbersome court proceedings. the interactive website now available will be easily accessible to the masses of shoppers with just a few clicks, and in their own language. the platform shall enable the customer with a complaint and the trader concerned to settle their dispute online through a jointly selected alternative dispute resolution body. the new system is fast, as the procedural time limit is reduced from 450 days to 90 days, as was the case in the past with the european practice. i voted in favour of the adoption of the draft law in accordance with the above.
in writing. − i welcome the european online dispute resolution platform (ovr-platform) and the directive on the alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes (avr directive), which would create an interactive website for the out-of-court settlement of contractual disputes arising in connection with the crossborder online sale of goods or services between a trader established in one member state and a consumer with a permanent residence in another member state. the interactive website would be available in all the eu's official languages, free of charge. for the purpose of out-of-court settlement, all consumer and trader complaints (e.g. non-payment or refusal to take delivery of goods) would be referred to an alternative dispute resolution body (e.g. arbitrator, conciliator, ombudsman or appeal board). the odr platform identifies the subject matter of the dispute and provides the parties with the relevant adr entities covered by the avr directive and provides the parties with the basic information (tariffs, languages, binding or non-binding legal effect of the outcome of the procedure, etc.). the parties shall then choose by agreement an adr entity that will attempt to resolve the dispute within 30 days, thus conducting the dispute resolution procedure via the internet, online. the interactive interface will be supported by a network of online dispute resolution experts.
in writing. − crossborder shopping gives consumers the opportunity to make the best possible deal in the eu's internal market. online shopping makes this even easier. however, sometimes problems may arise, such as problems with the products purchased or with transport. in order to avoid complicated, costly and time-consuming legal procedures, the european parliament is now making it easier for eu consumers to exercise their right to a fair trial. i believe it is very important that european consumers feel safe when they buy goods or services in the single market and do not face any additional risks. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that consumers who want to benefit from the opportunities offered by the single market should be able to rely on a number of effective and efficient means of redress.
in writing. − the creation of a european online dispute resolution (odr) platform would facilitate the effective resolution of out-of-court disputes. the odr platform would complement other adr entities and reduce the time taken to deal with complaints. however, i am convinced that the proposed system can only achieve these objectives if it is comprehensive, covers both cross-border and domestic transactions, while at the same time being simple, effective and preserves the right to a fair trial, i.e. does not deprive consumers of their right to seek legal redress.
in writing. − i welcome the alternative dispute resolution (adr) directive, which is an integral part of the european online dispute resolution (odr) platform, which would create an interactive website for the out-of-court settlement of contractual disputes arising in connection with the crossborder online sale of goods or services between a trader established in one member state and a consumer with a permanent residence in another member state. this method would be a simple, fast, efficient and low-cost dispute settlement method. it is estimated that consumers currently lose 0.4% of european gdp to such problems. in 2010, less than 5% of consumers reported to an avr organisation and only 9% of businesses reported ever using an avr. online commerce is an important pillar of eu economic activity, but most consumers and traders are afraid to make purchases online for fear of losing their legal recourse in the event of a dispute. the three main objectives of the directive are to cover the whole eu territory and to provide adequate information about the avr organisation to the target audience, and to ensure that the service itself is of a quality that meets the principles set out in the commission's recommendations.
in writing. − in disputes between businesses, banks, insurers and consumers, consumers do not necessarily have to go to court, but have the possibility to request the intervention of consumer protection centres, national bodies. this procedure is much faster than a court case and the parties are under a very strict obligation to cooperate. i am convinced that the new solutions outlined in mr grech's report will complement the help that eu citizens can already avail themselves of in resolving their disputes with traders in other member states. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, as i believe that the procedure of the national bodies can produce results very quickly, since the ep report voted on today states that the procedure must be completed within 90 days of the opening of the consumer protection centres.
in writing. − the proposal on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes aims to create a simple, fast and low-cost dispute resolution mechanism aimed at the highest level of consumer protection in the union. our aim is to promote the proper functioning and completion of the internal market by achieving a high level of consumer protection, which is essential for economic growth and job creation. despite a number of improvements in consumer protection since the creation of the single market, there are still shortcomings that make life difficult for citizens, in particular consumers and smes. action at european level is needed to improve consumer redress and voluntary alternative dispute resolution schemes should be made available in all economic sectors.
in writing. - as we know, water is the basis of life. when we talk about human health and environmental policy, it is essential that all eu citizens have access to safe drinking water. in view of this, we must do everything in our power to ensure that the water that flows in our homes, schools and offices is of the highest quality. that's why i voted for the report. we should be proactive rather than reactive, and the eu should act as a precautionary and preventive force in this matter. a well-designed and comprehensive legislation, with an effective control mechanism, including for the most vulnerable citizens, a differentiated treatment of natural radioactivity and man-made pollution and transparent public information, would reduce possible future costs as much as possible. these costs, which would be reflected in health care or the cost of purifying drinking water, should be paid by those who cause radioactive pollution.
in writing. − access to safe drinking water is a priority in eu health and environmental policies. the current drinking water directive regulates pollutants, but the requirements for the control of tritium and the total indicative dose have not yet been implemented, despite the fact that member states were supposed to comply with the drinking water directive by the end of 2003. the commission intends to incorporate the requirements into new legislation with the current directive. the rapporteur considers three areas to be important: the need to treat radionuclides in the same way as other carcinogenic pollutants; the proposal should incorporate the distinction made by the international commission on radiation protection (icrp/cipr) between natural and artificial sources of radioactivity and the different exposure groups, in particular age groups; and the need to respect the polluter pays principle in respect of the sampling and monitoring costs of artificial contamination. i support the report.
in writing. − an instrument to address the serious economic and social situation of individual member states and thus the problems of other eu member states, complementary to the six pack, which fits into the current sovereign debt crisis and which, together with the two pack and the six pack, can ensure financial stability and economic growth. i welcome the report, as a rapid, effective and early response to further problems that may arise can effectively help to recover from the economic crisis as quickly as possible.
in writing. - i am the rapporteur for the opinion on the report in the committee on employment and social affairs. i welcome the initiative to coordinate the control of budgetary policies, in particular the provisions on the establishment of a common budgetary framework, the rules-based budgetary framework and the enhanced surveillance of member states under the excessive deficit procedure. eu fiscal policy should create synergies with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and its implementation, as the ultimate goal is to bring the eu out of the crisis and into economic prosperity characterised by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
in writing. − i welcome the initiative to coordinate the control of budgetary policies, in particular the provisions on the establishment of a common budgetary agenda, the rules-based budgetary framework and the increased surveillance of member states under the excessive deficit procedure. i voted in favour of the report as the budgetary proposals and policy guidelines set out in the report are fully in line with the europe 2020 strategy and can help the eu recover from the crisis and set the union's economy on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. − the social entrepreneurship sector is growing in importance in europe, representing 10% of all european enterprises and employing over 11 million people. although such enterprises often receive public support, private investment remains essential for their growth. however, there are few social investment funds for this purpose and the existing ones are not large enough. investing in such funds from several countries is unnecessarily complex and expensive. i voted in favour of the report by mrs auconie, because it sets out the legal framework under which different types of investment funds can be granted the status of european social entrepreneurship funds and the corresponding passport. i am convinced that the new measures proposed will facilitate the creation of social enterprises both in hungary and in the rest of the union and ensure that they have access to the financial support they need to grow.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate my colleague for her report on this very important issue. social enterprises employ more than 11 million people in the eu and account for more than 6 % of total employment. they contribute greatly to the goal of developing a highly competitive social market economy by placing social impact before profit, or reinvesting most of the profit generated in fulfilling societal objectives. however, researchers confirm that there is still a huge potential for increasing both the number and the scope of social enterprises by creating a more favourable environment for their operation and establishment by enhancing the accessibility of funding, tailoring regulatory conditions to their needs and providing wider recognition. in this respect the commission’s proposals on introducing an investment priority for social enterprises in the erdf and esf regulations and on simplifying their access to state aid are to be supported. the report’s initiative to develop a european social label and a european award for social entrepreneurship is also to be highly welcomed.
in writing. - we reject it, as we did last september, because it's a false, misleading report. it's about, apparently, there are investors who don't want to make a profit, but they want to serve social, social purposes. the reality is that they want to access the money of the social sphere, see for example the privatization of domestic craft industries. these goals are far removed from the values we profess.
in writing. − the social aspects of the global economic crisis since 2008 are significantly underestimated, and all the financial and economic pillars of the crisis are not as pronounced. when the crisis first broke out, more men lost their jobs than women, which is mainly due to the fact that industry was hit first, where more men than women were employed. then there is the service industry, where women are more represented than men. the effects of the crisis are slower and more drastic for women than for men. however, men will also enter employment more quickly than women. women are often forced to settle for jobs below their qualifications and are often forced to take up fixed-term or part-time jobs.
in writing. − within the european union, gender equality is a fundamental right, enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. however, women are being hit harder and more in many ways than ever before; much harder and longer term than men. joint action is therefore essential, as the current austerity measures in the member states are only reinforcing these processes. i believe that the eu has also underestimated the impact of the crisis on women, and although in the first years of the crisis men were the main ones who felt the direct negative effects, now the male sectors are slowly recovering, but the restrictions on women indirectly and more strongly affected areas are only now really coming into play. in my view, the economic model championed by the europe 2020 strategy, based on a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion, can only succeed if both economic and human resources stability is guaranteed. as the rapporteur's proposals also serve this objective of stability, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − while gender equality is a fundamental human right, article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu also states that the union shall aim to eliminate inequalities and promote equality between men and women. the overrepresentation of women in parttime work and the 16.4% pay gap between women and men (measured in 2010) determine the severity of gender stereotypes, from women's versus men's jobs to their role in the media and advertising. the elimination of gender stereotypes should be given increased attention.
in writing. − gender equality is a fundamental right, a common value of the member states of the european union, and an indispensable condition for achieving the union's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. we can say that we have made considerable progress in achieving gender equality so far, with the important role played by legislation on equal treatment, the principle of universal implementation of gender equality, special measures to empower women, action programmes, social dialogue and dialogue with civil society. however, mrs. lionard says that we must move on, and i agree with her. i voted in favour of this report, which shows that inequalities are still present and may even worsen as increasing global economic competition requires greater flexibility and stronger policies. to meet these challenges, the union must take greater steps towards gender equality and promote the principle of gender mainstreaming in all policy areas.
in writing. − environmental legislation is a very important part of eu law and it is therefore essential to have a clear, consistent and non-overlapping set of rules that allows member states to implement it effectively and quickly. inadequate implementation of eu environmental legislation can be caused by a number of different reasons, which vary from one member state to another. this is why i consider the report to be important, because it takes account in detail of the difficulties encountered by member states in implementing eu environmental rules and offers solutions to these problems. it is worthwhile to fill in the gaps, as the correct implementation of the legislation at eu level could create tens of thousands of jobs and lead to savings of tens of billions of euros. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
the rapporteur is the committee on budgetary control. - madam president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! agricultural subsidies will continue to represent the largest part of the community budget in the 2014-2020 budget period. regulation of this policy area is therefore of particular importance. i am convinced that in the new budgetary period the european agricultural and rural development fund must guarantee that the largest possible share of payments reaches the most disadvantaged regions and helps those who live there. tobacco farming is a typical activity in such disadvantaged areas. in hungary, the most disadvantaged area, the low-skilled roma women are the ones who are involved in tobacco production. it is therefore particularly important that rural development funds be used to maintain these jobs. we therefore consider it essential that rural development funds continue to be used to support employment of tobacco growers.
my dear officer cioloş! it serves the common agricultural market as a whole, in order to reduce the differences between producers in the old and new member states. not as much as we'd like, though. it is an important result that, on my proposal, the 10 member states applying the saps - including hungary - can count previous national aid, supplementary aid, against the new payment entitlements. thank you for that, capoulas santos. it is very important that young farmers can receive a uniform 100 hectares of aid on the ep's proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's maritime sector. as regards the budget, on the one hand, the new member states will receive more money between 2014 and 2020 as the catch-up phase ends. on the other hand, most european farmers receive less area-based support, so hungarian farmers also receive 11 euros less per hectare. it is sad that the biggest loser of the eu budget is rural development. but on the whole, these reports represent a reasonable compromise. we're making progress on the green side of things.
i expect the vote tomorrow to ensure the future of the cap - that was the aim of the hungarian presidency. i hope those who say that the eu does not need agricultural aid will fail. in the next seven years, hungarian farmers will be on an equal footing with the old farmers and will receive 20% more aid than in the previous seven years. the eu's agricultural policy is the most environmentally friendly in the world. the most important task of agriculture, the most important public good it produces, is food. the common agricultural policy must not jeopardise food security. a 7% reduction in the area under cultivation is therefore unacceptable! there would be serious consequences. we could lose as much as 15 million tons of grain a year. that's the same as the annual imports of one of the world's largest importers, egypt. that's twice as much as the amount used to produce biofuels in the european union. the 7% cut could even make the eu a net importer of cereals. however, it should also be ensured that european farmers can produce biomass for energy. energy forest with a cutting cycle of up to 20 years. the 20% renewable energy target, without deforestation, is not going to be achieved. energy forest, biomass for energy purposes, offers more environmental benefits than land clearing and also provides a significant income supplement to farmers.
mr president, my congratulations to the rapporteurs. they have done a wonderful job on this. now, at first sight, the redistribution of mandates should pose no problems. indeed, it should be the automatic consequence of enlargement. the eu admits a new member state and the new member state has the right to representation. in reality, as we know only too well, the process is far from trouble free. despite valiant attempts to base the redistribution of mandates on a technical or even a technocratic formula, the hard reality is that politics cannot be expelled from an issue as political as this one. crucially, no member state likes to lose mandates, so those who must will, in consequence of enlargement, do their level best to minimise their losses. then there is the question of how mandates should be distributed at all. the principle of digressive proportionality is there to ensure that small and medium-sized states are not disadvantaged, and are not under-represented politically. if they were to be so under-represented, then their voice would be even weaker than is the case, and large states need to be reminded that european integration is not a large state monopoly. if the eu is to work as an even-handed, democratic body, then the status of the smaller states as equals in terms of respect must be given cast iron safeguards. we know only too well from the history of europe what happens when large states regard smaller states as their satellites, where they are free to do as they will. the rules are there to ensure stability. the same holds true for the redistribution of mandates. there must be rules. in this instance, the logic of redistribution is that no state should lose more than one mandate and, equally, that digressive proportionality should be secured. those who seek to overturn these two fundamental principles are threatening the very bases of european integration and thereby run the risk of encouraging anti-european sentiments.
mr president, the repartition of seats is always a sensitive issue. that is why i would urge my colleagues and the council to have a broader vision of the aim of this report. our main goal is to make sure that we can welcome our croatian colleagues and prepare the next election on time. i believe that the pragmatic approach proposed by the co-rapporteurs roberto gualtieri and rafał trzaskowski is the only sustainable and applicable one in the current context and given the timeline we have to work with. it is currently impossible to change the whole system of repartition without a wide institutional reshuffle, which member states have neither the time nor the political will to conduct before the 2014 elections. moreover, we all know that the political balance in the institutions does not only depend on the repartition of seats in the european parliament. if we start to open this folder, then we should do so with the repartition of voting rights in the council and so on. therefore, in order to make sure that all member states can prepare in due time and under the proper conditions for the crucial european elections of 2014, i would ask my colleagues to support this proposal.
thank you, mr president, for speaking, and thank you for the report. i have also drawn attention on many occasions in the reports on the various statistics to the need for statistical databases and commission, economic analysis and figures in the background material to be accurate, to have a defined reference base, to be comparable, to be of the same type, to have a transparent origin and to be systematic. it does not matter what statistics are used to produce and compare forecasts and growth reports for different countries. we often feel that the commission's figures are sometimes exaggerated, either in a negative or a positive way, or that their origin is becoming obscure. that is why i consider it of the utmost importance that, in addition to the common european statistical repository available, the european system of national and regional accounts is based on reliable, comparable and timely data. i agree that in the european system now being revised, the accounts must be of the highest quality, reliable and transparent. to analyse the economic situation of a member state or region, i think that economic accounts and eu citizens need it, they need it at local and regional level. given that the majority of investments are carried out at this level, two thirds of them are carried out at this level. however, i regret that the system is not complete and that the analysis areas at nac2 and 3 will continue to be unavailable, which i consider to be of the utmost importance. i think that the report as a whole is very good, very progressive, very important in terms of its reliability. so i would suggest that you support it, and i support it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. − mr president, we welcome the report of ms hirsch in which the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has delivered an opinion under rule 50 of the rules of procedure on sharing competencies. we also congratulate the rapporteur for the good collaboration among the two committees. in many member states, the effort to integrate migrants is insufficient, and the european integration fund has not been used to its full potential. while migrants are often portrayed as a security risk, integration is a two-way process, involving non-eu nationals and host societies as well. the current climate of economic crisis, and the high level of fear and rising xenophobia does not help integration. a general bottom-up approach would be needed with the participation of all stake-holders at all levels. this is the only way effective integration can be realised. migration is, and will be, a basic enhancement for the eu, not only in economic terms, but also in respect of the social and cultural aspects of full societies.
on behalf of the ppe group. - my colleagues, madam vice president. i want to be specific. i now call on the commission to undertake a full review of the european disability strategy as soon as possible, taking into account the 2011 report of the european parliament. moving on, we all know that the situation of people with disabilities is deteriorating in all european countries - and this debate is timely. but i also think we need to talk about positive examples. we also need to talk about long-term, active strategies, like the issue of replacing large institutions in hungary. i would go further and say that we need to focus all our resources on the employment issue. but the standard of institutional and other forms of care for people with severe disabilities must also be maintained. with the dismantling of sheltered jobs, only 5% of the disabled people who are laid off can be placed in the open labour market, so they are also the losers in the process. it's important that we provide personalized services instead of automatically giving corporations a financial incentive. that's not necessary. there is a need for personalised services tailored to the needs of people with disabilities. the next steps, the inclusion, the social inclusion, must start in primary education. the opening up of jobs must also be supported. you know, whether it's a disability, whether it's a vision impairment, whether it's an intellectual disability, the price of an iphone is the barrier to a job. but no government action will be effective without them. finally, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that in america, when the crisis broke out, 700 billion dollars were invested to maintain the stability of the financial sector. today, however, they say that automatic spending cuts are coming into effect, and what is the result? 370,000 mental health care in america is at risk. so i was trying to convey that this is not the way! the path is to encourage active processes and to include people with disabilities.
on behalf of the s&d group. we have often said here that the consequences of the economic crisis are mainly borne by the most vulnerable groups in society. the charter of fundamental rights of the union states that the union recognises and respects the rights of persons with disabilities, and the european parliament's report makes it clear that the employment objective of the europe 2020 strategy cannot be achieved without the inclusion of persons with disabilities, yet in many countries those services are the first to suffer from the restrictions that have helped rehabilitation, training and labour market integration of persons with disabilities. disability benefits have decreased, for example in hungary, during the review of the disability pension, 50% of disabled people were excluded from the scheme by retroactive legislation. with no jobs, they are largely without provision. i ask the commission to send a clear signal to the member states that budgetary cuts in the provision of disabled people's services seriously jeopardise the exercise of their rights, create a situation of serious discrimination and that strategies are absolutely needed at european and national level to prevent and reverse these consequences.
mr. president and madam commissioner. while legislation and international commitments in this area sound good and are moving forward - which is clearly on the cards - it is clear that compliance with these laws and proposals is regularly delayed or even missed. so i think that we need some kind of social policy reform now in education, health care, employment and personal support. today, there are about 700,000 people in hungary with altered working capacity. in 2009, 14% of them were employed, today 31% are. i'd say the direction is good. however, it is not because they do not want to work or do not want to work that more people do not work, but precisely because their jobs are not competitive. and that's where governments come in. on the one hand, i believe that aid alone is not enough to solve the problem. in fact, it can be counterproductive, because it encourages inactivity and thus creates further vulnerability. i think we need to create opportunities, from the very simple, accessibility, through inclusive education, through employer incentives, to supporting products made by people with disabilities in public procurement. on the other hand, i believe that there is still work to be done in the area of the fundamental rights of disabled people. that is why i thought it was important to be involved in this debate today, and i think that this issue must remain on the agenda and that we must move towards a solution, towards concrete solutions.
in writing. it is unfortunately a well-established fact that people with disabilities in the european union are disproportionately affected by the reduction in spending due to the economic crisis. however, i do not think that the crisis should be the reason for further decline in employment for disabled people. on the contrary, the priority given to this social group among the job creation programmes should be to further support their integration into the labour market and to ensure better conditions for this. as an example of good practice in the member states, it is worth mentioning the so-called rehabilitation card recently introduced by the hungarian government, which allows employers to benefit from a significant tax credit for the entire period of employment of a person whose working capacity has changed. another notable example in hungary is the operation of a national network of free sign language interpretation services, which also allows people with disabilities to choose the bilingual method of education. i believe that good practices in the member states such as the ones mentioned above make an effective contribution to the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market and thus to the achievement of the europe 2020 goals. however, the successful operation of the programmes requires that member states have adequate eu support at their disposal, and i therefore ask the european commission to do its utmost to ensure that the necessary resources are available.
mr president, mr commissioner, madam minister, i have to ask you to please leave. first of all, i would like to say that i agree with the commission's recent annual forecast, although i cannot fully identify it with the vague methodology and the fact that the figures are rarely available, but i agree with the general trend. europe is slowly but surely beginning to shake off the shackles of the crisis. we have even more ambitious plans: the completion of economic and monetary union, the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. however, my fellow congressmen, my joy is far from complete. i worry that in the midst of fighting the crisis and setting ambitious goals, we forget that we are doing our job. i have just heard, one after the other, from my socialist, communist, liberal and green colleagues how they want to use the council and the commission as a means of examining democracy in hungary. my colleagues have been doing this for two years, without success! hungarian democracy has been buried for two years, and hungarian democracy is still alive! they will not be able to go to the council or the commission after that. they always give you generalities and never specifics. why do they do this? well, my fellow mps, it's because you know very well that hungarian democracy is not damaged. you know very well that it may be your informants who initiated the attacks on fidesz headquarters, using youth and the homeless as tools. mr president, we must not only be careful about the correctness of the objective but also about the chosen methodology.
i'm going to ask you to leave. yesterday, in this very room, hundreds of exclamation points rose in protest against the hungarian constitution. meps are well aware of the situation in hungary, as we have dealt with it in three resolutions and adopted a resolution. yesterday, right-wing hungarian mps issued a statement calling on the socialist, green, left-wing and liberal factions to abandon their irresponsible policies. they think it's irresponsible to criticize. it is irresponsible, mr barroso, mr schulz, mrs merkel, but it is also irresponsible, mrs stamm, the chairwoman of the bavarian parliament's csu, who cancelled her meeting with the speaker of the hungarian parliament today in protest. i ask the leaders of the union and you to act with decisive wisdom for the sake of hungarian democracy. let the desperate hungarian people know that europe will not let them down. act in a way that expresses your love for hungary, my country, the hungarian people!
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 14 march 2013 at 11.30. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point 1 of the annex to the decision:
my dear officer. in addition to upholding our core values, we must bring ukraine closer to the european union, not further away. the european union must be firm, consistent but cautious in its approach to ukraine, lest the eu lose ukraine to the opposition of the ukrainian government. i agree with the commissioner's opinion. the european union has made it clear to ukraine on several occasions that it cannot expect the european union to sign a free trade agreement until the ukrainian government guarantees the application of the rules of democracy. at the same time, i would point out that we cannot expect ukraine, in the framework of free trade negotiations, to adjust its former soviet-style economy in one fell swoop to the conditions that the eu expects from the candidate countries.
as important as china is to the european union as a strategic partner, we cannot ignore all the violations that we see in china. the restrictions and violations of the rights of the tibetan and uighur minorities, and the violations of the rights of political opposition are of particular concern. and we should also take action on trade, because eu companies are discriminated against. but we in the union should also think carefully about our relations with chinese companies that want to invest in europe. i believe that the european union should also be more open to these companies, because we need to invest in creating new jobs in europe - especially in cutting-edge technologies, telecommunications and information technology.
mr. chairman, members of the committee. i am very pleased that this important issue is being addressed by the european commission and the european parliament. the fact is that sports are a growing business in the world, and unfortunately, they are also a growing attraction for those who try to make money from them by cheating and dishonestly. however, we must not only talk about football - my colleagues have been mainly concerned with this sport - but we must unfortunately admit that other team sports and even various competitions are also involved in this area. the social role of sport is paramount, and we must protect sport itself. sport offers children a chance to catch up socially, helps them to integrate into society and offers them a vision of the future - especially for those living in disadvantaged and isolated areas - that can be a springboard for them. it's not enough to be a european-level alliance, because asia is the hotbed of sports cheating. in order to protect young people, it should be prohibited to bet on matches involving minors. and the most severe possible penalties should be given at the national level. in addition, specialised units should be set up to work together in a coordinated manner at european level.
in writing. match-fixing is a serious problem in the member states, not only because of its frequency and the threat to the integrity of sport, but also because of its links to organised crime. in february, an international team of investigators from five member states, led by operation veto, established that organised football-related crime was widespread in europe. in sport, the lack of good governance, financial financing and transparency of risk analysis plans have allowed for match-fixing. in addition, organised crime has used fur to support other illegal activities, such as money laundering and drug trafficking. we are currently dealing with criminal organizations that operate on an international scale, and no single institution, country or organization can effectively combat them on its own. so it's only by working together and cooperating that we can achieve a result against match-fixing, with law enforcement and public authorities, sports agencies and bookmakers. i am a sports fan myself, so i am very sorry that in the most popular sport, football, a european-wide fraud has been uncovered, which has disappointed millions of fans.
in writing. − this report proposes the distribution of mandates in the ep for the next 2014-2019 cycle. the change is necessary because of the accession of croatia to the eu and the treaty of lisbon, which has entered into force since the last elections. the number of seats in the european parliament for each member state will change from 2014 because the treaty of lisbon limits the number of meps to 751 instead of the current 754, while it is planned to include representatives of croatia, which will join in july 2013. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it was the best thing for our country, and i voted for it.
in writing. − as a result of the accession of croatia, the number of seats in the european parliament will increase from the current 754 to 766 as from july 2013, as we need to provide croatia with an additional 12 seats for the period until the end of the current term. however, the treaty on european union provides that the number of members of the european parliament shall not exceed 751 as from 2014. the number of mandates should therefore be reduced by 15. it is for parliament to solve the problem of how to fairly reduce the representation of the 27 member states below the 751 threshold in accordance with the principle of degressive proportionality. the solution proposed by parliament is that 12 member states will send one fewer member to parliament next year. hungary is also a member of this group. in my opinion, a pragmatic solution has been found, based on loss minimisation and resulting in the smallest possible reduction in the mandate for hungary. although hungary's population has fallen below the psychological threshold of 10 million according to the latest census data, our country would still be entitled to the representation of the 10-11 million member states according to the report just voted by the european parliament. the decision is a good compromise for hungary, since greece, which has a population of about one and a half million more than ours, will also have 21 seats, while sweden, with a population of nine and a half million, will have only 20 seats.
in writing. − the commission would have amended the annex to the regulation on spirit drinks, which deals inter alia with the protection of the origin and composition of various alcoholic beverages, at the level of a draft implementing regulation. the commission's amendment package included the finalisation of the protection of the authenticity of the new whitening spirit. in the so-called comitology procedure, parliament has a veto on draft commission implementing regulations prepared by the envi as the committee responsible. i voted against this decision because its adoption would have rejected the commission's original proposal, which would have delayed the finalisation of the protection of the authenticity of hungarian pálinka.
in writing. − the legislation to be introduced will eliminate the discrimination against hungarian farmers in the new member state in terms of direct payments: hungarian farmers will receive 100% of the aid as producers in the old member states. as a result, hungarian agriculture will receive 20% more aid in the 2014-2020 budget period than in the previous 7 years. from a hungarian point of view, it is an important achievement that the range of sectors receiving coupled support has been significantly extended. support for tobacco producers can be maintained, thus preserving 20 000 jobs, mainly for low-skilled workers of roma origin, and it will be possible to grant subsidies in the pig and poultry sectors. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this very important proposal deals with the first pillar of the common agricultural policy (2014-2020) to come into force from 2014, the detailed rules for direct (area-based) payments to farmers. a detailed explanation of the complex system of direct payments is beyond the scope of this paper. there is undoubtedly some improvement in the payment system in favour of small farms and young farmers over mega-farms, but overall the cap planned for post-2014 continues to encourage concentration of economic size and industrial material production over diversified job creation. therefore, based on jobbik's basic philosophy, it cannot be supported in its current form.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the house of commons, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole house of commons during the votes in plenary. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, since the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, we also represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation may differ from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. - the great thing about this report is that it has managed to preserve the most important market regulations. the sugar quota could be maintained until 2020 and the only remaining hungarian sugar factory, the one in kaposvár, could continue to operate. restrictions on vine plantings will remain in place until 2030. without them, the capital-rich spanish and italian wineries could have embarked on huge vineyard plantations, crowding out the less competitive hungarian producers. on the proposal of my colleague béla glattfelder, hungary's isoglucose quota may be increased by 30,000 tonnes. this may be a unique hungarian success, as no other member state's production quota is increasing. i voted for the bill.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the house of commons, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole house of commons during the votes in plenary. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, since the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, we also represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation may differ from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. − the report, which i voted for, will allow member states to use rural development funds much more freely than in the previous seven-year budget period. another important result from the hungarian point of view is that the european parliament would allow for the support of irrigation investments in the case of new investment.
in writing. − the report on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy, adopted by the european parliament, has the potential to make payments much simpler and less administrative in the future, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − reducing europe's energy dependence, reducing co2 emissions and ensuring the security of energy supply are all objectives to be achieved. widespread access to cheap, yet environmentally friendly and easily manageable energy is important. these requirements seem to contradict each other, but only in appearance. the solution is a fourth-generation nuclear power plant with a breeder reactor, which produces additional fissile material from the normal, cheaply available isotope uranium-238. it meets all the criteria. but thorium is a cheap and plentiful fissile material. these are the only two technologies that, based on what we know today, will guarantee the entire energy supply of the earth with cheap electricity for the next 150 to 200 years. with such a prospect, is it worth it to install huge propellers on the sea, on our fallow fields, making nature ugly? do you want my uncertain, cyclical, and expensive electricity? if we don't waste the gas to generate electricity, it's enough for 150 to 200 years.
in writing. − energy production in modern times is based on much more complex conditions than in the past. therefore, the focus should now be on energy planning and management of existing systems, thereby ensuring sustainable development. the rationalisation of natural resources is inevitable in any area of human activity. the european union currently has 47 nuclear power stations with more than 100 000 people living within a 30 km radius. the risk of nuclear accidents exists and will continue to exist, but no major accidents have occurred. the safety level of nuclear power plants in europe is generally considered to be high, but further safety standards should be maintained and improved for all european power plants. in view of the above, the eu nsas continued to conclude that the closure of nuclear power plants was not warranted. fukushima has had a major impact on public perceptions of nuclear power plants in individual member states, so it is important to carry out comprehensive risk and safety assessments of nuclear power plants and related activities (resistance testing), i.e. to inform and educate people about nuclear safety.
in writing. − in the wake of the fukushima disaster in march 2011, the european union decided to assess the safety status of european reactors. the stress tests have shown that, although power plants are compliant, almost everywhere additional safety improvements are needed. i agree with the measures that will enable nuclear power stations to meet the highest safety standards. i therefore vote in favour of member states further strengthening official supervision of nuclear power stations.
in writing. − the amendments in the greens are unacceptable, but the report itself is acceptable, the bottom line is that no significant deficiency was found in any power plant that would jeopardise safe operation. this is not surprising, since european nuclear power plants are indeed subject to rigorous and regular inspections. shouldn't we be stress-testing coal plants, which cause about 20,000 premature deaths a year?
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling on the eu to take action to combat the situation in the middle east. however, it is clear from the nominally anti-racism motion that it is in fact a complete reverse protectionism, where everyone is protected except the indigenous christian peoples of europe. the motion proposes further criminal prosecution of those who criticize in any way certain highly protected groups (gypsies, jews, homosexuals, transvestites, muslims), while aggression against indigenous peoples and their religion is not mentioned. in addition, several amendments falsely claim that the victims of so-called crimes are primarily protected minorities. on the other hand, every thinking person from hungary to spain knows and experiences that acts of violence are committed primarily against europeans by various ethnic and religious groups. the ep's political groups are not concerned with the number of pensioners brutally murdered each month in hungary by gypsy criminal groups, or with the fact that muslim representatives in western europe openly threaten to introduce sharia law, or with the fact that muslims in armed gangs are terrorising europeans in the streets, schools and entire city districts, but with what one or another representative of jobbik or golden dawn has said. we reject the motion, which is full of anti-christian and anti-european falsehoods.
in writing. − the functioning of the endocrine system is crucial to the functioning of our body. our endocrine glands produce hormones that act as neurotransmitters in the central nervous system. it is essential for such vital functions as reproduction, growth, and development, as well as for the flow of energy that is essential for the functioning of the body. in endocrine regulation, the feedback principle applies, i. e. the production of the regulatory hormone increases as the level of the regulatory hormone in the body decreases. the endocrine system is extremely important, yet complex and fragile. a serious problem of our time is the harmful effect of the countless pollutants that we encounter every day. the commission should therefore develop the necessary legislative framework to take greater account of the risks posed by endocrine disrupting substances. the scope of the rules on materials that children come into contact with, such as textiles, toys, packaging materials, is particularly important, as our children are the most exposed to substances that damage the endocrine system. for these reasons in particular, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the number of diseases stemming from disorders of human hormonal functions is increasing year by year. research consistently confirms that such malfunctions of the endocrine systems – which adversely affect the reproductive potential of the european population to a large extent – are mostly attributable to external factors. these triggers include for the most part lifestyle-related triggers, such as improper nutrition and stress, but endocrine disruptors are also to be found in everyday chemicals around us in furniture, food packaging, cosmetics or building materials. children and pregnant women are highly vulnerable to such harmful effects. the commission and the member states must – in line with eu policies on health and prevention – seek ways to restrict the use of harmful chemicals and pay special attention to reducing the exposure of children to such substances, for example by better regulating the production of toys and the construction of education facilities. furthermore, scientific research on ways to replace endocrine disruptors with health-neutral chemicals must be supported.
in writing. − in our resolution, we call on the commission to submit as soon as possible a proposal to enable insurance associations to operate at european level and across borders. the statute of european insurance associations would create a voluntary system in the form of an optional legal instrument allowing insurance associations to pursue their activities in different member states. it should be stressed that these legislative initiatives leave unchanged the various national laws in force and cannot be regarded as aiming at the approximation of the laws of the member states applicable to insurance associations.
in writing. − sport is a growing business in the world, and with it, a growing lure for those who try to make money by dishonest means. it is not just football that should be discussed, because other team and competitive sports have also become involved in this area. the social role of sport is paramount, and sport must protect itself. sport promotes social integration, provides opportunities for children to catch up socially and offers them a vision of the future, especially those living in disadvantaged and isolated areas, which can be a springboard for them. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − as the criminal networks behind the fur trade are generally large and international, member states need to cooperate closely with law enforcement, sports agencies and betting houses to tackle them. the influence on the outcome of matches is a serious problem in the eu member states, not only because of its frequency and the threat to the integrity of sport, but also because of its links with organised crime. in february, an international team of investigators from five member states, who led the so-called veto operation to combat them, proved that organised crime linked to football was widespread in europe. member states alone cannot tackle corruption in sport, as criminal organisations operate across national borders. the manipulation of sports results endangers the integrity of sport as a whole and therefore zero tolerance should be applied to any such activity. more effective cooperation between the member states of the union and with third countries is essential to combat corruption in sport effectively and thus to preserve the genuine spirit of competition in sport.
mr president my fellow members of the house of representatives! the increase in the price of carbon dioxide was a stimulus for green investment in its time. but the five-year crisis has made this not the age of investment. our task: to reduce the shrinkage by political means, to stabilize our competitiveness. without investment, the artificial support of the carbon market is diverted to financial support of the state budget and energy companies, increasing the burden on the processing industries and the population. the specific hungarian aspect is that per capita greenhouse gas emissions are lower than those of developed countries, so the proposal in this form also makes it difficult for us to catch up. although my colleagues spoke on behalf of specific companies, i would simply stress that the instrument is not suitable in this form because of the expected reduction in employment in the manufacturing industries and in small and medium-sized enterprises. i ask you to consider these.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! i myself support this commission proposal. i think it is necessary to take these steps in order to complete this process as quickly and smoothly as possible. i think, however, that there are still conditions which we will have to work out later. the possibility of derogation is a good opportunity for this, and - if we are talking about the three airlines in hungary - two of them have already predicted that they will be able to do so. so i think we're on the right track, and we need to take decisive steps to reduce emissions overall. this is also the case for air transport, air traffic, so i think that this extension cannot go without support.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. (the member resumed his speech because of a technical problem.) mr. president, if you will allow me, i would like to wait until the commissioner takes my hungarian. shall i start again from the beginning? the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we hear a lot about how the economic crisis has left us without money for equal opportunities. i don't accept the argument, it is an excuse! equal opportunities must always be considered, because it is part of the solution. it is important that proper laws be made and enforced. we are talking about a very important topic today: how the objectives of the directive on gender discrimination, which is the first to appear at eu level, have been achieved. ideally, we can do this by having a report prepared by the european commission with lots of up-to-date, relevant data. unfortunately, that report was never completed. the commission was informed that it would have been completed in time, but the test-achats case and its consequences came up. as you know, following the complaint of the belgian consumer protection organisation, the european commission has stated that after 21 december 2012 there can no longer be any gender distinction in insurance premiums and services. the consequences of this are still difficult to see, but the price increase was almost inevitable. this is unacceptable from the point of view of consumers, particularly in times of economic crisis. i therefore ask the commission to monitor price changes directly. i believe that in the long term a review of the directive is inevitable because the directives issued do not provide sufficient legal certainty. in the short term, i hope that the commission will engage in a constructive dialogue with the insurance industry on the statistical methods used in personalised risk assessment and on the rethinking of the pricing system. but that's just one rule in the policy. our debate today will assess the extent and consequences of the implementation of the directive in the member states on the basis of the available data. it shall identify the deficiencies and propose possible solutions to fill them. i am sure the commission will be open to constructive cooperation. so i want to show direction with my work. what to look for when preparing the above-mentioned report. the highlights of my report in telegraphic style. if the directive is to be revised, we need to think very seriously about including the media and education. in general, there is a need for greater transparency on the part of the commission with regard to ongoing infringement procedures and the measures taken. the protection of victims could be improved by establishing a public database of legislation and case law relating to gender discrimination. it is clear from this directive - as from so many others - that the right pace of transposition is very important. i ask the commission to help and encourage the member states by all means at its disposal. it is essential to make citizens aware of their rights and remedies. that's why i'm stressing the importance of campaigning on this. 2013 is a great opportunity for a dialogue about europe, as this year is the european year of citizens, during which one of our main tasks is to inform european citizens about their rights and opportunities in the eu. last but not least, i'd like to thank the secretariat, my colleagues, and the shadow reporters for their work. i also thank the european commission for its openness and i would like to say that i am here to help in the future, as we have gained a lot of experience. i'd like to ask officer damanaki to give a message to viviane reding.
blue-card question. – my question is: do you or do you not consider it sexual discrimination that contraception and family planning is still considered to be the sole responsibility of women? is it not discrimination? – because you were talking about discrimination in this context in another way. i think that it should be approached this way as well, especially for natural family planning or other means of contraception which can be used by men and should be advertised or marketed more, and that is in my view an equality issue. do you agree with me?
it's not enough for women to have the right to be treated without discrimination. so, for example, to start a small business, to take out a bank loan in the same way and on the same terms as a man in a similar situation. or that they are not discriminated against for being female when applying for a job. or in the course of their work because they're pregnant or they're mothers. it is not enough that it is a fact and that it is a law or a european union standard. it would also be important for women to be aware of these rights and of the european union's commitment to equal treatment and to be able to assert their rights. i would like to ask the commissioner and the rapporteur, my fellow hungarian citizen zita gurmai, whom i congratulate, how women in our common country, hungary, can be made aware of their rights and be able to enforce them, for example, in the event of a series of serious discrimination at work or of non-recruitment to work, by referring to european union standards?
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and my colleagues for their highly valuable input and comments. i think it is very clear that parliament recognises the importance of this dossier and overall of ensuring gender equality in all fields, including access to and the supply of goods and services. as i said in my introductory remarks, this is the first ever piece of legislation to tackle gender equality in access to and the supply of goods at european level. thanks to anadio montopolo. i believe that we all agree that, just as with all directives, proper implementation is the key here and, of course, the role of the commission is paramount. in order to assess this, we are in need of up-to-date and accessible data. there are positive experiences when it comes to implementation of this directive, but it is clear that further steps are necessary in certain areas. i hear the points that some of you raised regarding my reference to the inclusion of the media and advertisements in the scope of the directive: should there be revision? let me assure you that i am just as committed to the freedom of the press as you are, but i am also committed to eradicating gender-based stereotypes, and these fields do play a major role in the birth, survival and, sometimes, strengthening of these stereotypes. i am also confident that, with proper drafting, these two things can be reconciled, so i am counting greatly on you. finally, i would like to reiterate once more what i said about the changes in pricing of certain insurance products. i do not doubt that the industry uses reliable data – and differentiation is not discrimination. however, we do have an ecj judgment, and we need to adapt to this in a way that is not detrimental to the customer. i insist on this point, and in this i count on the commission and the insurance industry to enter into a constructive and fruitful discussion, either regarding new factors in pricing or a revision of the directive, or both. during the current crisis, citizens keep losing trust and faith in the european union. let us try to reverse this negative trend.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! network security is a growing issue in our daily lives. this has already been recognised by several member states, including hungary, and the hungarian legislature has recently adopted a law on the electronic information security of public and local government bodies. the legislation provides a uniform legal framework for dealing with potential network threats and sanctions the establishment of a rapid-response government body, cert, which is responsible for protecting critical infrastructure. the hungarian cert can thus be integrated into the european network and information security agency without any problems, as the new legislation provides for closer cooperation with enisa and europol. the draft enisa legislation also proposes structural changes to the current organisational structure. the draft provides for the creation of an executive board, which will make the agency's overall functioning more efficient. the executive director, who is the head of the board, will also be responsible for preparing regular reports on enisa's work for the members of the committee on industry, research and energy. the agency's long-term functioning is ensured by a seven-year mandate, which is reviewed after five years. predictability and long-term planning are particularly important in the light of the commission's recently presented cybersecurity strategy, which will soon be discussed by the european parliament.
in writing. as a member of the european people's party's cybersecurity advisory board and as the author of the opinion on the protection of critical it infrastructures, i would also like to add some comments to the report on the present and future of enisa. network and information security as a focus of security policy requires a flexible and efficient operational structure. with due respect for the position of the council and the commission and the opinion of the epp, i would in no way dismiss the idea of moving the seat to brussels in order to increase the efficiency of the agency. as the committee on budgets has underlined, the union budget is faced with very significant additional costs, not only from a financial point of view but also because of the difficulty of access. but just as important is the fact that the enisa team could develop much more lively personal contacts with meps and staff of the eu institutions, and that experts could attend professional meetings in brussels. this is justified by the coordinating role assigned to enisa since its establishment. the brussels headquarters could also facilitate closer cooperation with the member states and with the eu law enforcement bodies in the brussels area (europol, european computer crime centre, eurojust) and the judiciary (international court of justice in the hague, european court of justice in luxembourg). it may still be politically hampered today, but it should not be completely removed from our future plans.
my fellow members of parliament! in an interview with magyar népszava, commissioner reding said of the commission's inquiry into hungary: 'we cannot forget about other guarantees of the rule of law, such as respect for persons belonging to minorities. so we are looking at the core values on which the eu is built. i find it strange that when i turn to the commission for specific, documented violations of minorities in other member states, asking for the application of fundamental values, i get the same negative, meaningless answer for years: the protection of minorities is a national responsibility, there is no eu competence for it. this means either that the european commission has a proven double standard - which is unacceptable - or that there has been a shift in its position on minorities. in this case, however, i would expect responses to the violations of the law against many national minorities and at least the same severity towards the member states concerned as the commission is now testifying in the case of hungary. for example, you need to be consistent in your adherence to your core values.
mr president, in the context of international trade with developing countries, i would like to ask what the official opinion of the commission – and that of the rapporteur – on the principle of food sovereignty, which is a newly-developing collective human right, is? do you have any relationship with the united nations special rapporteur on food issues and food sovereignty? the idea is, of course, that each country or each community has the right to produce its own food and that local consumers have a corresponding right to have access to locally-produced, fresh, healthy food. do we observe this right to food sovereignty or do we not?
mr prime minister! first of all, i want to thank you for your thoughts today and for drawing attention to the need for fair integration and for giving due attention to the issue of credibility. however, i would also like to say that i agree that our proposals can only be useful if they fit into a fully jointly designed european economic policy system, can be integrated and linked to it and are also part of an advanced crisis management mechanism. we must continue to take decisive steps to strengthen our economy, but we must take steps that will have a much shorter-term impact. unfortunately, it seems to me that the commission is making more and more proposals, it is coming up with more and more ideas, but they are no longer of practical use. however, the burden of these measures is heavy on the population and member states. i am also glad that the issue of youth unemployment has been raised. i am glad that we have heard the voices of young people, but at the same time i see that our responses are not quick enough, not reform-oriented enough, and fall short of what we expect in their impact. i think we need to speed up this process. but not by opening up new and new topics, not by seeing the practical use of them, but by doing a thorough job. we will draw up a european crisis map that clearly identifies the points that need to be addressed. i agree with you: fair integration, common rules that we have created together, with which we think together about the future of europe, responsibly, by making the rules that we have made, our basic values, equally relevant to everyone, both in the future and in the present.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. i consider it very important to have a uniform regulation of capital requirements for investment firms and credit institutions, because it guarantees the safety and functioning of the creditors' market. the increased capital buffer is an important measure for banks, as i believe that government assistance should be avoided at all costs in order to avoid having to finance bank rescue packages with taxpayers' money. on the other hand, it is important that credit institutions are able to provide credit to smes, which is a necessary precondition for the stimulation of the internal market, even in the short term. another new element of the regulation to be highlighted is transparency. i consider this essential to restore confidence and maintain operational security. finally, i consider the issue of the regulation of independent mortgage law to be a significant success for hungary. this credit structure has been a well-functioning system in hungary for a long time. the scheme ensures that if the original mortgage lender becomes insolvent, the mortgage lender automatically becomes the holder of the refinanced mortgage loan and thus the debtor is obliged to continue to pay directly to the mortgage lender.
mr president, on behalf of 40 colleagues who asked me to support them, on the basis of article 56(3) we would like to ask you to proceed to the vote, since the commission did not withdraw the position. we would like to have a final vote on the draft resolution in order to close the procedure.
in writing. − as a hungarian representative, i supported the backloading proposal because the planned measure would serve the national economic interests of hungary in the broader context and in the long term. if the measure increases the price of co2 allowances, my country could get higher revenues, which would enrich the central budget by 50% and provide funds for investments in climate protection and green economy development by 50%. hungary needs these resources particularly badly now, because it not only has to make up for significant backlogs in this area, but also has ambitious, green investment commitments. however, i am aware that the measure may be burdensome for electricity producers and energy-intensive industries and may also have an indirect impact on electricity prices. however, it is important to note here that analyses have shown that this represents an additional burden for them that can be tolerated in annual or per-installation demolition and does not endanger their operation, and that, thanks to the consumer protection and risk reduction measures of the hungarian government, no additional burden would be imposed on private consumers in terms of electricity prices. on the basis of all this, i voted against the amendment to reject the backloading proposal.
in writing. − the supervision of financial sector institutions is undergoing a major transformation. the process is also driven by spontaneous sectoral developments and the organization of financial institutions into financial groups. the european union is moving towards more uniform regulation of the financial sector, which is also leading to a more uniform approach to supervision and an institutional framework. this was reinforced by the financial sector crisis, which also highlighted shortcomings. the need for unification is recognized by almost everyone, yet the process is constantly hampered. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is appropriate to achieve the harmonisation necessary and sufficient to ensure mutual recognition of authorisations and prudential supervision systems. the smooth functioning of the internal market requires not only legal regulation but also close and regular cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states and a significantly enhanced convergence of regulatory and supervisory practices.
in writing. − to overcome the economic crisis, stronger banking supervision and more prudent lending are needed than ever before. i therefore welcome the fact that euro area banks will have to meet stricter capital adequacy criteria. the transparency is greatly enhanced by the fact that banks will now have to report their annual profits and the state aid received in a country-wide breakdown. i voted in favor of the proposal that bankers' bonuses not exceed their annual salary. the current practice is unsustainable: while failing banks need state support, bankers take home multiple times their annual salary in the form of bonuses.
in writing. − the incorporation of prudential requirements into the form of regulations reinforces the direct applicability of the requirements to the member states. this ensures a level playing field by not allowing for the entry into force of different requirements in member states resulting from different transpositions of the directive. i voted in favour of the report as it ensures that all credit institutions and investment firms follow the same rules across the union, which especially in times of crisis strengthens confidence in the stability of credit institutions and investment firms.
in writing. − ground handling at eu airports. i voted against the opinion on the extension and further liberalisation of groundhandling services at eu airports. the basic idea is that, in order to increase the capacity of european airports, reduce delays and improve services for passengers, eu airports should fully ensure that both passengers and individual airlines are served as fully and efficiently as possible before and after they start operations. although i agree with the objectives outlined above, i did not vote in favour of the final adoption of the opinion, as such market liberalisation is not possible in the current economic situation. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2012 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2012.
in writing. − the aviation industry had high hopes for the european commission's proposal. in my view, the problem identified is twofold: on the one hand, ground handling is not sufficiently efficient and, on the other hand, its quality in terms of reliability, flexibility, protection, safety and environmental protection is generally not keeping pace with changing needs. although the proposal represents a significant step forward compared to the existing legislative framework, i believe that, even after the rejection last december, there were still substantive issues that would have required further discussion. i agree with the market players that the proposal may further increase the pressure on the ground handling companies. this would also lead to a fall in wage levels, a deterioration in job security and training opportunities for workers, and an increase in part-time and temporary employment. i therefore voted against the amended proposal.
in writing. − efficient ground handling is of paramount importance to passengers, airports and airlines, and i therefore agree with the introduction of standards to ensure quality of service. the full market opening proposed in the field of groundhandling services as a result of the economic crisis would not bring any tangible benefits to consumers but would further increase the burden on the undertakings providing groundhandling services. this would lead to a reduction in the wages of employees and to a deterioration in the security of employment and the training opportunities of workers. that's why i voted against the mandatory full market opening.
in writing. − ensuring equal opportunities for women and men is one of the european union's main political aspirations. one of the objectives of my colleague from gurkhas report was to assess the extent and consequences of the implementation of directive 2004/113/ec by the member states, to identify the existing shortcomings and to propose possible solutions to fill them. his suggestions are sound. i am convinced that the creation of a public database of legislation and case law relating to gender discrimination could improve the protection of victims of gender discrimination. i therefore voted in favour of the report, as i agree with the honourable member that there is a need for greater transparency in the measures taken.
in writing. − the directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services has not yet been transposed in some member states or the legislation is too broadly formulated for implementation, while on the other hand, some countries have widened the scope to cover education too. despite some questionable issues addressed – such as how compatible the equal treatment principle’s application to media and advertising is with freedom of the press – i voted in favour of the report, because it is highly important to address the widespread discrimination of women in this field, especially in relation to the planning of childbearing, pregnancy, maternity and breastfeeding. it is to be welcomed too that the directive shifts the burden of proof so that respondents must prove the absence of breach with regard to the principle of equal treatment. the necessity of proper statistical data and reliable information is also to be emphasised, in order to enable legislators to amend the rules according to the relevant case law as well as to improve the protection of victims.
in writing. − multinational enterprises often have a significant impact on the societies and environments of developing countries and are responsible for the impact they have on local communities: they can help or hinder development. fair wages, adequate and healthy working conditions and the possibility of forming or joining a trade union are the absolute minimum requirements that european companies must meet for their employees in developing countries. i supported this report because i believe that we have a moral obligation to help reduce poverty and alleviate suffering in the world. this can be done effectively by developing trade agreements that allow developing countries to participate effectively in the international economy and to reap the benefits of globalisation.
in writing. − economic growth in developing countries has been exemplary in recent years, often in contradiction with conventional economic trends, and has consistently outpaced that of developed countries. the flow of capital, goods and labour between developing countries is now growing faster than trade between developing and developed countries. the strength of these markets also has a positive impact on the world economy, as it can partially offset the impact of the economic slowdown in the developed world. they have developed disciplined financial structures that are able to keep up with rapid market changes and attract foreign investment. in some cases, of course, the problem may be the problem of obtaining capital. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the proposals put forward by my colleague, mr saïfi, can help reduce inequalities and promote growth.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. first of all, i'd like to thank the speaker for his work. because although we did disagree on many points at the beginning of the report, the report before us is now much more balanced and moderate. i would also like to emphasise that i certainly welcome the ecb's proactive approach in the euro area crisis in 2011 and 2012. it is clear to me that the extraordinary measures of the european central bank can only succeed and have any positive impact if the member states, together with every rigorous element of economic governance, actually implement certain public finance reforms. the ecb has never had, and will never have, the task of directly financing the public debt. the ecb is obliged to redistribute the contributions paid to it and any surpluses accumulated in bond purchases to the euro area national banks, which then decide how to encourage credit outflows through commercial banks. however, it is a fact, and a sad fact, that these lending operations were not done in the way and to the extent that europe's recovering economy would have needed. but i don't think, my fellow congressmen, that it would be wise to blame the federal reserve for this. the report, among many others, makes an important reference to the clarification of the ecb's role within the troika. we know very little about the exact division of tasks and responsibilities. however, we believe that the primary task of the bank remains to maintain price stability, although its new tasks will not be affected by its current structure in the long term. clearly, care must be taken to separate these. i do think, and our amendments reflect this, that time will tell whether the ecb has acted correctly in 2011. we can't decide whether interest rate cuts and increases are right. however, i am also confident that the central bank in its late stage of crisis management acted in a timely and reasonable manner both in relation to itself and to other international institutions. therefore, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot accept the idea - and if this remains the main thrust of the report, then i cannot accept the report as a whole - that the ecb's good faith and expertise, which may be assumed on the basis of the above, cannot be assumed in the report.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow citizens! the european people's party supports the granting of immunity to the european court of justice, the european court of auditors and the european external action service. unfortunately, this does not mean that the functioning of these three institutions has not been seriously affected by the court of auditors and the parliament's committee on budgetary control. i think it is important to mention that the main problem for the european court of justice is the growing backlog of cases, which has been increasing since 2010. the solution is on the council's table, as the council has before it proposals to improve the situation of the court's human resources. a major problem for the european court of auditors is the serious geographical imbalance among its senior officials. the countries that joined in 2004 and 2007 were deeply underrepresented at director/head of department level. the european parliament examined the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the first time. we found that there is currently no adequate analysis of the use of money spent on the cost of recruiting new staff in 2011. out of 8800 applicants, 118 workers were selected through a very costly procedure. the issue of property management is a serious one, which will have to be addressed in the coming years in the foreign service discharge procedure. there are serious inequalities in the management of the foreign service's real estate. and there's a geographical imbalance among senior foreign service officers and employees. but it is an important point - and i have to remind you in one sentence - that the recommendation for exemption includes an obligation for staff of the foreign service to declare whether they have collaborated with the secret services of any state in the course of their previous employment. this is an important precedent-setting finding for the report.
my fellow members of parliament, mr. commissioner, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors, the court of auditors. the six-year economic crisis has put a strain on voters, and that makes it even more important for us to keep a focus on thrift and transparency. this is especially important as the election approaches. let me say, however, that in addition to reducing errors and the margin of error, it is equally important that we increase the efficiency of the money spent on individual european policies, that we find the possible synergies and the possible locations where we can modernise our own activities and where we can increase the confidence of the voters. i can honestly tell you that i have my favourites among the european institutions. one of my favourites is the number of agencies, because i've been dealing with them myself as a presenter or a shadow presenter in recent years. so i'm very pleased that this year there seems to be less conflict in the agencies' activities. but let me warn you of one thing about this. it's very important that while we're controlling for legality, we're also within the bounds of legality ourselves. i am of the opinion that the adoption of an institution's final accounts should not be prevented by an investigation into olaf. i do not think that an investigation by olaf against individual staff or against an employee should put an institutional system in a difficult position. we are therefore doing the right thing by accepting the final report in addition to the olaf investigation and waiting for olaf's decision as an institution. finally, let me mention my other favourite, because as the shadow rapporteur for the european parliament for the coming year, i have been following closely the closing debate here, so that i can incorporate all the ideas into our work for the coming year - into the work of the election year - and learn from the previous one.
i'm glad that the report on the european police college also highlights what we all see. under the leadership of the current director, cepol has not only eliminated its previous problems, but has also reduced administrative costs and increased its efficiency. in addition, and this is the most important, the number of people attending training is increasing, the evaluation of training is above 90% and over-enrolment is 100%. in this context, it is surprising that the commission's cost-cutting proposal envisages merging cepol with europol. a study done just a year ago says that this would be a threat to training. the commission proposal does not seem to have a strong financial case for merger, nor does it seem to guarantee the quality of training. the plan is not convincing, not from an organizational or financial point of view. the weakest link in the eu chain is law enforcement. instead of weakening the institution we have created to improve it, cepol's independence should not only be preserved but also strengthened.
on behalf of the s&d group. - my fellow members of parliament! mr. secretary general, please. i would like to congratulate mrs hohlmeier on her report and thank her for her cooperation on behalf of the socialist group. we have a common task to plan the year 2014 in a cost-effective and efficient way. i would stress, however, that we have been very strict in the last three years, freezing or cutting spending in many areas, and we will continue this policy in 2014. but 2014 is special in some ways. there will be an election, and with it, we have new, special duties. i welcome the fact that both the european parliament and the political parties in the european parliament are planning to mobilize to increase voter turnout and to provide resources for this. however, during the elections, it is expected that some of our representatives will not return. the administrative burden of this is now on the european parliament for the first time, having previously been a cost at the level of national parliaments. we're happy to have a one-off cost associated with croatian membership, as we should be happy for all new family members i'd like to welcome them from here in advance. but it's also very important that we modernize our work and not compromise on quality. we could translate the experience we've gained in interpreting, in translation, maybe into getting better scientific support, we could translate it elsewhere. we're working with live labor, the biggest cost is people. we have administrators, assistants, bouncers, translators helping us do our job, and we have a responsibility to them.
on behalf of the s&d group. i am convinced that visa facilitation contributes to the democratization of a country. through personal contacts, more and more people are experiencing the impact of eu values on a daily basis. the integration process in ukraine has already produced many results. but precisely because ukraine is our partner and friend, we must draw attention to some unacceptable phenomena, the solution of which must be a condition for the development of relations and the continuation of the visa liberalisation process. the law criminalizing the promotion of same-sex relationships calls into question ukraine's commitment to human rights. another cause for concern is the increasingly violent actions of the anti-minority, extremist freedom party. children from hungary and the carpathian region were attacked during the hungarian national holiday, and several monuments and synagogues were attacked. we call on ukrainian politicians to take a clear and united stance against these phenomena and to adopt an anti-discrimination law that prohibits all discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or ethnicity. make sure that this is enforced and that you guarantee the safety of all your citizens and visitors. visa facilitation is only effective if adequate human rights guarantees and a social environment free of hatred make the country attractive.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, danuta hübner, who has dealt with a very important issue and has done a very good job of this task. unfortunately, the euro area and non-euro area member states have been divided by this crisis in terms of economic performance. and this dichotomy also calls into question the effectiveness of the common economic policy. i believe that our future together is dependent on whether we can adequately reduce this worrying disparity. this proposal is therefore a very important initiative aimed at simplifying the procedures for financial assistance between the euro area and non-euro area. the contents of the report are, in my opinion, beyond doubt. because we can all see that to overcome the current problems, more building blocks are needed. it is also about creating financial stability, strengthening national responsibility, solidarity, achieving sustainable growth. it has also been proven that overcoming the crisis requires a disciplined fiscal policy, the rules of which can be laid down even at constitutional level. in order to ensure a real level playing field between member states inside and outside the euro area, a move towards allowing banks to recapitalise in non-euro area member states is needed. on the positive side, this could put sovereign debt on a sustainable path, gradually restore market confidence and, optimistically, even allow for moderate and sustained growth in the non-euro area. the limited scope of this interim report has not allowed it to deal with all the questions raised in the proposal for a regulation, but these points which are still missing from it must be adequately addressed and resolved before the final adoption of the regulation. once again, congratulations, and of course i will support the report.
i fully agree with mrs hübner's report that bank depositors from non-euro area countries, including hungary, should be afforded the same protection as banks in the euro area. if foreign parent banks are allowed to convert their subsidiaries into branches in hungary, the czech republic or poland, this will undermine the competitiveness of the national banks and the resulting distortion of competition could lead to the collapse of these banks. i fully agree with what mrs hübner has proposed in her report and i think it is very important to stress that if equal treatment is not applied to all member states and to all depositors, what is perhaps the greatest danger to the current reform process could occur: within the european union, the differences between the euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries will be dramatically deepened and the eu will be institutionally divided. we can't let that happen.
although hungary is not a member of the eurozone, its financial stability is ahead of many european union member states. in hungary, the general government deficit has remained below 3% for the last three consecutive years. since 2010, hungary's public debt has fallen from 85% to 77.5%, a feat achieved by only four other eu member states. hungary was able to avoid bankruptcy without outside help, despite being in a worse financial situation in 2010 than greece was when it voted for the eu bailout. the hungarian government's crisis management can thus serve as an example for all eu member states. nevertheless, it is also very important for us that the regulatory framework for financial support to non-euro area countries be transformed according to the report. i would therefore like to congratulate mrs danuta hübner on this report, which we shall support.
the cohesion support policy for the period 2014-2020 and the level of support will also be of particular importance for hungary. the six regions of hungary will continue to be among the most backward regions classified as a. this is a sad fact for hungarian citizens, and we hope that by 2020, thanks to the cohesion policy and the hungarian government's economic stimulus and job creation programme, the situation in our regions will have changed significantly. the commission's aid principles need to be changed because they do not meet real needs. for hungary, for example, it poses a serious problem for the central region with a classification of c. in this region, the small municipalities of the pest county, which are otherwise disadvantaged, suffer a serious loss from the aid level limited to 20% and 30% respectively. we cannot therefore be satisfied, and further amendments are needed to the commission's proposal.
it's a two-card draw. i have to ask now whether the leader of the swoboda group agrees that i should put a question to him. but i can see that's true. i would like to ask mr swoboda whether you are aware that yesterday the hungarian court, on the basis of the fourth amendment to the new basic law, banned the anti-semitic motorised demonstration 'give me gas!' which was organised by the extreme right-wing group 'life's way' on holocaust remembrance day. do you know about this? one more question, if i may ask, you criticized the fact that the constitution was amended in hungary on the basis of the decision of the constitutional court. the coalition led by you, your party in vienna, recently amended the constitution in a grand coalition over a taxi ordinance because it didn't like a decision by the constitutional court. aren't you criticizing the same thing in hungary that you're doing in austria?
on behalf of the ecr group. the hungarian government has been waging a war of independence with the european union for three years. why fight the community that our country has entered after the referendum, which is a community of values of democracy, constitutional rule of law, human and civil rights? the only logical answer is that the hungarian government does not share these values! he talks about the decline of western democracies, and sees the future in eastern authoritarian regimes. the fidesz regime is also building an authoritarian system in hungary. so he created a new one-party constitution and a series of sweeping laws. that's the line the fourth amendment fits. the dismantling of the constitutional rule of law in hungary can be considered completed. of the four amendments made over 15 months, the last is the most serious. fidesz claims that everyone misunderstands or misinterpret the changes. in his opinion, the government had done nothing more than transitional provisions of the basic law, which the constitutional court had only formally objected to and inserted into the basic law. the facts, however, show otherwise. the fourth amendment to the basic law contains many changes that have no bearing on the transitional provisions of the basic law. the provisions in question have been annulled by the constitutional court on grounds of substance. the fourth amendment prohibits the constitutional court from examining the substance of the basic law or its amendments. from now on, any provision can be written into the basic law. it is also that the mandate of the current national assembly be extended for twenty years. the possibility of substantive constitutional litigation has ceased, because the constitutional court's powers have been emptied of content. moreover, the constitutional court's decisions of the last 22 years have been annulled. the basic law itself has become anti-basic law. it contains provisions which are seriously contradictory. he can no longer fulfill the role of the constitution. the fidesz regime has returned to the communist conception of the constitution. according to this, all power belongs to the working people, who exercise this power unlimitedly through the national assembly. who will protect the hungarian citizens from the arbitrariness of unlimited power? fidesz's honest opinion is that the european union and the council of europe. we don't agree with the regime on that either. hungary will be defended and lifted up by its own people. without freedom, there is no bread!
mr president, i do not think i am terribly obsessed with papers and degrees, but still i was genuinely and deeply surprised to see on her official curriculum vitae that the ultimate authority in the european union on justice and constitutional law affairs – ms viviane reding – has, with all due respect to her, never studied a semester of law in her life, let alone having a law degree. similarly, mr tavares, who is the rapporteur on hungary and who has been scrutinising and judging our legal system, has no background in law. i do not know if there is anybody in this room who would like to go to an operating theatre to be operated upon by people who do not have a medical degree. i think that for us hungarians this is certainly not a very reassuring thing to know, and it would be lovely to know something about how exactly it works. for one thing, there is nothing wrong with having these different backgrounds – mr tavares has a background in history and ms reding has a background in humanities – but you seem to have completely misunderstood the rule of law, the principle you keep referring to, and maybe that is an issue of legal background or no legal background. for us lawyers, the essence of the rule of law is that it is the opposite of arbitrariness, and what you have been doing here in the context of the war on hungary for several years now is exactly that: arbitrariness that has nothing to do with the rule of law. the rule of law means that there are rules that are predictable, foreseeable and certain: substantive laws as well as procedural laws. you keep referring to european values in general without referring to the norms, but what exactly are those predictable, foreseeable, certain norms? that is what the rule of law is about. similarly, you have been carrying out this examination on hungary without clarifying your own rules. we have no idea: do you keep changing your rules and keep making up new rules on your way? my other point is that this has nothing to do with the rule of law, so please do not teach us about the rule of law without being bound by the principles of the rule of law yourself. thank you.
in writing. – i would like to welcome the fourth amendment of the new hungarian constitution, which provides for the opportunity of effecting civil actions against manifestations violating the dignity of communities. this legislative package codifies the findings of the hungarian constitutional court’s resolutions of 1992 and 2008, as well as following the 1997 recommendations of the council of europe on tackling hate speech. by its entry into force on 1 april, hungary has joined the 14 european countries prohibiting hate speech. the amendment also completes legal protection regarding the dignity of communities by supplementing the provisions of the penal code concerning incitement and violence against members of communities. furthermore, the provision protects freedom of speech at the same time by entrusting the tackling of hate speech to civil law instruments, which impose fewer limitations.
in writing. jobbik is a ruthless opponent of the fidesz government, but the foreign smear campaign is directed against our country, against which i have an obligation to act. i also saw in the ep that finnish meps voted out of their group on a national issue. one, our constitution is our home. number two, i wouldn't have rejected the fourth amendment. jobbik abstained because we promised to vote for a package that was good for our nation, but at least we didn't block a package that was good for the country. perhaps many in this room do not like the fact that the constitutional amendment states that the foundation of the family is marriage between a man and a woman. but most europeans like it, and i don't care about your whining. i know that champions of tolerance don't tolerate the traditional family model, which means they're excluded. graduates should have responsibilities if they have studied in a free course: that's right, and it's our private business! are you worried about the parliamentary recognition of churches? it's the same in belgium, but they don't attack. you don't like the voter registration? i don't want to either. but in england, you can be fined heavily and not be allowed to vote if you don't return the form! they don't call london a corpse after all. the homeless issue: mr barroso may love to cross homeless people, but we don't. either swallow it or encourage the homeless to settle down in front of the commission. slovakia will strip hungarian citizens of their citizenship if they take hungarian citizenship! meanwhile, the commission is concerned about voter registration. that's double standards, shame on you.
in writing. the mszp and its delegation to the european parliament reject any form of application of article 7 of the eu treaty as being inappropriate to address the democratic deficit in hungary. we consider the concerns expressed by the union regarding the state of the rule of law in hungary and the recently adopted fourth constitutional amendment to be legitimate and well founded. i agree that we should try to stop the unbridled legislative practices of fidesz, which have now dismantled the rule of law, the system of checks and balances. we urge the judicial semester initiated by viviane reding to be extended to all fundamental rights as soon as possible and to establish an appropriate sanctioning mechanism. the limitation of the constitutional court's powers also ended the last rule of law control of the orbán government. but this is not only dangerous for the current hungarian democracy, but also for the power itself. it is unacceptable that the hungarian people should pay for the obligation arising from the decision of an international court (european court of justice) as a result of faulty government policy. fair political competition in elections is called into question by the fact that the only media that will be allowed to run election ads is the mass media, which is totally manipulated and controlled by the government. you're questioning the people's right to a fair trial by allowing the head of the national judicial bureau to transfer cases. further amendment of the latter two provisions to the effect that the prohibition on advertising and the transfer of court cases do not apply to the union ... (both texts)
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out the financial audit of section iii of the general budget of the european union in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. notes with satisfaction that the revenue underlying the accounts for the year ended 31 december 2011 was legal and regular in all material respects and that the commitments underlying the accounts were legal and regular in all material respects; the report finds that the commission's supervisory and control systems are still only partially effective and that this gives the payments the most likely error rate of 3,9%. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − the european parliament has the power under the treaty to scrutinise the proper implementation of the community budget. in the closure procedure, parliament shall release the commission from the implementation of the union budget, thus closing the budgetary cycle in question. on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2011 in respect of the court's special reports on the european commission for the year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court's special reports are closely linked to the final accounts procedure, providing information on issues relating to the use of funds. the majority of the court's findings in the special reports are supported by the reports of the committee on budgetary control, on the basis of which the report calls on the european commission to act more effectively in order to ensure sound and efficient financial implementation. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. at its march meeting, the panel decided to grant the discharge, to close the 2011 accounts and to support the horizontal report on the special reports. i voted in favour of the report in both the committee and the plenary.
in writing. − the court's special reports provide information on issues of concern regarding the use of funds. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the court of auditors' special reports as an integral part of the european union's final accounts for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european parliament in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court found that all payments were free from material error during the audits and that no deficiencies were detected during the audit when assessing the compliance of the supervisory and control systems with the financial regulation. welcomes the court of auditors' conclusion that, during its audit, parliament has effectively operated the monitoring and control systems provided for in the financial regulation and that, as regards administrative expenditure in 2011, it considers that the total administrative expenditure is not materially affected by transactions for which one or more errors have been detected; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out the eighth, ninth and tenth financial audits of the european development fund for the year 2011 in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the adopted final accounts report recalls the court's view that the continuing frequency of data recording errors may pose a problem for the accuracy of the data used, as they may cause distortions in the preparation of the annual accounts. the report expresses concern that, despite repeated criticism from the court of auditors and calls from parliament for improvement, the commission has not yet remedied this situation. it also notes with satisfaction that the court of auditors considers that the revenue and commitments are free from material error. the problem is also that the court's opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments on which the accounts are based has characterised the payments as being materially flawed. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the council and the european council in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. on the basis of its audit work, the court of auditors considered that, for the financial year ended on 31 december 2011, the total amount of payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure was free from material error. however, the council did not provide parliament and the committee with a number of documents necessary to close the accounts without which the financial year 2011 cannot be closed. i. decision to postpone granting the exemption at the march meeting of the committee t. supported the postponement of the granting of the waiver in both the committee vote and the plenary vote m
in writing. − the final accounts report for the european court of justice states that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european court of justice in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2011. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report for 2011, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court of justice in 2011. as the rapporteur for the report, i thought it important to say in the plenary debate that the backlog of cases at the european court of justice is a growing problem, the number of cases pending before the court has been increasing steadily since 2010, the council is responsible for resolving the situation, and a proposal to strengthen the court's human resources is on the council's table.
in writing. − the final accounts report for the european court of justice states that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european court of justice in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2011. it is important to highlight that the court of justice is facing an increasingly serious problem of lack of human resources: since 2010, the number of cases pending before the court has been steadily increasing. in its annual report for 2011, the court of auditors did not raise any objections to the management of the court in 2011, and i therefore voted in favour of granting the discharge.
in writing. − in its annual report for the financial year 2011, the court of auditors found no significant weaknesses in the audited areas related to human resources and procurement for the court of justice of the european union. however, i believe that the reform of the statute and the rules of procedure of the court of justice should be implemented as soon as possible, taking into account the challenges posed by the increased number of cases. in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the president of the european court of justice in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report concludes that, in order to make the court's work more effective, a larger proportion of officials should be devoted exclusively to audit tasks. as the people's party responsible for the discharge of the european court of auditors, i also found it important to stress in the plenary debate that the institution must do everything possible to further strengthen the geographical balance. the problem is mainly at the top, with under-representation at director and head of department level in the member states that joined in 2004 and 2007. at the level of the administration, for example, germany is not represented, apart from the countries that joined in the 2000s. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european court of auditors in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee concluded that, in order to make the court's work more efficient, a greater proportion of officials should be involved exclusively in audit tasks. i think it's important to point out that the institution doesn't have a geographical balance. the problem is mainly at the top: the newly joined member states are underrepresented at director and department head level. the final audit report states that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation, which is why i supported the granting of the discharge in the plenary vote.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court's annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the secretary-general of the court of auditors in respect of the implementation of the court's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the economic and social committee in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report, the court of auditors' audit work has found that, for the financial year ended 31 december 2011, the payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure were, overall, free from material error. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the committee of the regions in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. on the basis of its audit work, the court of auditors considered that, for the financial year ended on 31 december 2011, the total amount of payments made by the institutions and bodies in respect of administrative and other expenditure was free from material error. k. the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the audit k. decision of the committee of experts at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2011 t. supported the granting of the exemption in both the committee vote and the plenary vote m
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european ombudsman in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. in its annual report for 2011, the court of auditors stated that it did not raise any objections to the european ombudsman's 2011 financial year. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to grant the discharge, closing the accounts for 2011. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − the european ombudsman has recently taken promising steps to make his work more transparent for the citizens of the union. i think that this approach can be particularly appreciated now, in the year of the european citizen. the ombudsman places a high priority on respect for the fundamental rights of eu citizens and encourages reasoned legislation. i consider special reports by the ombudsman on priority complaints to be an exemplary practice. the intended objectives of such reports - such as enhancing transparency - are welcome, as trust in public institutions is one of the most important indicators of democracy. citizens' complaints also highlight certain weaknesses in the eu's public administration system, such as competency gaps. in high-profile cases, special reports or opinions by the ombudsman should also be encouraged in order to gain a deeper understanding of the cases and maintain the trust of the citizens.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the audit report of the european ombudsman, which confirmed that the office operates without significant budgetary shortcomings. however, there is room for improvement in its administrative functioning with regard to the increase in the length of inquiries conducted by the european ombudsman. it is highly advisable to shorten the time of procedures so that the vast majority of inquiries could be closed in no more than twelve months. it would be beneficial therefore if the ombudsman could present his own insight and suggestions in the annual report with regard to the steps that he considers necessary for enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of the office.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european data protection supervisor in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that, for the financial year ended on 31 december 2011, the payments made to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the entitlements to administrative and other expenditure were, in general, free from material error and that the supervisory and control mechanisms in place for administrative and other expenditure effectively ensured the correctness of the payments. notes that the court of auditors advised the edps to request all his staff to submit documents confirming their personal data on a regular basis, ideally on an annual basis, and to put in place a system for the timely review of these documents; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were found during the investigation. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in view of the final report of the european court of auditors on the 2011 budget, i would like to congratulate peter hustinx, european data protection commissioner, on the fact that the court's audit found that administrative and other expenditure was free from material error and that the supervisory and administrative systems functioned effectively. i support the commissioner's report on the 13 eu institutions and bodies based in brussels, which recommends sharing information and best practice with national data protection authorities. these measures are important as the edps also has an important role to play in monitoring the functioning of the institutions and programmes implementing the eu cybersecurity strategy, enisa, the european digital agenda and the european cybercrime centre, thus contributing to ensuring that the proper balance between security and data protection is not compromised.
in writing. − the court found that all payments for the administrative and other expenditure of the data protection commissioner were free from material error and that the systems of supervision and control of administrative and other expenditure examined functioned effectively. in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting a discharge to the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european external action service for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the service in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the european external action service is affected by the closure procedure for the first time, as 2011 was the institution's first full financial year, which gave particular significance to this year's discharge. the final report draws attention to the following points, among others: in 2011 a large number of new recruits were recruited at once, which was achieved by a very costly procedure of selecting 118 out of 8800 applicants. the analysis of the total cost of the recruitment process was not available to the expert committee during the final clearance procedure. as the people's party's rapporteur on the report, i also said in the plenary debate that the problem is also the real estate management of the eeas. in some cases, the cost of real estate leases is skyrocketing. the eeas explains such cases by the characteristics of the local property market, the security situation in the host country. it is particularly important to monitor the management of the service's property in the closing accounts for the coming years, as the new financial regulation allows the service to borrow and the eeas plans to purchase its own property. the issue of geographical balance is also highlighted in the report: member states that joined in 2004 and 2007 are under-represented at all levels of the organisation of the european external action service, and the vacancies should be used to strengthen the institution's geographical balance. it is particularly welcome that it has been included in the discharge report that new employees of the service must declare that they have not previously worked for a state intelligence service. in the plenary vote, i voted in favor of granting the foreign service immunity.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european external action service for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the service in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the european external action service is for the first time in the closure procedure, as 2011 was the first full financial year of the institution. the final accounts report draws attention to two particularly high cost elements: on the one hand, a very large number of new staff were recruited at once in 2011 and, on the other hand, in some cases, the eeas's real estate lease contracts are expensive. the institution explains these with the local property market characteristics and the security situation of the host country, therefore it is particularly important to monitor the property management of the service in the closing reports of the following years. i also consider it important to stress that the institution does not have a geographical balance: the newly acceded member states are under-represented at all levels of the organisation of the european external action service.
in writing. − the external action service was established in 2011 and this year's closure is of particular importance, as it is the first time that the eu external action service has been audited by the committee. i think it is important to point out that the court of auditors did not find any material error. in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the performance, financial management and control of the agencies in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report highlights the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of citizens, and the proper functioning of cooperation between the competent administrations and the eu agencies. it is also important to underline that the parliament, the council and the commission adopted a political agreement on the future and transformation of decentralised agencies in july 2012. in general, all agencies should put greater emphasis on transparency and efficiency, reducing administrative burdens, simplifying their financial rules and managing public procurement and contracts more efficiently and regularly. the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified in the agencies during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the report in the committee vote and in the subsequent plenary vote on 17 april.
in writing. − the court has identified a number of problems affecting several agencies, and it is therefore important that the court continues to pay close attention to the effectiveness of the agencies' financial management, in particular how economically, efficiently and effectively the agencies use their appropriations in carrying out their tasks.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011 of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011. t. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget i. the agency had to recruit most of its staff during its first year of operation, resulting in delayed filling of vacancies thus having a significant impact on the agency's budget implementation rate and delaying estimates of procurement needs, leading to a concentration of procurement procedures by the end of the year, resulting in high levels of transfers in order to comply with the signed legal and budgetary commitments the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit. the commission has decided to grant the discharge at its meeting of 18 march 2013 and to close the accounts for 2011. the vote in the committee and the subsequent vote in the plenary on 17 april supported the granting of the exemption. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court's annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the body of european regulators for electronic communications in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit the committee of experts decided at its meeting of 18 march 2013 to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2011 in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april, i supported the granting of the discharge. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the board of regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the board's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has concluded that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. parliament called on the translation centre to establish a stricter control mechanism within the organisation for the procurement planning process and to introduce streamlined tools that effectively and accurately analyse and control data flows and budget planning. the final report noted that the decrease in the translation centre's budget was due, inter alia, to the centre's newly introduced cost-effective pricing policy and also acknowledged that the importance of data protection had been given special attention by the appointment of a new data protection officer by the translation centre. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011 of the european centre for the development of vocational training. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report notes with satisfaction that the centre provided a gantt chart of all key operational activities in 2011 as previously requested by the discharge authority. . based on the annual report, notes that the performance measurement system has been fully implemented and encourages the centre to further develop the performance measurement system as a complement to its quantitative indicators rather than as a means of assessing the quality of the performance of the centre; the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit. g. decision of the committee of experts of 18 march 2013 on the discharge and closure of accounts for 2011 t. supported the granting of the exemption in the vote in the committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april m
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training in respect of the implementation of the budget for the 2011 financial year.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european police college in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2011. it also noted that the police academy will relocate its current uk headquarters in the first quarter of 2014 and that the commission should therefore consider the possible relocation of the agency to the hague. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − i was pleased to read the court's finding that the transactions detailed in cepol's annual accounts were legal and regular in all material respects. i consider it important to highlight cepol's achievements in introducing measures to dissolve committees and reducing the number of annual meetings of the management board. these actions will facilitate cepol's higher level of operation and informed policy decisions. as you know, the commission proposes to relocate cepol from its current headquarters in bramshill to the hague as of march 2014. this step is said to be able to deepen cepol's cooperation with the european police office, also based in the hague. the issue is still under investigation, but for an organisation with a similarly important mission, cost-effectiveness should not jeopardise cepol's professional autonomy and the full implementation of its primary tasks.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the director of the european police college discharge in respect of the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011. t. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget i. the final report concludes that the agency adopted the revised code of conduct for staff on 1 august 2012, including the conflict of interest rules, in accordance with the recommendations of the court of auditors and the guidelines of the organisation for economic cooperation and development the code of conduct applies to all executives and staff in sensitive positions and to external professionals involved in the agency's core activities. the committee of experts held its meeting on 18 march 2013 on the granting of the discharge and the closure of the accounts for the year 2011 the vote in the committee and the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april also supported the granting of a discharge. i got it.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european aviation safety agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011 the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final accounts report states that it has satisfied itself that the annual accounts of the newly established european banking authority, based in london, for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit the commission has decided to grant the discharge at its meeting of 18 march 2013 and to close the accounts for 2011. the vote in the committee and the subsequent vote in the plenary on 17 april supported the granting of the exemption. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european centre for disease prevention and control in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament approves the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances, following its financial audits, that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. parliament called the attention of the agency to the need to implement appropriate measures to make the recruitment process more transparent and clear, and to the fact that the costs of transfers were very high, contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality. parliament also stressed the importance of this agency for european citizens in terms of disease surveillance, the assessment and communication of current and foreseeable risks of communicable diseases and the collection of european health knowledge. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european chemicals agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report calls on the agency to correct the identified shortcomings, including in the areas of physical assets, recruitment procedures and conflicts of interest. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european chemicals agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. it is important to emphasise that the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has opened internal investigations in several cases within the agency. on the one hand, the executive director of the agency was suspected of conflicts of interest, but after being informed by the court of auditors, the executive director resigned from his membership of the board of trustees within the other organisation. on the other hand, the agency has carried out transactions of dubious outcome, unjustified and unprovable, of large amount. furthermore, it did not correct non-transparent tender procedures in public procurement matters and, although it improved the transparency of our recruitment procedures, contradictions remained and until they were clarified, the expert committee did not propose to grant the exemption, as it had already done in the closing accounts of the financial year 2010. the committee decided at its meeting at the end of march to postpone the presentation of the final accounts, considering that further clarification of the agency's 2011 financial situation was required in order to grant the discharge to the agency. i voted in committee and in plenary to postpone the granting of the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of postponing parliament's decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the community fisheries control agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. calls on the agency to take appropriate steps to avoid any deficiencies and transparency problems in its procurement procedures and to further improve its recruitment procedures; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the cfpo in respect of the implementation of the budget of the cfpo for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european food safety authority in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report draws attention to the fact that the agency has developed complex conflict of interest policies and has organised mandatory sessions on ethics and integrity. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european institute for gender equality in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the court of auditors confirmed that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2011 are reliable in all material respects and present a true and fair view of the institute's financial position as at 31 december 2011 and that the institute's operations and cash flows for the financial year 2011 are in accordance with the financial regulation. furthermore, it notes that the republic of lithuania has undertaken to pay the rent for its relocation from its temporary seat in brussels to the capital of the republic of lithuania, vilnius, until december 2011. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the fact that not only did the european institute for gender equality close the investigated period without flaws in its accountancy, but it also recorded a positive budget outturn while establishing a resource and documentation centre. handling the available financial resources economically and at the same time fulfilling the objectives and tasks imposed on the agency sends a very positive message and sets an example for other eu institutions in times of austerity. this is a strong argument for maintaining the european institute for gender equality.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting of a discharge to the director of the european institute for gender equality in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2011 the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. it is important to note that the annual report shows that in 2011 the authority focused mainly on setting up and expanding its activities. the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit the committee of experts decided at its meeting of 18 march 2013 to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2011 in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april, i supported the granting of the discharge. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011, the financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011 of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit the committee of experts decided at its meeting of 18 march 2013 to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2011 in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april, i supported the granting of the discharge. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european medicines agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. it is important to note that the agency was reminded that it should present to the budgetary control authority a precise timetable for the introduction of a new system of ex ante and ex post controls of declarations of interests and that it should make further efforts to resolve and eliminate conflicts of interest. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. points out the need to improve the observatory's recruitment procedures, to implement the internal audit service's recommendation 8 without delay and to inform the discharge authority of the results achieved; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011 the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors has found that the audits have provided sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit the committee of experts decided at its meeting of 18 march 2013 to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2011 in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april, i supported the granting of the discharge. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european maritime safety agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union on the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court found that the audits had provided sufficient assurance that no appropriate steps had been taken to remedy the lack of transparency in recruitment procedures referred to in the court's 2010 report. in its report, the court reiterates that the agency needs to improve the transparency of these procedures; calls on the agency to inform the discharge authority of the steps taken to address this deficiency; and considers that certain provisions of the staff regulations could impose a serious administrative burden. however, the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit the commission has decided to grant the discharge at its meeting of 18 march 2013 and to close the accounts for 2011. the vote in the committee and the subsequent vote in the plenary on 17 april supported the granting of the exemption. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european network and information security agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the balance of payments proposal under discussion today is a welcome initiative in its essence, aimed at simplifying procedures for financial assistance between the euro area and non-euro area countries. however, amendments and additions were necessary, which were dealt with excellently by mrs hübner in her present report. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that its contents are beyond doubt. we can all see that to overcome the current problems, several building blocks are needed: such as financial stability, strengthening national responsibility, solidarity, achieving sustainable growth. if one of these elements is missing, then the problems we are discussing cannot be solved. the prior agreement will, inter alia, fundamentally increase the transparency and accountability of the procedure for applying for and awarding financial assistance to member states in difficulty and it is essential that the same transparency and accountability be increased for this proposal.
in writing. − i believe it is important that the eu financial safety net for the stability of the euro is not only for the benefit of the euro group countries but also, if necessary, for the benefit of the member states not in the euro. that is why i voted in favour of the initiative to allow member states in difficulty outside the euro area to receive assistance from eu financial resources, such as the european stability mechanism.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european railway agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european court of auditors concluded that it has obtained sufficient assurance from its audits that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. at the same time, i consider it important to emphasise that certain investments had to be cancelled or postponed because of incorrect budgetary forecasts, and that parliament has on several occasions (during the discharge debates for the financial years 2008, 2009 and 2010) drawn the attention of the agency to a greater focus on addressing the problem of carrying over appropriations from one year to the next. as a result of this failure, the committee considers that such a serious breach of the principle of annual budget cannot be accepted in the future and that, therefore, the next time such and similar serious breaches occur, the exemption should be refused. notes furthermore that the agency is aware that the use of the offices in lille and valenciennes for the operation and performance of the agency's tasks reduces efficiency and generates additional costs; the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2011 the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it has obtained sufficient assurance during its audits that the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit the committee of experts decided at its meeting of 18 march 2013 to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2011 in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april, i supported the granting of the discharge. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the european securities and markets authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit the committee of experts decided at its meeting of 18 march 2013 to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2011 in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april, i supported the granting of the discharge. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european training foundation for the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the institution for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular the final audit report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the audit the committee of experts decided at its meeting of 18 march 2013 to grant the discharge and to close the accounts for 2011 in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april, i supported the granting of the discharge. i'm not sure.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european agency for safety and health at work in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the euratom supply agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the court of auditors in its report for the financial year 2011 pointed out that the agency's statute was still not in conformity with article 54 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community. in 2011, the agency did not receive any funding to finance its operation and all its expenditure in the implementation of its budget was covered by the commission, which was an integral part of the commission, contrary to its statute. however, the adoption by the commission of a separate budget line for the agency, covering a significant part of the agency's budget, is a major step forward and a major step towards resolving the agency's problems. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court's annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director-general of the euratom supply agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors' audits have satisfied the authority that the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of eurojust in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2011, the court having determined that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the final report, based on the court of auditors' report, concluded that eurojust, based in the hague, had a positive balance sheet but unfortunately did not report to the discharge authority on the measures adopted and implemented following its 2010 recommendations. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court's annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the administrative director of eurojust in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because this new legislation could have a positive impact on businesses by eliminating double taxation and uncertainty about tax liability. there are currently no eu vat rules on vouchers, which hampers the full potential of the single market. the creation of a consistent legal framework can also help to close any loopholes that allow companies to engage in tax avoidance behaviour that exploits differences between member states.
in writing. − at present, there are no eu vat rules for transactions relating to vouchers, and in the absence of these common rules, member states have developed their own procedures. the double taxation resulting from the lack of consistency may and does hamper commercial solutions seeking to exploit the opportunities offered by the single market, and the unintended non-taxation resulting from similar reasons gives rise to abuses. the primary objective of my proposal is therefore to establish clear, harmonised eu rules on the tax treatment of vouchers. by clarifying and harmonising the eu provisions on the taxation of vouchers, this proposal will also significantly facilitate the operation of loyalty programmes and gift vouchers.
in writing. − the amendment of the common vat rules is primarily an attempt to tackle the problem of double taxation and tax evasion. it is clear that inconsistencies in the tax rules of the member states are a major obstacle to exploiting the opportunities offered by the single market. clarification and harmonisation of the union vat system for vouchers would be in the interests of both consumers and businesses. i support the proposal to provide for a single taxation system for all types of vouchers. a common european legal framework is needed to help achieve an efficient and barrier-free internal market, while fully respecting the sovereignty of the member states in tax matters.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european police office (europol) in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2011. 2011 was the second year for the office to operate as a european union agency in financial terms. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − i was pleased to read the court's finding that the transactions relating to europol's annual accounts were legal and regular. although the implementation of europol's draft budget is also dependent on external factors, and also taking into account that the handover of the new headquarters has made the implementation of the 2011 budget even more difficult, i would welcome the introduction by europol of measures as soon as possible to improve the ratio of both administrative and operational expenditure. the aim is to enable europol to make the best use of its resources in its key role in the fight against organised crime, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, illegal immigration, sexual exploitation of children and cybercrime. i would therefore support the creation of a financial package (budget) for europol to ensure that the renewed structures and new competences are effectively implemented.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european police office in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european union agency for fundamental rights in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court of auditors concluded that it had obtained reasonable assurances during its audits that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. it is important to emphasise that the european court of justice dealt with three cases in 2012 that threaten the agency's reputation and therefore draws the agency's attention to the fact that, in addition to initiating and conducting internal investigations, detailed information to the discharge authority is also key. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european union agency for infrastructure in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in the context of the closure of the accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court stated that the audits had provided it with assurance as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the 2010 discharge recommendations were accepted by the agency and several site visits were carried out in 2011, with a margin of error of less than 1%, and further site visits are planned for 2013. the commission was surprised to learn that the accounting officer continued to approve the agency's accounting system in the financial year under review and regretted that internal control weaknesses had been revealed in the management of tangible assets. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting of a discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european gnss agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the court found that the audits provided it with reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. however, it is of concern that the audit carried out by the external audit firm revealed that the ex post controls carried out revealed several problems with the cost statements submitted by the beneficiaries. the final audit report concludes that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no major deficiencies were identified during the investigation. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. i supported the granting of the discharge in the vote in committee and in the subsequent vote in plenary on 17 april.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the executive director of the european gnss agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the artemis joint undertaking in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the discharge report underlines that the joint undertaking took steps in 2011 to develop and implement more efficient financial, accounting and administrative processes. the report also states that the business continuity plan established in 2011 and the provisions introduced in the area of it security are not yet sufficient and further work is needed to finalise the disaster recovery plan. the report acknowledges that the annual activity report provides information on the results of the activities of the joint undertaking but does not include an assessment of efficiency and effectiveness. the final accounts report draws attention to the fact that the comprehensive review of the financial situation of the embedded computing systems did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's granting the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the clean sky joint undertaking in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the final report draws attention to the fact that the management of the joint undertaking did not fully implement the transformation of the internal control and financial information systems in 2011 and that further work is needed to improve the effectiveness of the ex-ante control procedures used for validating cost statements. the final audit report concluded that the financial and compliance reviews of the aeronautical and environmental projects did not reveal any serious deficiencies. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the eniac joint undertaking in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report reiterates its call on the joint undertaking's management to implement the transformation of the internal control and financial information systems as soon as possible, as their deficiencies are causing errors and delays in the preparation of the financial reporting. the final accounts report draws attention to the fact that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and no major deficiencies were identified beyond those mentioned. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the eniac joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union in respect of the fuel cell and hydrogen joint undertaking in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the discharge report welcomes the findings of the court of auditors that the 2011 accounts of the joint undertaking accurately reflect in all respects its true financial position. it also urges the management of the joint undertaking to take all necessary measures to limit the cash-flow to the level specified in the financing agreements concluded with the commission. the final audit report concludes that the financial and regularity reviews of the joint undertaking have not revealed any serious deficiencies. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out, in the context of the closure procedure for 2011, a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the joint undertaking for research on innovative medicines. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the report notes with concern that the joint undertaking's governing board adopted the budget and its implementation plan for the year 2011 only on 4 april 2011. the report also highlights that the joint undertaking's executive director issued a letter of confidence in february 2012 without having any efficiency information on the ex-post control strategy. the final report draws attention to the fact that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and did not reveal any major deficiencies in the area of the innovative medicines research initiative. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the 2011 accounts procedure, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting discharge to the executive director of the innovative medicines research initiative joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the closure procedure for 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the discharge report welcomes the findings of the court of auditors that the 2011 accounts of the joint undertaking accurately reflect its financial situation in all respects. it further stresses that, as already mentioned in the court's 2010 report, the joint undertaking needs to step up its efforts to increase competition, as the number of tenders received for the operational procurement procedures signed in 2011 was still low, with an average of two, while the average number of proposals for grants was one. the final audit report draws attention to the fact that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and did not reveal any major deficiencies in the areas examined. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the director of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2011, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the sesar joint undertaking in the context of the closure procedure for the financial year 2011. the committee's primary task is to monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget. the discharge report welcomes the fact that the business processes of the joint undertaking have been audited by an independent external auditor and that the internal control systems are functioning effectively. notes that the joint undertaking was responsible for 310 r&d&i projects by the end of 2011, of which 282 are in the implementation phase; the final audit report draws attention to the fact that the financial audit was conducted in an orderly manner and did not reveal any major deficiencies in the areas examined. the board decided to grant the discharge at its march meeting, closing the 2011 accounts. i voted in committee and in plenary to grant the discharge.
in writing. − in the context of the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament's discharge to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i have strongly and resolutely supported the eu's ratification of the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance, as this would speed up the enforcement of child support and other family maintenance obligations and the action and enforcement against debtors established in third countries. the report now adopted allows the deposit of the instrument approved, as is customary in the case of international conventions, until the approval decision is received from the national authorities of each member state. they expect each member state to adopt an effective and rapid procedure to enable the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance to enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. − the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance provides european citizens with a very useful instrument to enforce their rights against non-paying debtors who reside in third countries. the 2011 accession of the european union as a legal entity to the 2007 convention will be a great step towards the realisation of cross-border child support obligations, but an instrument of approval must be deposited for it to be fully applicable. this involves particular amendments to the convention’s annexes that must be finalised in a rapid procedure, to enable the convention to enter into force in the whole of the european union. i hope that these procedural steps will be taken as soon as possible.
in writing. − the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance was signed on behalf of the european union by tibor navracsics, the then eu president, minister of administration and justice of hungary in 2011. the convention establishes a common legal framework between eu and non-eu countries to enable authorities to cooperate more effectively in the enforcement of maintenance claims and to prevent debtors from evading their obligations by leaving the territory of the union. it also provides free legal aid in child support cases and simplifies procedures for the recognition and enforcement of court decisions. i therefore vote in favour of the convention being brought into force as soon as possible throughout the european union in the interests of citizens.
i congratulate mr. roucek on his excellent report. as a hungarian, i am particularly pleased that our new neighbour will become a member of the union. despite the union's deepest crisis, enlargement has not stopped. let this be an incentive for serbia and other western balkan states. today's plenary debate on the hungarian constitution should be a lesson for croatia. the common core values, the copenhagen criteria, must be fully respected after accession. pre-accession monitoring works well in this house too, as this report demonstrates, but we need to establish democratic monitoring of member states now. i hope that the conflict between the two national oil companies, mol and ina, can be resolved as soon as possible. it is also very important that the rights of serbs, hungarians and other minorities living in croatia are fully guaranteed. and as mr kukan suggested, let's curb nationalism everywhere in central europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, this is an excellent report and i congratulate the rapporteur, jelko kacin. the cooperation has also been excellent. i agree with very much of what has been said so far in this debate. much of the focus on serbia has been on the country’s attitude to kosovo. this is proper, of course, given that serbia’s european future is conditional on finding an arrangement with kosovo. in this connection, the status of the serbs of kosovo is central. these people have become citizens of kosovo without having a choice about this, so the kosovo citizenship concept must be inclusive enough to allow them to live as they would prefer. the relaunched belgrade-pristina dialogue, if it is to be successful, must find a solution to this question. otherwise, the serbian minority will be a long-term source of tension in kosovo. the kosovo issue, however, should not be allowed to deflect attention from a number of other serious problems that serbia has to tackle. one of these is the nature of legality, the administration of the law, the independence of the judiciary, the quality of law enforcement and respect for procedures. in these areas, despite the efforts made, much remains to be done before serbia attains its objective: a rule-of-law state. a particular problem is represented by article 359 of the criminal code, now transposed to article 234, which has been used to dispossess entrepreneurs on political grounds. i would like to add that all of us who are involved in serbia have become very familiar with the number ‘359’. thirdly – and mr kacin has also mentioned this – there is the drive towards centralisation. given the loss of kosovo, this may be understandable, but it is the wrong solution. the measures, both political and legal, against the autonomy of vojvodina are a cause for concern. the jacobean answer is not an answer in the 21st century. serbia should accept that democratic norms point towards greater decentralisation, not the opposite. a more relaxed attitude will also be helpful in inter-ethnic relations by allowing solutions on the ground to emerge where appropriate. where central standards are essential, however, is in the uniformity of procedures and the general rules of democracy, transparency, accountability and self-limitation.
i have a dream! and this is that the hungarian government, the hungarian state, will prevent serbia from joining the european union until the rights and autonomy of our brothers living in the separated hungarian territories are fully guaranteed. as we should have done with the romanian accession. my second dream - if the first one is not realized - is that we will finally read the name of the hungarian national community in these reports on the serbian accession process. in order to make mr füle, commissioner for accession, feel the importance of this and to provide him with information, i would like to hand over a very well-documented book after my speech, the book by antal bozocki, a human rights lawyer and a lawyer working for the national human rights defence service, which deals in detail with the change in ethnic proportions, the hungarian beatings, the temerini boys' cases, the demolitions and the 15 specific demands that hungarian parties, civil society organisations and human rights defenders are making to the serbian state in connection with accession. i would ask the commissioner for accession to listen to them, to give them the opportunity to express their demands and their views, and to make this book - which is only partly in english, but a substantial part in hungarian - available to them. it contains a chronology of violations from the year 12 and a cd from previous years. thank you very much, and i'd like to give this to you.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, and my fellow members of parliament, that's a good report, mr kacin. and now, in addition to stressing the importance of the kosovo-serbia dialogue, i would like to draw attention to another aspect and thank my colleague, mr kacin, for his openness to accepting our amendments this year, which are all important for the serbian population, and especially for the hungarians in vojvodina. for example, the unresolved issue of strengthening the legal status and funding of the autonomous province of vojvodina, the need for a minority presence in the state administration, the judiciary, the police, and the provision of quality mother tongue education. it is important that the european commission's report on serbia addresses the concerns and concerns of minority communities in order to avoid the earlier accession experience. it is argued that the interests of these national communities are only temporarily taken into account by the candidate countries until accession. i therefore consider it important that existing legislation is applied and that the commission monitors compliance with it. i am personally pleased that the text on which we are voting tomorrow has incorporated the importance of historic reconciliation and the commitment of the two presidents of the republic of hungary and the republic of serbia. it is therefore essential that the authorities investigate [the cases] without applying double standards and provide justice in the ethnically mixed region of vojvodina, where unfortunately incidents have once again increased, many of them involving young people of hungarian nationality. they can jeopardize mutual trust and the possibility of peaceful ethnic coexistence. this is very important to ensure that european principles and values are not undermined. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
it's a trick question. i would like to ask my colleague gál kinga where he saw the expression "the rights of former hungarians" in the report? i think i've read the report quite thoroughly, and i apologize if i'm wrong. there is indeed talk of vajdaság, but i have not seen any reference to the rights of the hungarians of vojvodina and the question of autonomy. do what you can to help me find him.
that's a two-card answer. articles and paragraphs which state that the presence of national minorities is considered necessary in the public administration, the judiciary and the police. when it comes to quality mother tongue education for national minorities, and the provision of textbooks for this purpose, and the financial support of national councils, and when it comes to the so-called historical reconciliation in the serbian context, and the commitment of the president of the hungarian republic to this, i think that the hungarians in the former yugoslavia can be understood calmly, certainly.
i would like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the commissioner on their achievements and efforts. we all hope that today's meeting with the serbian and kosovar prime ministers will bring the agreement closer. today's meeting was on the situation of the serb community in northern kosovo, which is a particularly sensitive issue. serbia rightly expects its neighbours including kosovo to respect the rights of the serb community living on their territory, to act against discrimination. serbia has an obligation to ensure the rights of minorities living on its territory, to stop ethnic violence, attacks against its citizens of hungarian nationality, and to ensure that they are not left unpunished. we also expect the serbian government to end the legal uncertainty surrounding the autonomy of vojvodina and to respect the autonomy guaranteed by the constitution. legal certainty and good neighbourly relations are key to serbia's european integration process. implementing political agreements, building trust is the basis for moving forward. a good example of confronting the legacy of war is the regional network of civil society organisations that have set themselves the task of collecting facts about war crimes and human rights violations - this will contribute to reconciliation.
mr president, firstly, despite the fact that no agreement could be reached last week, i welcome the ongoing dialogue and negotiations between pristina and belgrade. kosovo is obviously a very sensitive issue for serbia. we have to acknowledge that serbia has come a long way, as it is ready for the first time to discuss a sustainable deal for kosovo. the fact that, for example, the mayor of belgrade, dragan dilas, expresses his full support for the negotiations makes me hope that a sustainable and pragmatic solution can be found. so i can only support the continuation of this crucial dialogue, not only with a view to the european future of both countries but also for the peace and stability of the whole region. secondly, i would like to commend serbia for having signed the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women a year ago, and i strongly hope that it will be followed by concrete action at national level. gender discrimination continues to be prevalent on the labour market, however, and i would encourage the serbian authorities to persevere in their efforts in this direction. i should like to thank the commission and the rapporteurs for doing a great job.
i fully agree with the elements in mr kacin's report which point to the emergence of nationalist tendencies in serbia. this is a very important signal for the serbian ruling parties to take action against the grandiose nationalism, against ethnic-based atrocities, including the hungarian beatings. it is equally important that serbia will not join the european union if it undermines the autonomy of vojvodina, which is in line with the basic concept of european regionalism. finally, i would like to draw attention to the need to find a lasting solution for the serbs in northern kosovo and the serbs in the southern kosovo who live in the diaspora. the example of romania and slovakia shows that in the absence of broad autonomy, legal guarantees and international controls, minority issues can be regulated at any time.
allow me to make a brief comment. if we talk about a war-free europe, it doesn't particularly affect young people. but if the same sentence is said in serbia, it has a huge significance. i have received a motion for a resolution (see minutes), tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 18 april 2013 at 11.30. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after the entry into force of the agreement:
we welcome the belgrade-pristina dialogue and hope that decisive agreements will soon be reached on one of the most sensitive issues, the situation of the serb community in northern kosovo. however, we believe it is important that the dialogue within civil society should be of a similar intensity. people need to understand what's at stake in negotiations, what happens if there's no agreement, and they need to be engaged early in the negotiations to trust the institutions and believe that they represent their interests. it's not enough to pass laws to protect religious and cultural heritage, it's not enough to make political agreements, the most important question for people is whether these are implemented, whether they feel the change, the improvement in their own lives. the fight against corruption and organised crime is also a matter of trust in institutions. europol and interpol need to be more closely involved in the fight against corruption. i support the proposal to include kosovo as an observer in the activities of interpol and europol. eulex can also play an important role in this cooperation. i sincerely hope that we will soon see progress in the areas that are key to visa liberalisation. i would like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the commissioner on their efforts so far. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask my colleague, mr göncz kinga, whether he considers that the principles of the protection and enforcement of the rights of the serb community in kosovo are fully applicable to the hungarian community, the hungarian national community, in relation to serbia, as discussed earlier? do you see a difference or do you accept that the hungarian community, torn apart by an unjust peace dictate, should also express concern about its rights, or should the same, consistent principles of law be applied?
that's a two-card answer. when we were talking about serbia, i said in my speech that serbia has the right to see the rights of the serbian community in kosovo guaranteed. but it must also ensure that the rights of national minorities living in its territory are guaranteed. of course, it's very difficult to draw parallels between historical events. the serbian dialogue in kosovo certainly has the particularity that the institutions of the european union are providing very strong support in the background to this dialogue, are directly involved in its resolution and are helping to mediate it. i think that guarantee is very important. and it's certain that if an agreement is made here, it will affect other areas in the future.
i have received a motion for a resolution (see minutes), tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 18 april 2013 at 11.30. we're going to take a two- or three-minute technical break. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland on the participation of iceland in the union programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) '. the following table is added:
madam president, as i was co-rapporteur on this very important tool, i am of course very pleased to talk about it right now. this is a revolutionary tool for transnational participatory democracy, one that enables citizens’ voices to be heard at a time when they need it most. the number of initiatives submitted so far, their european aspect, and the fact that they represent new ideas makes me feel optimistic. i feel that european citizens have really started to see its added value. however, these positive developments should not hide the technical difficulties faced by the organisers so far, and the remaining challenges. of course, we knew when drafting the regulation that we were entering uncharted territories, since such a tool had never before been developed on such a large scale. the problems with the online collection, especially with the online servers, have been partially resolved with the help of the commission. but we have to find a sustainable solution. the same goes when it comes to finding the right balance between data protection and user-friendliness. i know some people are asking for the regulation to be revised, but i believe it is too soon. we need a full assessment before engaging in such a process. i welcome the efforts made by the commission so far, such as their decision to extend the 12-month collection period for signatures for the first ecis, which were confronted with the biggest technical problems. i want to underline the importance of equal treatment here. there is a lot that can be done before the revision in 2015, enhancing the dialogue with organisers and civil society – in other words, taking into account their experiences, making online collection more accessible and opening the discussion about a centralised process. moreover, we need to reduce as much as possible the cost of an eci and improve our communication. too many citizens still do not know about the existence of the eci. that is unacceptable. we need improved cooperation between the european institutions and the information offices but also more cooperation from the member states. i was disappointed, for example, that one sole member state was blocking the decision to extend the collection period. let us work together in order to make the eci the democratic success it should be. equal treatment for me as well.
in writing. − the visa facilitation procedure has been in force since 1 january 2008 and has proved to be extremely successful, with a very low rejection rate of only 3.3% over the last 5 years. the main elements of the current changes include the welcome extension of the simplified visa regime to ukrainian citizens attending sporting and educational events, international exhibitions and conferences. this is also a significant contribution to eu tourism, as the number of ukrainian visitors increased by 40% between 2010 and 2012 compared to hungary alone, and this is now expected to grow even more dynamically. the commission has also proposed to amend the rules on the application of the emergency fee, so that biometric passport holders can benefit from this preferential scheme. finally, it should be noted that the revision and further relaxations are extremely important for hungary, since there is a hungarian minority in transcarpathia of 150 thousand people. these measures also help their relations with their motherland, since a small border crossing permit or a hungarian passport is not a solution for everyone. all these positive changes made me happy to vote in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. − on thursday, i was pleased to vote in favour of the moraes report on the amendment of the visa agreement between the european union and ukraine. the main objective is to further simplify the procedure for issuing visas for ukrainian and transcarpathian hungarian journalists, civilians and young people, who will now have easier access to uniform eu visas for short-term stays. the amendment initiated in 2011 was approved by the council in 2012, to which the european parliament gave its consent by this vote. cheaper, faster and simpler visa issuance is particularly important for the mobility of young people. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights since the early 1990s, and has been active in the field of human rights since the early 2000s. many studies have shown that free movement is the most important achievement of the union for european citizens, for young people. today, citizens of ukraine, including transcarpathian hungarians, are one step closer to this community achievement.
in writing. − the visa facilitation agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova could facilitate cooperation between the two parties in the fields of economy, culture and public administration. the long-term objective of the visa liberalisation agreement is to ensure effective border management, crime prevention, management of migration flows and peaceful cooperation with neighbouring countries. i support the approval of the agreement as it provides an opportunity to strengthen the relations between the union and the republic of moldova.
in writing. − as the economic and social policies of the eu continue to become more and more complex, there is growing need for reliable statistical data on the trends and dynamics of european demography. the accuracy and substantiation of such data define a long range of eu measures. the decision-making procedure of the union itself relies on the highest possible quality demographical data, but they are also an essential indicator for measuring the sustainability of public finances. time series publications of national statistical offices and the eurostat - for example on life expectancy, fertility rates and age dependency ratios - are a crucial instrument for adjusting social inclusion and development policies as well as for the monitoring of the achievements of all strategies aiming at social inclusion and cohesion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on croatia's readiness for the eu, as i believe that croatia is ready for membership and will take its rightful place in our community by joining on 1 july 2013. the ratification of their accession treaties has already taken place in most eu member states and the last three member states should make this gesture towards the croatian people as soon as possible. the lessons of this weekend's croatian european parliament elections also illustrate the importance of this, as the almost eight-year extension of the accession process has strengthened the eurosceptic camp and the indifference of the people. croatia's accession should continue to serve as an example in the region and delaying its accession sends the wrong message to other transition states. overall, croatia has done an excellent job in its efforts to join, and i look forward to working with my croatian colleagues starting in july this year.
in writing. − although croatia has managed significant improvement with regard to the protection of minorities in general, the tens of thousands of croatian roma are separated from the majority of society by huge gaps in education, health care, employment, housing and social protection as well as in their access to personal documents in many cases. looking very much forward to welcoming croatia as the 28th member state on 1 july, i also truly hope that the government will sign up for the european framework for national roma inclusion strategies, submit their own 10 year national inclusion strategy to the european commission and - in cooperation with croatian local authorities - launch complex and specifically tailored programmes to foster the social inclusion of roma.
in writing. − the turkish government's efforts to develop a national model for pre-school education services as well as the increase both in the number of pre-school teachers and in the enrolment rates of primary and secondary schools is to be highly welcomed. however, further steps must be taken to enhance the educational performance of children as well as to combat early school-leaving and absenteeism in disadvantaged families, especially in the case of roma communities in the eastern regions of the country. urban renewal measures are also commendable, but the government and local authorities must pay attention for transparent implementation, avoiding the displacement of communities in poverty and furthermore to accompany such measures with complex development programmes covering also employment and education.
in writing. − i support the report which assesses the progress made by montenegro in accession negotiations since 2012. i welcome the holding of the early parliamentary elections in a peaceful, free and fair manner, in accordance with international standards. i've been involved in election observation myself, so i believe that fair elections are an important condition of democracy. i agree with the new negotiating approach of the union, following the example of croatia, whereby the core issues of the chapters on justice, fundamental rights, and the area of justice, freedom and security are addressed at an early stage of the negotiations. the outcome of the first accession conference in brussels also shows that the country is on the right track towards eu membership. if montenegro continues to work conscientiously to meet the accession conditions, it will be able to join the next round of enlargement after croatia.
in writing. − although there has been some progress with regard to the protection and inclusion of minorities in montenegro, further measures need to be taken to combat discrimination, to improve their living conditions, access to social security, health, education, housing and employment services and to ensure their proper participation in public services with special regard to the roma, ashkali and egyptian (rae) population. the government must sign up for the european framework for national roma inclusion strategies by launching and submitting a 10 year national inclusion strategy after the expiration of the current 2008-2012 strategy to improve the status of the rae communities. occurrences of such serious violations of human dignity as trafficking in human beings must be more vigorously addressed and authorities must strengthen the capacities of law enforcement and judicial authorities dealing with human trafficking as well as reinforce the identification and protection of victims, especially children and women. the situation of children in poverty and living in distant rural areas without access to basic services need to be effectively addressed and gender equality legislation needs also to be further developed, with special regard to the recently adopted strategy for implementing the law on protection from family violence.
in writing. − i agree with the report's findings that the country's elevation to candidate status has strengthened its european commitment. serbia has taken steps to settle its relationship with kosovo, but it must continue to do so, as this issue could be a fundamental obstacle to its european integration. the serb-kosovo dialogue should be continued under the union's mediation and a solution to the situation of the serbs in northern kosovo should be found as soon as possible. i support the opening of accession negotiations, provided they create the conditions for maintaining good neighbourly relations which are essential to joining the community. i stress that the new government must take further steps to protect minorities. all minorities must be guaranteed equal treatment and wider social integration. they must prevent all forms of inter-ethnic violence. in addition, serbia should respect the constitutional rights of media in minority languages and the right to operate regional public radio and television should also apply in vojvodina.
in writing. − the socio-economic situation of the serbian roma population has slightly improved in the past years and the support for registration for 'legally invisible' persons is an important step forward. however, taking into consideration the continuation of ethnic discrimination, social exclusion and high unemployment, more concentrated and targeted efforts are needed to alleviate the marginalization of roma and the existing anti-discrimination legislation must be also fully harmonized with eu policies. the gender gap between the situation of roma women and men is particularly wide in serbia, so a special focus must be placed on improving the situation of women in integration programmes on the one hand, and the social inclusion of roma should be incorporated into the strategy aiming at the equality between women and men. the implementation of the social welfare law is to be welcomed, but the situation of poor children and especially that of roma children is a cause for concern, since there are more children in care than in previous years, and the number of roma children in special schools and disabled children in institutions has not diminished.
in writing. − the draft report on serbia draws attention to serious phenomena, but in a hamis manner it nevertheless claims that serbia adequately fulfils the membership criteria. i would like to quote from a european parliament resolution last year, the findings are largely echoed today: corruption is systemic, the serbian authorities censor the media the privatisation of many large state-owned companies is illegal witnesses are intimidated in the war crimes witness protection programme, the serbian president denies the srebrenica genocide the powers of the national minority councils are illegally taken away. how could belgrade meet the criteria in the face of these facts? the motion categorically silences physical terror and discrimination against the indigenous southern hungarian minority! the case of the hungarian youths in temerini, who were sentenced to 11 and 15 years by a serbian court for beating up an attacking serbian drug dealer and were tortured. since then, more hungarian youths have been victims of the conception procedure, illegally held in pre-trial detention for months, while their serb attackers are mostly free. several serb war criminals convicted of genocide have served only six or seven years, and in luxury prisons in the west! in the south, which is now under serbian rule, the quiet ethnic cleansing continues in the form of settlements, with no promise of hungarian autonomy. the report, while containing factual findings, is entirely untrue, and i reject it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on kosovo's european integration process. the settlement of the situation in serbia and kosovo is an important area of the eu's common foreign policy. i am a politician from a member state which has always supported the rule of law in kosovo, its european integration aspirations, peace in the balkans and, at the same time, the recognition of kosovo's independence. it is therefore very gratifying that, despite the views of the five eu member states which do not recognise kosovo, the commission has offered the prospect of concluding an association agreement. the political feedback from kosovo is also welcome, indicating that the country is ready for negotiations. the eu-mediated dialogue in serbia and kosovo is essential for the integration of serbia and kosovo into the eu, and i therefore stress its continuation and the respect of the agreements reached by both sides. the country must also take further steps to achieve visa liberalisation, i.e. it must meet the requirements of the roadmap.
in writing. − the situation of kosovar roma remains of concern. organised crime, and more specifically trafficking and exploitation of women and underage persons for sexual exploitation or forced begging is still widespread. kosovar authorities - including both law enforcement and the judiciary - must take much more vigorous actions against human trafficking originating from or passing through the country, with special regard to the pristina airport, which many researches identify as the weakest link in the illegal business chain. domestic violence continues to thrive and the access to education and the drop-out rate of roma children is of high concern. the convention on the rights of the child must be fully implemented and much more comprehensive and targeted action is needed for the inclusion of the roma minority than the so called "forty actions" currently in place.
in writing. – the spectacular economic development of vietnam and the opening of its markets should not hide the very preoccupying situation of freedom of expression we have been witnessing in this country. the imprisonment of bloggers, journalists and human rights activists, the restrictions imposed on freedom of religion as well as the high rate of executions by death sentence demonstrate the heavy climate of repression faced by vietnamese citizens. i would therefore urge the vietnamese authorities to fully implement the recommendations agreed in 2009 during the un human rights council, especially since vietnam aspires to a seat on this council by 2014. moreover, since negotiations on a comprehensive free trade agreement with the eu were launched in 2012, i would urge the eu to take the human rights situation into consideration. we have to use this dialogue, and the discussion with other asean members, to put pressure on the vietnamese government to address the concerns. the new constitution in preparation should reflect true commitment in terms of civil liberties and fundamental rights.
(the first part of the speech was not recorded due to a technical problem.) ...and despite continuously developing economic relations, relations between the eu and kazakhstan are hardly smooth. it is a good sign that we must from time to time deal with the human rights situation in kazakhstan within the walls of this house. kazakhstan is becoming more ambitious in its international politics, as evidenced by its membership of the un human rights council. but these aspirations must also come with greater responsibility, and the commitment that emerges in international relations must also emerge at the national level, within national borders. the eu's foreign policy cannot be based on economic cooperation alone. we must hold all our partner countries accountable for respecting universal human rights. furthermore, as a social democrat politician, i find it unacceptable to restrict the functioning of trade unions and to violate the fundamental rights of workers. i am convinced that the security of fundamental civil and political rights would not only strengthen economic relations between the eu and kazakhstan, but could also play an important role in the security of the region... (the president interrupted the member.)
i'd like to congratulate the reporter. i agree that if the gas and electricity markets are to be linked at european level, renewables must also be included. moreover, we support renewable energy sources not only with national resources but also with european legislation. i believe that the system of aid should be restructured in such a way that the exploitation of renewables is not hampered by the budgetary situation of individual member states. i would therefore support the eib's support of companies through funds that circulate through partners in the member states. we need data at european level, because this is the only way to see the technological advantages that exist, the usefulness of r & d resources and also the potential distortions. i have already stressed this in my own report. although i have a problem with binding targets in general, in this case it is a means of creating a common legal basis, which is why i support the setting of a binding target. this gives us a direction of the vector, even if we do not know its exact size, since member states are free to decide on the energy mix. finally, mr. president, i would remind you that we can stretch as long as our blankets last, we can go as far as the population's carrying capacity allows.
the fact that energy prices have increased by 38% since 2010, especially in the new member states, is a major burden for many european consumers. i therefore welcome the fact that mr reul's report pays particular attention to the need to increase support for people with low incomes. this approach differs significantly from the practice of the current hungarian government. i agree that we need sustainable energy efficiency solutions, investments that keep utility bills down. that's what the panel program for 250,000 families in my country served under the socialist governments. it is regrettable that the share of renewable energy in hungary has not increased significantly since 2010. as the author of the biogas report, i know that the main obstacle to the spread of renewable energy today is the high cost of the technologies, and that is why it is crucial to encourage research and development in europe. among other things, mr reul suggested that the european institute of innovation and technology, based in budapest, be involved in this work. i think the report is forward-looking in its idea of the union supporting renewable energy cooperatives. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the eu's energy imports are not sustainable in the long term: we currently spend €400 billion a year, or more than €1 billion a day, on them. in the future, this will probably increase. imported energy can be substantially replaced by clean, renewable energy produced within the eu. the eu's renewable energy policy is a success story that deserves to be continued. it is also necessary to decide now on its continuation beyond 2020 because investments need a long-term, predictable policy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. the eu could easily produce substantially more renewable energy than its 30% share, which is why i support a target of more than 30% by 2030. i also agree that a longer-term objective is urgently needed, one that provides a predictable future for the industry by 2050. renewable energy has a strong support from eu citizens and can help households reduce their energy bills. the main reason for this is that renewable energy technology has undergone tremendous development in recent times. there are several renewable energy sources that are cheaper for consumers than fossil fuels, such as biomass heating from gas. the use of renewable energy in industry and agriculture, as well as in international trade, will make the eu more competitive.
in writing. the promotion of renewable energy is of strategic importance for europe's competitiveness. the use of green energy not only benefits from a climate protection perspective, but also reduces the union's fossil energy imports and stimulates the economy. thanks to the efforts made so far, the use of renewable energy is growing at a planned rate, with the expectation that by 2020 20% of europe's energy consumption will be covered by renewable energy sources. the increase in green energy is also creating unexpected problems for energy market players. the increasing share of solar and wind energy in the grid, which is subject to weather-related fluctuations, poses a new challenge for transmission system operators in terms of security of supply. in several member states, the rapid growth of renewable energy generation is also hampered by the inability of national grid development investments to keep pace. delayed infrastructure developments increase the risk of transmission networks becoming overloaded, causing disruption to energy supply. in the absence of adequate infrastructure, renewable energy production not only burdens the national grid but also the transmission system of neighbouring member states, causing significant losses to market players in those member states. further infrastructure development and closer eu cooperation are needed to address the problems that have arisen. this is the only way to ensure that renewable energy production does not become the driving force behind the creation of the single energy market, but becomes a success story for the union.
i congratulate my colleague ivo belet on a job well done. let me highlight perhaps the most important of the many important areas, the prevention of accidents, which can be largely prevented by strict regulation and, of course, by compliance with the rules, but we must be prepared for the fact that, despite all our efforts, accidents can occur, with the direct consequences of natural disasters. in the context of natural disasters, the report also highlights the need to strengthen the european union's capacity to respond to disasters or to prepare for them. this is in line with my colleague mr áder's earlier proposal to set up an industrial accident insurance scheme. my colleague jános áder, now president of the republic of hungary, has made a proposal based on the lessons of the red-hot disaster in hungary, which can help with the settlement of industrial disasters by providing rapid and effective financial assistance. i think that's what we need to focus on here, and we need to focus on how to safely and quickly prevent these situations.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 21 may 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the voluntary permanent relocation scheme of the union, tabled by mr juan fernando lópez aguilar on behalf of the committee on citizens' rights, home affairs and justice. the commission shall be assisted by the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed.
on behalf of the author (mr lópez aguilar). − mr president, mr lópez aguilar has asked me as vice-chair to take the floor on his behalf as chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). on 21 february the libe committee voted on an oral question to be addressed to the commission. the libe committee is concerned about the absence so far of any initiative by the commission relating to the establishment of a voluntary permanent relocation scheme. allow me to remind you briefly of the history of relocation and the importance that our parliament has always attached to relocation, especially in the context of intra-eu solidarity. relocation is the process whereby beneficiaries of international protection are transferred from one member state to another member state, where they will immediately be granted equivalent protection. it is an expression of solidarity for member states that face specific and disproportionate pressure on their asylum and reception system, due in particular to their geographic and demographic situation. in october 2008 the european council endorsed the concept of intra-eu relocation of beneficiaries of international protection. in may 2009, the european commissioner for justice and home affairs, at that time jacques barrot, launched the proposal for a pilot project for relocation from malta, called eurema. it was the first multilateral intra-eu relocation initiative. in view of the influx of asylum seekers from libya and the pressure faced by malta in april 2011, on a proposal from commissioner cecilia malmström this pilot project was extended. the european asylum support office (easo), moreover, has among its tasks to promote, facilitate and coordinate exchanges of information and other activities related to relocation within the union. in its communication in december 2011 on enhanced intra-eu solidarity, the commission expressed again its strong support for relocation of beneficiaries of international protection within the union and undertook to propose a voluntary permanent relocation scheme in 2012, subject to a further impact assessment by the easo. the impact assessment, delivered as a fact-finding report on intra-eu relocation activities from malta, was concluded by easo in 2012. in its conclusion on 8 march 2012, the council clearly stated that further steps on the voluntary relocation within the eu of beneficiaries of international protection should be examined and taken in light of the lessons learnt. the justice and home affairs council of 25 and 26 october 2012 informally discussed the whole issue of the eurema project. in its resolution of 11 september 2012 on enhanced intra-eu solidarity in the field of asylum, parliament called for a proposal for a permanent intra-eu relocation mechanism. it urged the commission to give consideration in its legislative proposal to the use of an eu distribution key for relocation of beneficiaries of international protection, based on appropriate indicators. since then, however, there have been no signs that the commission is ready to come forward with its promised proposal for a voluntary, permanent union relocation scheme. my question is simple and straightforward: when does the commission intend to publish such a proposal to fulfil its commitment of december 2011?
i have been informed by the secretariat that ms metsola is our new member from malta. this will be her first intervention, so i congratulate her. ms metsola, you have the floor for one and a half minutes.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, may 21. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
joint debate on the following report and recommendation: report by andrew duff on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs on the draft protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to the czech republic (article 48 (3) of the treaty on european union) [00091/2011 - c7-0385/2011 to 2011/0817 (nle)) (a7-0174/2013) and recommendation by andrew duff on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs: proposal for a european council decision on the convening of a convention to be established in order to annex the protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to the czech republic to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on the functioning of the european union [00091/2011 to c7-038/2016 to 2011/0818 (nle)) (a7-0282/2012)
on behalf of the ppe group. – i will continue in english. my thanks to mr duff for all the work that he has put in, and with whose exposé i very largely agree. bringing this report to a conclusion has, of course, been a very slow process. i think all the members of the committee on constitutional affairs are aware of this. it has been with us for about 18 months. the arrival of the report on the czech protocol in plenary has obviously taken time and the deliberations in committee have been complex: sometimes conflicting, sometimes not. there is a reason for this. it seems to me that a whole range of interests have been integrated into the text which is to be voted on this week. this has not been an easy pastime. the story of the protocol, as we have heard from mr duff, goes back to the promise made to the then president of the czech republic that his country could have an opt-out from the charter of fundamental rights. this was evidently a political move with political motivations: basically a gesture to secure that country’s ratification of the lisbon treaty, about which the aforementioned president was more than somewhat hesitant. if the politics of the situation require a gesture of this kind, the legal arrangements point in a different direction. indeed, one of the more illuminating propositions to emerge from this long discussion in committee is that politics and the law do not invariably go in tandem but can point in very different directions. this obviously adds to complexity, not to say confusion. we basically have an opt-out which is not an opt-out, which seems to me to be more than somewhat contradictory. the problem here, i would suggest, is that the legal utility of the opt-out is very much in question, with the consequence that there is, or was, a political promise that has precious little import in real terms. furthermore – and i think this is also highly significant – the political configuration in the czech republic has also changed, with the result that the significance of the political promise has declined from the czech perspective as well. in effect, politics is catching up with the law. for all these reasons i would like to suggest that the rational option for parliament, which of course is obliged to express a view on the czech protocol, is to follow the rapporteur.
the directive on cross-border patient rights adopted by the european parliament expires on 25 october 2013 for transposition by member states. this will allow all eu citizens to choose freely in which country to receive different types of medical treatment. it is therefore very important that there should be a uniform classification of european thermal baths, because we know very well that balneological treatments which can be used as therapeutic water-based treatments do not have side effects and offer a much cheaper solution to treat various diseases than medicines. it is therefore necessary to be able to regulate the therapeutic waters of each bathing place, the services provided there and the quality of medical care in a uniform manner throughout the union, for each bathing place in each country, so that voters can make a uniform assessment of their use of these waters.
the general sales taxes on basic foodstuffs vary widely in the member states of the european union. while hungary has a vat rate of 27% on most basic foods, the highest in europe, neighbouring austria has a tax rate of only 10% and poland has a tax rate of only 5% on food. the hungarian socialists, following the example of poland, which is similarly developed to ours, propose that the vat on food be reduced to 5% in hungary as well. the high food tax is not only a serious burden on the needy, but also a hotbed of black market trade and a serious obstacle to the healthy development of the hungarian food economy. the orbán government could finally stand up for the hungarian people by not making their daily lives more difficult. with tax cuts, we could help where it's needed most, the four million hungarians who are living in poverty, the poor people.
in writing. – i would like to welcome this report on the situation of women in the western balkans. however, one must not forget that apart from women, another very vulnerable group in this region is children. there are numerous challenges such as child poverty, social inclusion and violence against children that need to be faced. the eu provides opportunities for its citizens and beyond. however, any opportunity is worth only as much as it is accessible. access has to be guaranteed to different rights and to education within and outside the eu. if children are not educated properly, they are left without jobs and skills. in this regard the role and importance of mother tongue education should also be emphasised in the case of national minorities living in the western balkans. furthermore, with regard to higher education, visa-free travel has key importance in order to have access to international experience. lasting development can only be based on – and begins with – improvements to the well-being of the most marginalised and vulnerable children and adolescents. but in order to achieve this goal, strong partnerships are needed between all the relevant actors.
in writing. – despite countries in the western balkans having gender equality legislation in place, in most cases the population is not aware of existing policies to promote equality between women and men, and they rarely reach the vulnerable or marginalised members of society, especially roma women. trafficking in human beings in the area is alarming, with 30 % of trafficking victims in the eu being nationals from the balkans. accession countries must therefore provide sustained funding for combating trafficking, further strengthen their capacity to proactively identify and protect victims among the vulnerable populations, and ensure that identified victims are not punished for committing crimes if forced to do so by their traffickers. it is also of concern that in most of the balkan accession countries, the process for the social inclusion of the roma has slowed down and in some cases even come to a halt. balkan countries must therefore step up their efforts to further integrate roma citizens and guarantee the elimination of all forms of discrimination. the commission must also enhance its efforts to involve the enlargement countries at whatever stage of accession, to mobilise the instrument on pre-accession assistance and the mechanism of the stabilisation and association process.
the report clearly states that the media authority must be independent from the influence of the government, the parliamentary majority or any other social group. i am pleased that this wording, like the report, was adopted almost unanimously in the committee and i hope that it will be adopted by a large majority in the plenary. it is important to amend the audiovisual directive accordingly. we do not want to over-regulate the press, but we must uphold european values and freedom of the press is one of the most important pillars of democracy. the report calls on the european union agency for fundamental rights to monitor the implementation of press freedom and pluralism in the member states and stresses the need for community support for investigative journalism. both are very important. we welcome the fact that the commission's expert group has reached a conclusion similar to that of the european parliament's libe committee, and i would like to personally thank the commissioner for her commitment to this issue, and we hope that we will be able to work together as well in the future.
i fully agree with the report by renate weber, thank you for it. i support the european parliament's invitation to the european commission to propose the adoption of eu legislation regulating freedom of expression, information and the media at european level. i support the creation of a eu monitoring mechanism to monitor the media practices of member states. in march 2011, the european parliament adopted a resolution on hungarian media laws, which accurately reflects many of the problems outlined in the weber report. although the hungarian media laws have been changed thanks to the action of the european parliament and the european commission, in particular commissioner neelie kroes, the most serious problem remains: the state radio and television news channels, which are funded by taxpayers, do not reflect the situation in hungary and internationally. the news channels distort, manipulate and even lie, so hungarian citizens cannot get reliable information from these media.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the development of the audiovisual media services directive in 2010 was necessitated by technological and market changes, in particular the spread and use of multimedia on the internet and changing tv viewing habits. one of the main innovations was that, in addition to traditional (linear) television broadcasting, it also covered so-called non-linear broadcasting, where the content is typically chosen by the viewer himself on the internet and mobile phones. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr piotr borys, on his comprehensive report on the progress made in implementing this directive and on its effectiveness. i am pleased to see that the report includes a separate chapter on the protection of children. i agree with the importance of audiovisual media providers developing a code of conduct for inappropriate audiovisual commercial communications in programmes for children. the dangers posed by commercial communications are particularly acute for underage viewers. the principle of a confirmed country of origin makes clear to broadcasters the conditions under which they operate. this is necessary because services can be provided freely throughout the eu if they comply with the laws in force in the member state from which they originate. regulation is particularly important in the case of cross-border broadcasting. i will support the report with my own vote!
in writing. the report by mrs ria oomen-ruijten is sadly concerned with current and pressing issues. the excellent report by the european commission and mrs oomen-ruijten calls for both a strengthening of the monetary pillar of private pensions and the predictability of public pensions to ensure a decent living. the hungarian government's measures do not take into account long-term sustainability. citizens' life-long savings and rights are being taken away. they cancel out the sacrifices made by current pensioners and hungarian workers in the past for the sustainability of the pension system. they're going to retrospectively harm those affected. during the so-called hungarian pension reform, viktor orbán's government nationalized the private pension contributions of three and a half million hungarian citizens, and also retroactively withdrew pensions from hundreds of thousands of people, disability pensioners, citizens who had previously worked, voluntarily accepted inhumane working conditions, dangerous work, or unpaid overtime, as police, soldiers, border guards for the sake of hungarian citizens. the hungarian left values the life experience of pensioners, which deserves respect and esteem. therefore, and in order to ensure the sustainability of the hungarian pension system, the predictability and decent living standards of pensions and the future of the young generation, an urgent pension reform is needed in hungary.
the rapporteur. − firstly, i would like to congratulate my colleague kleva kekuš on her work as my co-rapporteur, and secondly, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs and all my colleagues for contributing with their amendments to the completion of my report. most eu member states have adopted very stringent consolidation measures as a response to the crisis. at the same time, it has tried and tried to reduce its debt and has introduced tax changes that may contribute to its success, but in many cases narrow the scope of tax exemption. but at the same time, it's getting stronger, and i would say that it's almost an industry, the institution of tax evasion, and i think that double non-taxation and aggressive tax planning is a problem that needs to be addressed. these factors severely reduce the ability of member states to raise taxes and, moreover, threaten fair taxation. i should mention that the eu's shadow economy is now so large that the commission has indicated that it accounts for almost a fifth of our gdp. that, ladies and gentlemen, is equivalent to two billion euros, which is another aggravating factor. it's also an open secret that billions of euros are hidden in tax havens, which is a problem, and unfortunately, the european union is helping. i have to say that the measures taken so far have not been adequate or have not been sufficiently effective. today, in the light of all this, it is very, very important for the council meeting to have a united position and it is very important that we can formulate a good message, precisely against the tax evaders and their helpers. the analysis shows that tax evasion and avoidance in the eu, as discussed in the debate, amounts to over eur 1 trillion. every loophole in the internal market opens up new and new loopholes for those seeking to avoid taxation. my fellow mps, this is a competition, and at the moment, it is the fraudsters who are winning this competition against the honest taxpayers. that is why this issue must be put on the agenda and why this issue must be discussed. the current crisis has raised serious problems which have required adjustments to national tax policies. in support of this work, my report proposes the development of an intelligent and coordinated tax information system which, instead of harmonising the tax systems of the member states, creates cooperation and coordination in the form of a platform where tax information can be collected, analysed and used for decisions in the next period. i think it is extremely important that the commission should develop the form of information exchange as soon as possible and provide the necessary support. however, fiscal measures and incentives that have an upward impact on the economy should be introduced in parallel with the crisis response. priority should be given to taxes that stimulate economic growth and employment policies in the short, medium and long term. i do not think that new taxes should be imposed or new taxes introduced in this respect. i think it's more important to increase the taxpayer base. at the same time, it is important to act to tackle the problems of tax evasion and avoidance. in this connection, the gaps in the law which some people use as an excuse for not paying the fair tax burden must be closed, as i propose in my report. i would like to conclude by saying, mr president, that i consider the introduction of reverse taxation to be a very good way of reducing vat fraud. however, i have to say that, unfortunately, the commission does not give adequate support to requests from member states in this respect. i ask the commission to change its position on this.
i am glad that the council is dealing with the energy issue in addition to tax havens. now is the time to make some important decisions about one of the biggest fixed costs for businesses and citizens, energy. we know what needs to be done at eu level to ensure a secure energy supply from fewer raw materials and with greater efficiency. but what do we do? we know that we need to connect networks at eu level to reduce our external dependence and improve investment sentiment. but what do we do? we know that large-scale infrastructure investment is needed, because there is a high cost of delay. but what do we do? we know the lengthy approval procedures we've encountered in using the funds we voted for in the 2008 recovery program. but what do we do? we know there's a delay in the transfer of the third power pack. we know that the institutions responsible for this are underfunded. but what do we do? we know that in the digital age, access to energy is a matter of being or not being. but what do we do? we know, but what do we do? the responsibility is historic. if we fail, we'll have to decide whether to invest about a trillion euros or not. this amount is the same as that negotiated in the context of tax havens.
in order to keep energy prices under control, the single energy market should be established as soon as possible. despite the efforts made so far, there are still many regions in the union where there is still not enough physical connectivity and the single market is not functioning. this is why the energy markets in the cee region are also characterised by unilateral energy dependence and higher energy prices than the eu average. the establishment of the single market does not require further legislation at union level, as the 2nd and 3rd energy packages provide a suitable basis for the establishment of the union energy market. the infrastructure package adopted in march this year is also an important step forward in ensuring the smooth flow of energy. however, citizens are still not fully benefiting from the benefits of the single market, as member states are unfortunately far behind in transposing eu law. despite the consumer protection provisions of the energy package 3, energy bills remain complex and do not provide an answer to why energy prices have increased significantly in recent times. regulation is also too permissive in several member states, so that energy suppliers are not obliged to provide consumers with an adequate level of information. in this context, i am convinced that the development of the eu infrastructure, the implementation in the member states and effective market surveillance are the key to ensuring that the acquis is not just abstract legislation for eu citizens, but tangible results. i believe that the council meeting which begins tomorrow is a good opportunity for the leaders of the member states of the european union to reach agreement on these important issues.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs kleva kekuš and gállné pelz ildikó. it is commendable that the european council has finally put the issue of tax havens and tax avoidance on the agenda at the highest level. this has involved a number of scandals, such as the insolvency of cyprus, the case of the former french finance minister, and the corruption of tax evasion in bavaria. but why did it take so many years? obviously because the political elites were closely tied to offshore companies, they were also involved in tax evasion. if this commitment to anti-corruption continues, it's not just the economy that will be whitewashed, but politics, public life. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. unfortunately, the complete lack of this is observed in hungary in connection with the expansion of the paksi nuclear power plant, it would be good... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, despite all the goodwill speeches and statements, the pressing issues of growth and unemployment – especially youth unemployment – have yet to be properly addressed. one thing is clear though: the austerity-only measures have failed economically, socially and democratically. now is the time for member states to take their responsibilities and put aside short-sighted views. european citizens need more than small steps from one council to another. we have several tools on the table, such as the growth pact or the youth unemployment scheme proposals, but there is no point if these are not followed by concrete measures and implementation as soon as possible. it is time for member states to understand that these measures are much more than spending. it is an investment for the future, for our youth and for the millions of european citizens facing growing social distress. moreover, as many of my colleagues have underlined, the amounts resulting from a more efficient fight against tax havens could have a huge impact if wisely used. the same goes for the financial transaction tax. these are legitimate and fair demands that could have a sustainable and positive effect in building the future of europe.
the rapporteur. − first of all, i would like to start by saying that i understand the dissatisfied people, and i also understand that my colleagues immediately took the debate on this issue to a much broader dimension, because everything is connected to everything. at the same time, in view of the outcome of this debate and the two reports on which it is based, i would ask the council to take a strong stand against tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax havens at national, international and eu level, and to take decisive action to reduce the eu's shadow economy, in a way that guides and spearheads the steps that can be taken to introduce tax incentives for tax policies and growth. members of the house of representatives! we have a system of tools. this is eu legislation, this is country-specific recommendations. yet, it seems that this toolbox is not enough to get us into the realm of implementation and to effectively tackle tax evasion. i think there's one thing that's missing, and that's intent. i would like to ask you, as the council representative, to represent our recommendations and requests in this debate today and at the next council meeting tomorrow, and to take the lead, as you have done so far and as the irish presidency has made it a priority, in taking effective action against tax evasion and avoidance and in reducing tax havens. it is very important that we get everyone to pay taxes where they do business and not to do so by taking their money to tax havens. it is not good for the credibility and reputation of the european union to hide existing tax havens. i thank my colleagues for their comments and ask them to support these reports in the next vote so that we can take effective action against tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax havens as soon as possible and put in place growth incentives that can generate growth in the face of austerity.
in writing. − sri lanka has previously concluded 15 bilateral agreements with the member states of the european union individually, the relevant provisions of which are supplemented or replaced by the relevant provisions of a single eu agreement. the legislation regulates the issue of designation, the granting and withdrawal of licences and clearly states that sri lanka may not discriminate between air carriers of eu member states on the basis of nationality when exercising its rights. it also resolves any conflicts with the eu's competition rules. i voted in favour of the agreement being approved by parliament.
in writing. − the harmonisation of the rules on takeover bids at european level will guarantee the transparency of the procedure, ensure the right of shareholders, employees and other interested persons to be informed, improve the functioning of the corporate control market and create a level playing field for takeover bids across europe. however, it is important to note that the directive was transposed by the member states at the beginning of the economic crisis, when public tenders decreased significantly in parallel with the economic downturn. i therefore believe that more time and further studies and surveys are needed to properly assess the functioning of the directive and to decide whether and to what extent further harmonisation measures are necessary in relation to public tenders. the commission is invited to make a new assessment when the effects of the financial crisis have subsided and the number of takeover bids has returned to its previous level.
in writing. − solving the problems highlighted by my colleague jens geier is, in my view, also the key to catching up with former industrial regions. market changes lead to the downsizing of certain sectors, but restructuring is not without problems, and it is only by relying on market mechanisms that restructuring is difficult or not at all possible. this is a very important time for community resources, which will pay off in the long term for the whole single market. i also welcome the call in the report for cohesion policy to place greater emphasis on corporate innovation and investment, social inclusion and urban development. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the role of renewable energy is unquestionable, as it is of major importance in reducing the member states' dependence on fossil fuels, helping to maintain or strengthen their competitiveness and in achieving a long-term reduction in household energy costs. we, as members of the european parliament, have a duty to do everything we can to achieve the objectives set out above. we need to create a regulatory environment that is predictable and provides certainty for investments that increase renewable energy production and efficiency. the commission's documentation shows that 22% of eu households are worried about being able to pay their electricity bills, and this figure is suspected to have increased in recent years. during the crisis, the living conditions of citizens have deteriorated significantly, and therefore reducing the costs of the recession is becoming increasingly important to them, as exemplified by hungary. in addition to increasing the share of renewable energy, the efficiency of current wasteful systems also plays an important role, which should be promoted in eu cohesion policy. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the reul report, as it stresses the importance of renewable energy in terms of both environmental considerations and reducing europe's energy dependence, and the importance of winning consumer support. i believe that we also need to increase investment, which is essential to reduce costs. reducing costs by increasing competition is possible and should be encouraged by the european union. i myself believe that the efficient use of renewable energy can be one of the keys to the eu's future competitiveness. as the report shows, consumers are the main beneficiaries of the completion of the internal energy market and progress in this process should be supported. i also agree with the part of the report that stresses the importance of r & d, as it is indeed a key issue for renewable energy.
in writing. − in the context of the report we have just voted on, i would like to draw attention to the role of ethical journalism, since the essential principles of freedom of expression, freedom of the press and media pluralism must be accompanied by a greater emphasis on the need for journalistic responsibility and ethical conduct. we need a media that informs us and doesn't misinform us. it is essential that media accountability be given increased attention in an era of increasing media role. while the media has now become a branch of power in its own right, the well-defined rules of responsibility and accountability that exist in other branches of power are still in their infancy. we need a code of conduct that better protects children in this media world, for example. in this respect, legal harmonisation at union level is also important, since the differences in the rules and practices of the authorities of the member states make it very difficult to deal effectively with service providers established in other member states and it is almost impossible to take meaningful action. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the media are not subject to the same rules as the media, and that the media are not subject to the same rules as the media.
in writing. the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for sustainable development. the document, thanks to the professional comments of the hungarian people's party group, takes due account of the specific features of the hungarian pension system, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as it gives a good sense of the problems facing european pension systems and sheds light on the tasks that member states and the european union will have to tackle in the coming years. the sustainability of the pension system requires the proper functioning of both the public and the private pillars. the evolution of demographic trends will make pension reforms increasingly urgent in the coming years. the report also highlights the need to harmonise methodologies and promote mobility in european pension systems. as the report shows, citizens need to be properly informed about their options. the ability to plan pension entitlements for citizens is of paramount importance, as the absence of such planning creates a high degree of uncertainty, undermining the functioning of european social systems. this is a very difficult task and requires a wide range of cooperation to solve it.
in writing. − the sustainability of european pension systems is a major challenge which is closely linked to the steady ageing of the eu population, whereby the number of people of prime working age is constantly shrinking, in parallel with the long-term rise in life expectancy. the solutions proposed by the commission, such as balancing the time spent in work and retirement, developing complementary retirement savings and strengthening eu synergies are to be welcomed. however, the main direction for a solution should be creating the conditions for a high level of participation by women and men in the labour force throughout their lives and enhancing the opportunities to build up safe complementary retirement savings. member states therefore cannot afford to waste the potential of any part of their populations and investing in the socio-economic integration of those who are currently excluded from the labour market is more than a matter of human rights: it also stands for good economic sense and contributes to the sustainability of eu economies.
madam president, the crisis again revealed the extreme fragility of the banking system. in addition to being a market failure, the global financial crisis can be considered a government failure: misguided monetary policies, lack of regulation or distorted regulation. this contributed enormously to the deterioration of asset quality in banks. there is much discussion today about the origins of the crisis, whether it started in the banking system and then spilled over to the fiscal sector after bank rehabilitation, or vice versa. this is a fruitless debate. as long as government policy considers systemic banks too big to fail, there will be no way to cut the link between banking and the financial crisis. to cut the interlinkages between the fiscal and the banking crisis a preannounced schedule of a strong bail-in mechanism is needed, instead of the ad hoc bail-ins and comprehensive bailouts applied so far. no single supervisory mechanism will be credible without a transparent, predictable, rule-based commitment to sharing losses in the event of insolvency. this is not only an economic imperative but also a political one. it is no longer acceptable to privatise profits via socialised losses at the expense of taxpayers. the fundamental rules of capitalism should prevail. monetary policy and banking supervision can get into conflict when it comes to the rehabilitation of individual banks. the supervisory authority must be able to distinguish clearly between temporary problems in liquidity, and insolvency. the monetary authority is expected to discharge its role as lender of last resort only in the case of solvent banks. insolvent banks must not benefit even from temporary liquidity assistance. hence, while the monetary and supervisory functions have to be separated, there is also a need for cooperation and coordination between the two. there are also too many cooks in the kitchen now – the ecb, the eba, the esrb, the efsf, etc. we have to make sure that they all have tasks and responsibilities which are very precisely defined and understood, so that cooperation between them is smooth, rapid, effective and efficient.
the economic crisis has shown us how fragile our banking system is. it also pointed out that the problems of the affected banks in one member state can easily spill over to other member states and that individual solutions cannot and have not been successful. it was time to think of a solution. the achievement of all the elements of banking union can be beneficial for the euro area member states and beyond precisely because it will strengthen the trust that the market always values positively. overall, euro area banks will be able to finance the real economy with less funding, and this could have a positive spillover effect outside the euro area. hungary, together with the visegrád four, takes the view that the measures to create a banking union must not circumvent the existing institutional framework of the eu, place non-euro area countries at a disadvantage or jeopardise the unity of the internal market. i thank mrs marianne thyssen and my colleague mr giegold for the proper handling of these issues and the consideration of the interests of both euro-zone and non-euro-zone member states in the final compromises. i also think it is important that those who want to join this union later on should have a balance of rights and obligations. i also agree that it's a great idea to create a special financial stronghold, and maybe it would be useful for countries outside the euro area. this three-tiered system of supervision is important, but i would like to warn you about it and ask that it not be bureaucratic and that there be no overlapping of powers. in addition, it is also necessary to seek various institutional and financial guarantees. it's a very interesting question for mother and daughter banks to ask. i do not think it is acceptable for foreign-owned subsidiaries to be converted into branches. these two categories represent different national supervisory jurisdictions. mr president, one last sentence: there are still questions to be clarified, they are very important, but we must not rush. thank you again for this report and for the shared thinking that has emerged.
i would like to thank in particular the members who tabled this oral question. this important issue is once again before the european parliament. i would like to point out that in hungary, 10 years ago, during the first orbán government, the copyright law allowed an exception for people with hearing impairments in terms of access to materials. we see similar practices in other countries, and i think it's time that some good practices can be turned into a general practice that applies equally to everyone. the council has been giving priority to this issue since 2009. it was the same during the hungarian presidency. i welcome the fact that the european council is taking this matter seriously. the european parliament is fully supportive of this process and the commission is finally taking it seriously. at the same time, i think that everything must be done to ensure that this process is completed at the next stage of the negotiations, so that those materials are finally accessible to the visually impaired. i have two questions to put to the commission: firstly, what compromises will it be prepared to make when the negotiations are now closed, and what are the issues on which it will insist and not give in, and to what extent will it take account of the views of the interest groups? my second question is: what is the guarantee that the provisions of an international agreement on access for the visually impaired do not violate the principle of non-discrimination? in particular, the principle of free movement within the european union and the rights of eu citizens should not be affected by cross-border access.
the lisbon treaty has brought about important changes in decision-making in the field of home affairs and justice, but little is seen in practice. there's no sign of the council's commitment to enforcement. the clearest example of this was the issue of decision-making in schengen, which the council tried to keep at an intergovernmental level. some member states treat millions of roma as second-class citizens, limiting their rights. the free movement of lgbt couples, the recognition of their documents, is also hampered. the horizontal anti-discrimination directive has been on the council's radar for years and could make a serious contribution to the area of freedom, security and justice. in the event of violations of fundamental rights, the rule of law and the principles of democracy, more effective instruments and faster means of intervention are needed to enable the eu to preserve its credibility, protect its values and protect its citizens. we expect much stronger commitment from the member states in the future and a strong and clear response from the commission to any attempt to undermine the common european values. the aim of the programme would be to bring citizens closer to europe. that's not what we're seeing. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. the fight against terrorism and organised crime, including cybercrime, is an important element of the internal security strategy. to this end, the european union has taken significant steps, notably by strengthening the activities and powers of europol and enisa and by establishing the cyber security centre. however, in recent years new phenomena and trends have emerged which indicate new priorities. as for terrorism, diversification has continued, meaning that in addition to centralized terrorist organizations like al-qaeda, we have to expect a greater degree of radicalization of lone perpetrators and young people who have been raised in ordered civil circumstances, in the european and north american cultural environment, and who have become susceptible to terrorist ideologies. and certainly one of the most important goals in the near future will be to fight cybercrime. in this regard, it will be essential to make greater efforts than ever to harmonise member states' cybersecurity capabilities and to promote more effective bilateral cooperation and information exchange between law enforcement and intelligence agencies, as well as civil and military bodies. cyberterrorism and cyber espionage are emerging as one of the most important national security threats, which will require even more involvement of the private sector in the process of securing cyberspace in the future.
in writing. - in his report, mr kleva kekus highlighted the importance of combating tax fraud, which is already a real threat to the proper functioning of the single market and the quality of public services. the rapporteur's proposals are to be fully supported. among the most important of these proposals, the rapporteur asks the european commission to study the possibility of introducing european taxation on cross-border business models and electronic commerce, and it is also important to note that the authorities should dismantle the activities of financial service providers whose products or services facilitate tax evasion. tax cuts are also very important, and they're also in the report. i therefore voted in favour of the report, as i believe that international cooperation, coordination of tax systems and administrative cooperation are absolutely necessary in the fight against tax fraud. for this reason, the capacity to reduce tax evasion and avoidance should be increased.
in writing. − the report proposes the development of an intelligent taxation system that would coordinate member states' tax systems to avoid a new debt crisis. i consider it important to emphasise that tax policy remains a matter for the member states, since the proposed solution would merely coordinate tax systems, while respecting the differences between member states' tax systems, rather than harmonising them. in the wake of the protracted crisis, it is a priority for member states to stimulate economic growth and job creation while preserving budgetary equilibrium. in my view, a clear, predictable, stable and transparent tax environment within the single market is in the interest of both businesses and citizens.
in writing. − i am pleased that today we have taken another important step in the field of victim protection at eu level. i welcome the report, which is part of a legislative package to strengthen the rights of victims in the eu and which also includes a proposal for a directive on support, protection and rights for victims of crime. because that means that free movement and borderlessness are working in practice in the eu. we need to recognise the legal consequences in different member states so that citizens can use this in practice. when we are faced with civil cases across borders, life beyond the principles is a practical demonstration of how the union really works. so anything that strengthens international cooperation is welcome. it is important that there is the political will on the part of the member states to help, to give greater protection to potential victims, to simplify the administrative procedure for them and to ensure their protection everywhere.
in writing. − i would like to welcome this legislative report on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, which complements the directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. the proposal enables victims of violence, in particular domestic violence, stalking or violence against children, to remain under protection even when they move or travel to another member state, if that person’s life, physical or psychological integrity, personal liberty, security or sexual integrity is at risk. i truly hope that the standardised certificate proposed by the initiative will provide a speedy and efficient mechanism to maintain protection during victims’ movements – also through the abolition of intermediate procedures and introducing the ‘no grounds for refusal’ rule – while maintaining the proper fundamental rights safeguards. it is vitally important that the victim’s interests are given priority, including ensuring that her or his whereabouts and contact details are not disclosed to the person causing the risk. the possibility of adjusting the protection measure so that recognition of the protection measure could be effective in practical terms in the member state addressed is also an important safeguard for victims.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters aims to achieve recognition of measures to protect victims of violent acts in countries where such provisions are subject to civil or administrative proceedings. the combined application of criminal and civil law instruments allows all persons for whom protection orders have been issued to move freely and safely within the eu. the joint report of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities proposes the creation of a mechanism that would eliminate intermediate formalities by introducing a standardised and multilingual certificate and ensure the swift and simple recognition and enforcement of protection measures. it is in our common interest to protect and strengthen the rights of victims of crime, which is why i consider it important to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the draft decision, as customs cooperation with canada is another important element in ensuring the security and stability of the european union's participation in the global economy. it is welcome that, on the basis of the 1998 framework agreement, there has been gradual progress in customs cooperation between the european union and canada. the security of the logistics chain is a major value today and the agreement on this can be considered a significant step forward. the european union should seek to reach similar agreements with as many partners as possible, as these agreements are in the interest of all member states. european countries, acting as one in the world economy, can also achieve major results in this area. in my view, further steps should be taken in cooperation with canada.
in writing. − the european parliament's plenary today voted on the european commission's proposal to establish a common european banking supervisor, which could be the first important step towards the creation of a european banking union, which the ep has been advocating since 2010. to protect european unity, restore financial stability and lay the foundations for economic growth, the integration of the banking sector had to be strengthened. the safety and soundness of large banks is essential to ensure the stability of the financial system. however, recent experience has shown that smaller banks can also pose a threat to financial stability. according to the parliament's resolution, the european central bank may therefore at any time and in any circumstances exercise the powers conferred on the competent national authorities and perform any specific supervisory tasks. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i believe that it is very important for the strengthening of the single market to remove the administrative barriers that prevent the free movement of goods for different types of goods, including pyrotechnic products. i supported the report because i believe that consumer protection is particularly important for pyrotechnic products and that the new legislative framework will help to make it more effective. i support the rapporteur's aim to take advantage of the consumer protection provisions of the new legislative framework with the amendments.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted today by a large majority the report on the transposition of the audiovisual media services directive. the document has a separate chapter on the protection of children, which is of particular importance as underage viewers are the most exposed to the dangers of commercial communications. the principle of a confirmed country of origin is particularly important for cross-border broadcasting, as the regulation makes clear to broadcasters the conditions under which they operate. the document, like the new hungarian media regulation, places a strong emphasis on new technologies in media services and press products. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, as i believe that the rapporteur has made a good point about the problems with the implementation of the directive. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for significant progress in promoting european works. i personally feel that there should be a greater emphasis on strengthening media literacy, which is not an easy task in today's complex media world. i consider the protection of minors to be of the utmost importance, since modern media not only provide opportunities for them but also contain content harmful to them, and therefore it is essential to ensure the implementation of this part of the directive. as the rapporteur has pointed out, the member states do not fully comply with the rules on advertising. i think it will take a long time to find a lasting solution. i also agree with the rapporteur that forms of advertising that seek to circumvent restrictions should be monitored.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the situation in syria is becoming more untenable and the eu cannot continue to turn a blind eye to the problem. the civil war has claimed 100,000 lives so far, and it seems the syrian dictator is not shying away from using chemical weapons against his own people. i am convinced that the eu must not only promote peace through humanitarian aid but also through active diplomatic engagement and the speedy establishment of democracy in syria. it would mean the total destabilization of the region if the hezbollah terrorist organization were to take advantage of the chaos to obtain additional weapons. it is in the interest of all europe for the future that we prevent by all possible means the huge arsenal of syrian weapons from falling into the hands of terrorists. thank you for your attention.
blue-card question. – i liked your point about it being a question of principle and of dignity that if a dictatorship collapses, then the assets of the dictator should be frozen by the european union, the european community, and then released and returned to the new democracies. sorry for my ignorance, but could you please enlighten me as to whether it was the same in the case of the collapse of communist dictatorships in europe and, if not, why not? because the only thing i see is that the successors of those communist dictators still sit on that side of the chamber and cooperate very well. they were actually helped and supported in stealing the money of those nations, so what was the exact situation in terms of the former communist countries in this context?
blue-card question to paul murphy. – i appreciate your point about western leaders’ attitudes to those dictatorships. can you recall when the british queen, for example, shook the hand of ceausescu? what is your opinion about that? also the principle you recalled: do you think it is also valid in the context of communist countries that the debts that were accumulated by the communist dictators should not be paid back to those westerners who knew exactly whom they were dealing with?
bosnia and herzegovina is in a very difficult situation, because the country is made up of small units of a federal nature, very vulnerable. three ethnicities live together here, which is itself prone to conflict. i lived in a small town in southern hungary called mohács. we have the same situation, where croats, serbs, hungarians and germans have lived together in peace for a long time, but i could mention the city of pécs, where the same situation exists. hungary is committed to the stabilization of the situation in bosnia and herzegovina as soon as possible and to the speedy launching of negotiations enabling the country's accession to the european union. i think that as the southern gateway to the european union, we could not have taken a different position. the situation will obviously change from 1 july, when croatia will also join the european union, and this will allow us to work even more closely with them.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 23 may 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. 2013 could be the year of the western balkans in europe. croatia will join the european union in six weeks. following the historic agreement between belgrade and pristina, we have every hope that serbia will be the next country in the region to open accession negotiations with eu member states soon. kosovo could also be brought to the negotiating table with the 27 or now 28 member european union in the near future to discuss the tasks leading to an association agreement. montenegro has been negotiating accession with the twenty-seven since last june. however, bosnia and herzegovina could easily miss the moment, as it has not even submitted its application for membership, which was originally planned for last year. ethnic conflicts continue to hamper the normal functioning of the republic's institutions, and the political consensus needed to move closer to the european union is lacking. if the country's political forces are only concerned with the aspects of their own ethnic community, 2013 will not be the year of bosnia and herzegovina, but of croatia, serbia and kosovo in the western balkans. after july 1st, those living on the bosnian side of the croatian-bosnian border will lose the ability to cross the border with an id card. we ask the council to abandon its negative position and to decide in favour of maintaining this regime. after joining the eu, hungary, which borders several non-eu countries, also adopted this system to make it easier for people to travel and stay in touch. we'd be happy to share our experience.
i welcome the members of the delegation of the parliament of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (sobranie), led by mr kenan hasipi, who are seated in the chamber. the delegation took part today in the 11th meeting of the eu-fyrom joint parliamentary committee. the committee will continue its meeting tomorrow and adopt recommendations to the authorities of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the eu institutions. it is appropriate that the delegation participate in the debate on the commission's annual report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i wish the country every success in its efforts to integrate.
the following point is inserted after point (a) of article 2 of the protocol on the position of the united kingdom and ireland in respect of the area of freedom, security and justice:
madam president, mr howitt’s report is very cogent. a fair number of countries have actually signed agreements with macedonia, and this is the name that they will use when referring to the state in question. hungary is among them. of course, in the spirit of democracy, if others wish to use the idiosyncratic neologism fyrom, they should be free to do so. the name dispute, however, is only a symptom of a much deeper problem. greece has yet again indicated that it will veto the opening of negotiations with the eu, asserting that macedonia’s road to europe must lie through greece. macedonia, not surprisingly, feels frustrated. this has led the government to launch a process of creating a pedigree for the country by giving it maximal antiquity, converting classical heroes like alexander the great into proto-macedonians. a little bizarre, you might think, but the construction of this pedigree is seen as a mode of exclusion by macedonia’s albanian minority, and that has resulted in growing tensions between the slavophone and albanian communities. on top of that, there are deep divisions within the communities as well. this has not helped the emergence of a stable democratic culture. overall it is hard to avoid the conclusion that the long delay in the opening of the negotiations with the european union has played its part in the tensions that have beset macedonia, so it really is time to start the negotiations.
i am pleased that the processes in macedonia that could lead to the opening of negotiations for the country's accession to the european union have been significantly accelerated in the past year. important reform processes have been initiated and accelerated in the recent period. relations with neighbouring countries have also improved - i am thinking in particular of bulgaria and greece - and it seems that the issue of the use of the country's name may also be resolved through negotiations under the auspices of the un. but there are also problems: i am thinking in particular of the internal political tensions of the last six months, but i could also mention the acceleration of emigration over the last 15 years, since 10% of the population left the country during this period. there is no question - and as a hungarian representative i think this in particular - that the european union attaches great importance to the stability and the recovery of the south-east region. accession negotiations must be launched as soon as possible and macedonia must be helped to prepare for eu accession.
the situation regarding the european integration of macedonia is becoming increasingly untenable for both the country and the union. as the report shows, the former yugoslav member state fulfilled the conditions and expectations set for it. what are we waiting for? after such a long and pointless delay, when will macedonia finally get a date to start accession negotiations? the situation is all the more untenable because, in my view, not only the candidate country but also the union have obligations towards it. after repeated delays and unjustified omissions, we must finally set macedonia on a clear and uncluttered european path! the balkans are a region that has suffered a lot. we have a common interest in bringing this region into europe. we should not sit idly by and watch others try to influence us. accession negotiations with macedonia should start this year!
if the eu-us trade agreements succeed, they could improve the global competitiveness of the union and the united states, especially in relation to china, india and other emerging countries, and i hope that if the negotiations succeed, the union's trade deficit will also be reduced. but let's face it, these negotiations not only offer opportunities, they also present dangers, risks. much more attention should be paid to sensitive areas, to the problem of certain sensitive agricultural products. it is a pity that this resolution does not include the clause already contained in several european parliament resolutions, which stated that the competitiveness of european farmers should be protected by including the application of the european union's animal welfare, environmental and food safety standards in international trade agreements. in the absence of this, the additional costs incurred by european farmers will not be compensated. you left that out. that's too bad. but this is not just about these issues, it is also about whether we trust the commission, and unfortunately there are bad experiences because the commission has started the mercosur negotiations again very insensitively, causing many to feel that the commission is inclined to sacrifice agricultural interests.
in writing. the transatlantic free trade area between the european union and the united states of america is vital for the european union. in many ways, this could be the realization of a dream that's been around for over 30 years. in view of the difficult economic conditions, the establishment of this agreement is a matter of great urgency, as this agreement is the key to launching economic growth in both the european union and the united states. a free trade agreement can open up new markets for europe, increase foreign direct investment and, as a result, create many value-adding jobs and increase europe's competitiveness on the world market. it could improve europe's exports by up to 28% and the us's exports by 37% with gdp growth in both countries continuing at a steady rate of up to 0.5% per year. the agreement on fuels and chemicals would be particularly beneficial, as it would develop industry and the energy market, thereby providing european citizens with cheaper energy. the agreement would also serve to develop global regulations to strengthen the multilateral trading system. it is important to emphasise that europe, not the united states, should set the standards in this area. to seek what unites and understand what separates. that could be the key to success in the negotiations.
in writing. i welcome the efforts to develop a macro-regional strategy for the alps. i believe that macro-regional strategies have a significant added value, as they seek to build on existing financial resources to achieve development by making better use of synergies. the two existing macro-regional strategies (baltic and danube) have shown that society is highly receptive to macro-regional cooperation. bottom-up construction, multi-level governance, and stakeholder mobilisation already in the strategy-making phase will enable macro-regional strategies to offer solutions tailored to the needs of the regions. while the usefulness of such strategies is unquestionable, i believe it is important that the evaluation of existing strategies be carried out as soon as possible, on the basis of full, objective criteria and measurable indicators. the danube strategy adopted during the hungarian presidency focused on sustainable development, creating a livable, environmentally friendly danube region. sustainable development should be a key element of any future macro-regional strategy. given that macro-regional strategies can effectively contribute to the europe 2020 strategy and the objectives of sustainable development, and also promote the active involvement of society and stakeholders in all phases of the strategy, i believe that more attention should be paid to these strategies in the future.
in writing. i am pleased that we have been able to improve the loss rate for pets since the last regulation, which now allows us to amend the transport rules. the results of past rabies prevention campaigns also show that information is a very important task for the effectiveness of each issue. only by working with citizens can the desired objectives be achieved. by improving transport conditions, we can once again help european people with one of their daily problems. i think that in this case too we must try to put as few unnecessary obstacles as possible in the way of citizens, while at the same time, of course, guaranteeing the necessary security. it is important to maintain the progress made in the control of rabies. we must support the rapporteur's proposal to change the structure of identification documents and his proposal to close the legal gap on the vaccination of young animals. we can see that the abuse of the rules in this area also puts us in a difficult position. the rapporteur's proposals are also welcome in this area. however, it is questionable whether the application of any deviations from the maximum number would not render the system opaque.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the revision of the rules on the transport of pet animals has created conditions which will make it easier for european citizens to travel with their pets in the future without any particular difficulties or interpretation problems. in order to prevent circumvention, the previous commission regulation (eu) no 388/2010 limited the maximum number of animals that could be transported in this way to five, which in practice caused a number of undue difficulties for those wishing to participate in sporting events, competitions and exhibitions. a further problem was the divergent approach of the member states with regard to the compulsory vaccination against rabies of animals less than 3 months of age. finally, the rules on the filling in of identification documents have often caused confusion among veterinarians and owners. the amendment has now resolved all these problems and i congratulate the rapporteur on the agreement reached at first reading.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2012 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. the eu has repeatedly expressed its commitment to the accession of the western balkan countries, including bosnia and herzegovina. the eu's influence in enlargement has declined as a result of the economic and financial crisis, but european integration remains one of the strongest forces for uniting the country's population. from 1 july 2013, with the accession of croatia, the gap between the bosnian croat population and croats in croatia will further deepen. in order to avoid increasing ethnic tensions, i call on the bosnian political elite to develop a broadly accepted general approach to governing the country. the bosnian leadership has other tasks ahead of it, just to mention the most important: constitutional reform, a well-functioning institutional system at all levels, reducing unemployment, fighting corruption. but first, the country's leading politicians must prove their commitment and willingness to compromise!
in writing. − bosnia and herzegovina is a fragile and conflict-prone region, due to its loosely connected small territorial units and the coexistence of three different ethnic groups (croats, bosniaks, serbs). i lived in a small town in southern hungary called mohács, where similarly many ethnic groups - germans, croats, serbs, and hungarians - have lived side by side in peace for a long time, but pécs is no different. hungary is committed to the speedy stabilisation of the situation in bosnia and herzegovina and the acceleration of negotiations enabling the country's accession to the european union. i think that as the southern gateway to the european union, we cannot take a different position, and with the accession of croatia to the eu (1 july this year), cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina could become even closer.
in writing. − unfortunately very little progress can be reported with regard to the socio-economic situation of roma, who remain the most vulnerable minority in both entities. in addition to the general low socio-economic status of roma in the region, in bosnia and herzegovina roma children and women suffer even more serious disadvantages, including domestic violence, organised child begging and the lack of birth registration, which hampers their school registration and health insurance. furthermore, many roma still face the risk of statelessness, and there is still no comprehensive policy to ensure the sustainable return of internally-displaced persons or their complex local integration. bosnia and herzegovina is participating in the decade of roma inclusion and has in place four action plans under the roma strategy. however, considering the substandard socio-economic status of roma and the lack of progress in recent years, a much more comprehensive action plan which can bring about immediate results within the communities is necessary.
in writing. − i supported the report and regret that the council decided again in december 2012 not to follow the commission's recommendation to open accession negotiations with macedonia. i would like to stress again and again that bilateral issues have no place in the accession process and must not be allowed to hinder it. let us not forget that the prospect of integration has given new impetus to macedonian reforms and the country fulfils the political criteria for accession. among other things, the authorities made efforts to break with the communist past by releasing the names of secret agents. the political crisis that erupted around the budget issue at the end of 2012 and the prospect of a boycott of the local elections on 24 march 2013 is regrettable, but the eu's intervention has had the desired effect. however, in order to prevent political and ethnic tensions and growing public disillusionment, the date for the opening of accession negotiations should be set as soon as possible.
in writing. − the processes leading to the opening of negotiations for the accession of macedonia to the eu have been accelerated in the recent period. relations with the countries of the mediterranean, greece, and bulgaria have improved, and the dispute over the use of the country's name seems to be settled by negotiations under the auspices of the united nations. however, there are still issues to be resolved, such as the internal political tensions of the past six months or the large-scale emigration that has occurred in the last 15 years, affecting 10% of the country's population. the stability and recovery of the south-east european region are of particular importance to hungary and the european union. we must start accession negotiations as soon as possible and help macedonia to prepare for accession to the union.
in writing. − some progress has been achieved in the situation of roma, such as the increase in the school enrolment rate and the government efforts to address the over-representation of roma children in special schools. however, the equal access of roma communities to health services remain far from achieved, and the high infant mortality rate among roma is also of serious concern. furthermore, many roma children are either not vaccinated at all or are insufficiently vaccinated. the launch of the roma health mediator programme and the initiative to legalise illegal dwellings is to be welcomed, but a much more comprehensive effort is needed from the government to foster roma inclusion. equality between women and men is also a goal to be further pursued, especially in rural areas, where gender-based discrimination and violence as well as harmful stereotypes and tradition continue to hamper the achievement of women’s fundamental rights.
in writing. − as a member of the fidesz delegation to the european parliament, i did not vote on the report on the free trade agreement between the european union and the united states. as a member of the european parliament from hungary, i have always considered the protection of the interests of european and hungarian farmers to be the most important issue in international trade policy. one of the key guarantees is that imported products must meet the same food safety, environmental, animal welfare and other standards as european products. since the report on the united states does not include this condition, i did not vote in favour of it.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the house of commons, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole house of commons during the votes in plenary. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, since the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, we also represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation may differ from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
i would like to say in english that i too would insist that the debate on the torture of prisoners in guantanamo bay, which reflects the human rights policy of the united states, and the secret cia prisons in europe, be held. i don't know how it could possibly happen that, contrary to the program, there would be no debate today. the united states is still regarded in europe as the great scholar and protector of human rights. for example, in relation to hungary, the tavares report is also being sent to the united states government for reasons i cannot understand. that's what the tavares report says. it would be good if the european public, during the debate, were made aware of the human rights policies and practices of the united states, which has established secret cia prisons in europe and tortures prisoners at guantanamo.
blue-card question. – you criticised serious violations of human rights during criminal proceedings, and i agree with you that it is wrong to violate fundamental due-process rights of defendants. moreover, you criticised violations of human dignity in prisons. both these things were done by the united states. nevertheless, your group, the greens, represented by mr tavares, wrote a report on the human rights situation in hungary and wants to send – to transfer – this report to the government of the united states of america. how is this possible? how can you reconcile these two views or acts?
i have to admit, i'm following this debate with a certain amount of envy. i envy the politicians in the european parliament who can speak with such confidence about the situation in remote lands such as rwanda or india, in certain criminal proceedings and in human rights in general. i don't know if we're talking about rwanda now, not the situation x years ago, when the international community didn't intervene, i'm just saying that in parentheses. so if it's so easy to judge and decide on the human rights situation in rwanda and india, why was there no action when we were shot in the eye in a european union member state, hungary, in 2006? why can't you stand up when i've been saying it since 2009 that george budahasi, the leader of the opposition outside parliament, was still in prison? to this day, he and his fellow opposition members are under criminal proceedings for procedural violations, are banned from entering budapest, and are banned from leaving their homes. why can't we know that with the same conviction... (the chairman withdrew the floor from the member)
blue-card question. – mr president, we know, mr tavares, from your hungarian report that you are an expert on transparency. with this expertise, how satisfied are you with this report’s message on corruption within the european union institutions? in other words, has this report covered sufficiently the well-known corruption that goes on within the institutions of the european union, as suggested, for example, by this week’s bilderberg group meeting? to what extent are you happy with the system of checks and balances within the european union, and how does it prevent corruption within the european union?
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 june 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. i welcome the interim report as it calls for more effective cooperation in the fight against organised crime and makes specific recommendations on the objectives and the necessary measures. in my amendments, i have pointed out, among other things, that the link between terrorism and organised crime is becoming more and more organic and powerful, as illustrated by the sahel region. the penetration of cybercrime in organised crime (especially russian and russian-speaking organised crime) has fundamentally transformed traditionally mafia-type organisations and created new types of structures. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation. illicit trafficking (proliferation) of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) substances and devices may also be linked to organised crime and serve as a source of funding for terrorists. organized crime and terrorism are keen to use non-profit organisations (charities, civil society) as a cover for money laundering. monitoring of non-profit organisations is a necessary law enforcement task, but it must be aligned with data protection requirements.
the next item is the report by mrs elisabeth morin-chartier, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields) (com(2011) 0348 c7-0191/2011 2011/0152 ((cod)) (a7-0009/2013)
on behalf of the ppe group. as coordinator of the pp, i would like to congratulate elisabeth morin-chartier and welcome the fact that an agreement has been reached with the council at first reading. as we know, the union has exclusive legislative competence in the field of health and safety at work. this is not a coincidence, since it is a matter of protecting human life and health, and there is of course an economic aspect: from the point of view of competition law, it ensures that economic operators compete on the same terms. magnetic resonance is a physical phenomenon, a set of physical effects that workers encounter quite often in the workplace, and therefore protection is warranted. at the same time, it is important to know that this always costs money, so there are serious economic interests in the background. so it's really important to have a balance, a balanced approach, and to have all the legislators negotiate with everybody. if we don't do that, we're making the mistake that we made in 2004, probably, of not recognizing that between the health interest and the economic interest, there's another social interest, namely the interest of healthy healing. these are technical means which the legislator did not intend to exclude. so once again i can say that the ppe supports this report and welcomes the rapporteur's work in achieving a good, healthy balance on this issue.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. today's debate is for many the joyous end of a long journey. medical circles first sounded the alarm in 2006 when it emerged that an earlier directive regulating the exposure of workers to risks arising from exposure to electromagnetic fields would have inadvertently restricted the use and development of the magnetic resonance imaging technique, more commonly known as mri. as we all know, mri scans are one of the most important tools in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer and other serious diseases. europe is a leader in research and development of technology, and thus also provides the highest quality of healthcare for its patients. without the unprecedented european convergence of patient organisations, researchers and doctors, as well as politicians, which is forcing the amendment of the directive that is now before us, the possibilities for medical application and technical development of mri would have been seriously jeopardised. after the parties had demonstrated during the negotiations that the health sector had already taken care to introduce strict precautions with regard to the risks to workers, the use of mri was finally exempted from the very strict exposure limits of the directive. i would like to congratulate all my colleagues who have contributed to this report. i believe that in more than seven years of fighting for the future of the irm, the european parliament has once again succeeded in proving that european citizens can count on the help of their elected representatives.
on behalf of the ppe group. i was involved in the drafting of this text as the people's party coordinator and the person responsible for the subject matter in the committee on employment and social affairs. i welcome you in any way, and we agree with you on the question. it reflects the many compromises we've made with each other. i agree with the european commission that we need to prioritise social investment, modernise our welfare systems, make more effective active inclusion measures and use the social budget more efficiently and effectively. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the european social fund is adequately funded. i've made some changes myself. as rapporteur for the 2010 employment guidelines, i particularly welcome the fact that this communication and this initiative are in line with the objectives of the 2020 strategy. the commissioner also said that it could be seen as complementary to a number of recent initiatives, so it was positive in every way. i would like to mention a couple of problems: we have seen cases where a member state has financed social tasks with international financial loans, and the result has been disaster. you should avoid these types of traps. i regret that in paragraph 38 i would have mentioned the important role of family policies and the family in the context of the demographic challenge this was not finally passed on to the commission. we have reintroduced this proposal and it is also worth considering the minimum conditions for unemployment benefits. i think we can reconsider that proposal tomorrow. by the way, we owe a big thank you to the president, the speaker. we have indeed had a thorough, detailed and compromise-oriented debate in the commission, and the text is quite good in that sense.
blue-card question. – ms lambert, when you were speaking about the need for more social equality within the european union, did you also mean more social equality between the so-called ‘old’ member states, meaning basically western europe, and the ‘new’ member states, especially post-socialist or post-communist countries? i hope you did, and if so, what steps do you think should be taken to achieve that?
in the field of support for social investment, we must establish two basic principles: first, aid does not lead to results; instead of aid, we must give people jobs. unfortunately, the region of central and eastern europe after the fall of socialism showed that the welfare system is not going anywhere, because children grew up seeing their parents not working, living on welfare. they had no motivation to take a job at all. the other principle that we need to nail down is that you can't use credit to finance social investments. in hungary, the previous government tried this, and the result was total bankruptcy. so i think that social bonds are not an alternative in this case, we have to turn the economy around and turn economic results into social investment, because we have to create jobs, we have to offer young people a breakthrough, and that cannot be done in any other way.
mr president, i would say to the commissioner that members of the european commission obviously do not have to be professional actors, and nor they do not have to have outstanding rhetorical skills. but still, the complete lack of emotion and the complete lack of sympathy towards, and empathy with, the poor of europe and the oppressed and those who suffer enormously as a result of the decisions of the european union and the troika has been very shocking to me. therefore let me ask you whether you are ever exposed to the real experiences of real people in europe. the crisis has been going on at least since 2008. members of this commission were starting their jobs here in 2009. have members of this commission ever been on field trips or in any other way confronted the realities of poverty in europe? have they ever met people in europe outside the world of five-star hotels and chauffeur-driven cars? if not, do you not think it would be a good idea to do so?
intellectual property is one of the key factors in our competitiveness. protecting knowledge is the same as protecting research, it is the same as protecting innovation, it is the same as protecting jobs. in addition to all this, and at the same time, i think it is true that the global trade in infringements of intellectual property and counterfeit goods, which amounts to billions of euros, is a growing concern for all of us and a risk to the health and safety of consumers. however, it should also be noted that customs duties have a direct impact on international trade and that enforcement measures themselves should not become a barrier to legitimate trade. it should also be consistent with other actions, directions and commitments of the european union. i support the further extension of the scope of the infringements covered by the draft regulation, as i am convinced that this will lead to a strengthening of the protection of intellectual property. at the same time, i think it is important to mention the grey market economy, the grey market goods, the interception of which and the detection of related infringements are expected to continue to cause problems. i am glad that this draft regulation has been worded in this way and i support this report and i will do so by voting in favour of it.
a friend in trouble knows a friend in trouble, says a hungarian proverb. for days, authorities and citizens in central europe have been fighting the worst floods in centuries. the flood has not spared my country, hungary, but it has not only brought record flooding. june 4th is a day of national solidarity in hungary, which this extraordinary emergency personified by showing the unprecedented unity of volunteers from inside and outside the border. men and women, old and young, working side by side, carrying sand, filling bags, providing food. it is appropriate that, while on behalf of all of us, i think it is right to thank the selfless and self-sacrificing work of the volunteers and the authorities, i ask the european union without delay to help mitigate the damage and to take steps for the future to ensure that we can build the necessary line of defence and to provide the appropriate resources.
european consumers face new challenges every year. maybe it's the recession. however, we need to respond to these challenges as providers of redress and consumer organisations need to be given appropriate support. my colleague's report points to just that, consumer protection and information. i agree with the rapporteur that the information supply needs to be increased and i think it is also appropriate to set up a european register system. i support and think it is very important that we give priority to the issue of food waste, because 90 million tonnes of food are wasted every year in the european union, which represents more than half of the eu's gdp. i think this is a very complex problem, and consumers have to make complex choices, and it's our job to help them do that. i will support my colleague's report.
it is very important that this report be debated here in the european parliament. i want to talk about children, about advertising that is directed at children, because i think that children, especially younger children, so those who are 12 years old or younger, are extremely exposed today to the advertising that is directed at them. i think it is worth considering the regulation that switzerland introduced in 1991 that children under 12 cannot be targeted in media advertising because these children cannot interpret those advertisements and so they look for things that are dangerous to their health. and we also have to think about how we can keep these kids away from these things that are a health hazard, like tobacco products, like alcohol, or how we can reform the food system so that we can feed them less salt, less sugar, more fruits, more vegetables.
mrs delli's report highlights the high number of people without a home in the european union today, more than 5%. in addition, the economic and financial crisis has made it very difficult for families who cannot afford the costs of housing maintenance today. therefore, i think that the initiative taken by the hungarian government in the field of reducing the deficit is unique and can show the way for the european union countries in order to support people's livelihood and housing. in addition to reducing emissions, another very important step is to support energy-saving investments. we have the european union's support for this, and we need to offer as many alternatives as possible, green energy, and eliminate waste. the european investment bank would also have a role to play in supporting governments and private investors with credit structures that would stimulate the market a bit and help to recover from the economic crisis.
the report rightly points out that the needy, the young, the low-income need affordable housing, an effective program. hundreds of thousands of vacant apartments in hungary could be used by the government and municipalities to launch an effective rental housing program. i therefore support the european commission's action programme on social housing, and encourage governments to do so. this could also help those in need in hungary. my fellow citizens! the central european floods are an extraordinary circumstance and warrant decisive action. in germany, austria, the czech republic, hungary, hundreds of thousands are hit by the flood wave of the decade. i sincerely hope that the european union solidarity fund will provide rapid assistance to european citizens who have lost their homes, especially those on low incomes. i hope that eu aid will become a measure of european solidarity.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and i agree with him on the content of the draft report. attention to women's education policy, women's mobility and women's skills is very important and, i would go further, can bring economic benefits to the member state and to the european union, but there are problems that need to be addressed. this is a problem, for example, when women go abroad to work and want to integrate, but their social rights are being curtailed. i think it's very important to have integration programmes in the draft report, i think it's important to have psychological counselling, and i think it's also important to have the issue of gender pay gaps, gender income gaps, addressed as soon as possible. if we can answer these questions in a satisfactory way, then i think we've also partially addressed the growing problem of mobility. however, the fact that this issue is treated as a high priority by member state governments can also contribute to this. the hungarian government did this for women under 25 and over 50, resulting in employment outcomes similar to those in 1992.
mr president, educational and occupational mobility is a very important issue, yet it is often overlooked, especially when it comes to women. increased mobility and qualifications can only strengthen the single market, increasing women’s participation in the labour market while allowing european citizens to make full use of this right. i welcome this report and would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. the right to live and work in another country is a fundamental freedom and should therefore be available to all citizens of the eu. as women face gender-based segregation and inequalities on the labour market, special attention should be paid to their social and legal protection. we should thus support efforts to facilitate the transfer of pensions and social benefits from one member state to another, and to develop tools and facilities to reconcile working and private life. moreover, the commission and the member states should in particular monitor the situation of the most fragile categories of women, such as those working in care and home services, seasonal workers and agricultural or migrant women. these workers often lack social protection and proper contracts. if we want to be serious about giving equal rights and protection to our citizens, we should act now.
i agree with the rapporteur that perhaps now is not the best time to change the territorial coverage of state aid and to reduce the intensity of aid in regions a. i think one of the reasons is that in a crisis, the most important task is to create jobs, and although it is very important to catch up with disadvantaged or disrupted regions. in an emergency situation, i think that if the regions that have received aid so far and now, under the new principles, simply disappear from the aid map or the aid intensity is significantly reduced, the whole european union would be at a competitive disadvantage. the european union is a global economy, and its economic and social cohesion is a key factor in the success of the european union. so i think that this is something that we should not support at the moment, but it's something that we should come back to at a later time.
i think we can all agree that the european electronic toll system, the ets, is not working. we need to investigate what's causing this. as the rapporteur, mr higgins, has said, this could not be done because there is no strong legislation to oblige all countries to use it. until a new structure is established, based on the same principles, with the same fees and the same collection system, we cannot expect this system to work in europe. i agree with mr higgins that the consumer, the polluter, must pay. this should generate revenue that can be used to fund road renovations and also to finance the remediation of environmental damage that occurs. the european parliament and the commission have already made progress in the area of roaming charges. i think we should follow that path in this case.
on behalf of the ppe group. my respects to emer costello. i'll be honest, it was very polite and we worked well together. the fact that the vast majority of the more than 500 amendments were eventually covered by compromises is obviously his first and foremost merit. i have to say, though, one eye is crying, the other is laughing. one of my eyes is crying because the food aid fund, which was set up in 1987, is a good fund, as evidenced by the fact that 17 countries are participating in it, about 500,000 tons of food are distributed annually, and it's not just good for aid, but it's obviously helped with the sensible disposal of food surpluses. it's a shame that it's going away, and it's a shame that when we're thinking about what to replace it with, we're partly dreaming too big, wanting to do too many things with this fund, all of which we're doing with less money. less money should do more. and i didn't talk about the debate at the time about whether only those who really, really, really need it should participate, or do we want to make it mandatory for everyone? both questions are important. 2.5 billion is obviously not enough. the people's party is clearly in favour of the minimum amount, which is 3.5 billion, because of what we just said. as for compulsory or voluntary participation, it is indeed a test of solidarity. obviously, even if we manage to reach 3.5 billion, i'm telling you, even if we do, it's not looking good for the story yet. but even if we do, the money will be distributed among 28 countries, whereas it is currently distributed among 17. so obviously those who are directly benefiting from it, those who are directly in need of it, they will live in the european union with politicians who speak of solidarity, responsibility, and the future, but they reduce resources and they reduce opportunities. and i believe that's the wrong message. and let me add that things are not going well in the council either, although unfortunately the council is not here for this debate, there is a blocking minority currently blocking the agreement. as far as i know, there are only four countries left that are in favour of exclusive and mandatory participation. so the stakes are going to be whether or not there's going to be a foundation, and at this point, it's very doubtful. so our responsibility, i think, is extraordinary before the vote tomorrow.
i think this is a question that is of paramount importance in the history of the european union. i owe a debt of gratitude to the lady in charge, who has done an excellent job. but i think we're at the point now where we need a strong political message to get this issue resolved. i hope we can all agree that the amount cannot be reduced, as this is a 15-year-old fund that has been working successfully so far. so we have to spend 3.5 billion euros on this going forward. but we have to look at the people, the needy, the poor. it's important to get as many people into the countries as possible and to keep the administrative costs down. finally, i would like to draw your attention to a dogmatic error: whenever i listened to the debate on whether it should be mandatory or voluntary, the word solidarity always came up. i apologize to my fellow members, but solidarity is not a compulsory virtue, it is a voluntary fund for the most deprived, which means that whoever needs it, whoever needs it. it should get more from the fund and from the structural funds all the member states should get the same amount, which is something we cannot talk about now. so now the countries that need it the most get more. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. − it is important to find a well-founded solution in the legal sense, in line with the freedom of movement of the parliament created by the treaty of lisbon. the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts should be specified more precisely and separated from any other possible amendments to the plan. it is important to include a clear reference to the ordinary legislative procedure, stating that this procedure is to be applied to amend any part of the plan except in specific specific cases, and this creates legal certainty. as the report contains technical amendments to existing legal acts, i supported it.
in writing. - this is a true trojan-eating type of presentation. it deals with consumer protection problems that are at first sight eligible for aid, such as the real problem of products marketed under the same brand name in different countries but with different composition and quality. this is the wrapping. the core of the report, however, is found in paragraphs 19 and 20, which show that the commission is seeking to promote measures to create an integrated market that are contrary to the interests of the local economy but far more in line with the expectations of multinational companies. the promotion of e-commerce also does not promote access to the market for local producers. we are again dealing with a subject which implies a reduction in the scope for action by the nation-state, pointing in the direction of a united states of europe, which i always reject, and that is why i did not vote for the report.
in writing. − the directive applies only to civil and commercial matters, not to criminal and civil disputes, although some civil matters may fall within the scope of the provisions of the directive. council directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 establishing minimum common rules on legal aid to facilitate access to justice in cross-border disputes is a very important piece of legislation for european citizens, as it ensures that the less well-off members of society have access to justice in another member state. the only problem is that the directive is not well known, so the task is to make it widely known to the public. in the first instance, measures should be taken to ensure that at least lawyers become aware of the cross-border exemption from costs. it should also be ensured that, if the member state of residence grants the applicant the exemption from costs, the citizen is issued with a certificate to that effect which is accepted by the authorities of the other member state without reassessment of the situation. i voted in favour of the proposal on the grounds of its usefulness.
in writing. − the council directive on legal aid for crossborder disputes has been in force since 2003, but relatively few citizens and legal practitioners are aware of the rights and benefits it provides. the directive is primarily intended to promote access to justice in another member state for the less well-off members of society, for example when exercising their right to free movement. the experience of recent years has shown that an effective information campaign should be launched in all member states in order to ensure that citizens have as wide a range of recourse to the legal aid in cross-border disputes as possible. given that legal aid and training of experts involve costs for member states and that in the current economic environment the financing of such services may be limited in many member states, we call on the commission to provide, where possible, specific resources to ensure that member states are able to provide high-level legal training in legal aid matters.
in writing. − the infringement of intellectual property rights and the resulting multi-billion euro global trade in counterfeit goods are a growing concern, both in terms of the economic consequences for european industry and the risks to the health and safety of consumers. the new regulation will significantly improve the protection of the health and safety of european consumers. the new legislation also includes, for example, rules on how to destroy illegal and dangerous goods entering or transiting the eu, and the possibility of destroying counterfeit and pirated goods without a court order, if the intellectual property right holder agrees and the importer does not object.
in writing. − infringements of intellectual property rights and the global trade in counterfeit goods are increasingly causing headaches for eu decision-makers in the field of industrial and consumer protection. i therefore voted in favour of the new measures which specify exactly how illegal and dangerous products entering or transiting the union are to be destroyed. in the interest of effective implementation, i agree with the desire that the new regulation should not change the rules on intellectual property rights and should not apply to goods transported by passengers for non-commercial purposes.
in writing. − the report on food for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes provides, in my view, a reassuring guarantee for the protection of the european community of approximately 5 million people suffering from food poisoning. the only known treatment for coeliac disease is a lifelong gluten-free diet, and therefore it is of the utmost importance for affected consumers to have reliable information on the gluten content of food. the compromise reached is that the new legislation will ensure that the amendments do not undermine the current level of protection for allergic consumers and will even extend it in some cases. that is why i voted in favour of the second reading agreement.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the framework directive on food intended for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes, which aims at levelling the differences between national legislation relating to foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses, allowing free movement and creating fair conditions of competitions. the general objective of providing a high level of consumer protection as well as the specific provisions with special regard to infant formula and milks are very important. the labelling of infant and follow-on formula will thus not include pictures of infants, or other pictures and texts which may idealise the use of the product. also, milk products intended for young children – from the age of one to three – will be covered by a commission report considering the nutritional needs, the pattern of consumption, the nutritional intake and the levels of exposure to contaminants and pesticides of young children.
in writing. − the recommendation deals with a subject of particular importance to all of us, namely, foods for infants and young children, medicinal foods. today, when the same multinational companies manufacture food additives and products that are only supposed to alleviate the symptoms of the diseases caused by these additives, but are called medicines, it would be time to rebuild the entire regulatory system. the only real solution to the problem of toxins is to educate people and to promote self-sufficiency and small-scale farming. i'm very supportive of that. the material presented is correct within the limits of the severely limited possibilities and represents progress, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − national regulations on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses differ widely, which impedes the free movement of goods, places unnecessary regulatory burdens on food businesses and thus hinders the functioning of the internal market. it is important to establish rules for all specific food types on the basis of the latest objective scientific and research data in the interests of safety and efficacy. during the negotiations, parliament succeeded in securing the inclusion of the list of food additives as an annex to the basic act and its updating in the future by means of delegated acts.
in writing. − i supported the report because i agree with its recommendations on minimum health and safety requirements for workers' exposure to risks arising from physical factors (electromagnetic fields). we have a fundamental duty to guarantee the physical safety of our employees, and i think we have to be extremely firm on this issue. the single market is not only about effective competition and the competitiveness of the european economy, but also about the safety of europe's people and the shared responsibility of european countries towards their workers. however, i agree that the introduction of certain minimum requirements can reduce distortions of competition. i think that the commission has put a good proposal before parliament and that, together with the proposals of the rapporteur and the other members, the report is worthy of support. it is important that the directive sets only minimum requirements, and each member state should aim to go beyond these minimum requirements.
in writing. − in 2006, doctors informed the european commission that the implementation of the directive would have a very negative impact on the use and development of magnetic resonance imaging (mri). the setting of extremely strict exposure limits would limit the applicability of mri, which is essential for the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases. by setting strict exposure limit values and introducing exemptions for mri and related activities, this proposal strikes a balance between protecting the health and safety of workers and enabling the substantial advances in research and healthcare that can be made possible by mri technology. in view of the risks to workers from the use of mri, the health sector has already put in place stringent precautions, which are strictly monitored. although the text, despite the corrections, is still too complex, difficult to understand, i support its adoption.
in writing. - unfortunately, as a result of the treaty of trianon, we are not a landlocked country, so the problems of saltwater fisheries affect us only indirectly as consumers at the moment. the development of a new long-term capital plan is seen by many as a temporary solution and there is therefore a continuing need to develop existing plans. the proposed amendments aim to strengthen cooperation between scientific experts in fisheries and the industry. the report is a work in progress, and i support it.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on organised crime, corruption and money laundering at its plenary session today. the report calls for more effective cooperation in the fight against organised crime. this is also important because the increasing intensity of cybercrime has created a whole new structure for the commission of crimes. i therefore consider it important that the legislative framework at eu level and the related operational tools allowing member states to cooperate against cybercrime and organised crime are more effective and efficient than ever before.
in writing. − today, organised crime is no longer a local or regional problem but operates as a global, inter-departmental network. the european union as a supranational organisation can solve this problem. the negative effects of organised crime affect all areas of the economy and society. criminal groups can gain economic influence that reduces competitiveness and increases illegal competitive advantage, thus undermining the success of honest businesses. corruption, money laundering and tax evasion are some of the most common examples of organised crime. in a report drawn up on the initiative of the european parliament, the rapporteur points out the tools needed to tackle organised crime. i supported the report because all such initiatives and any action against organised crime are welcome and should be supported.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of the report, the interim report. i believe that the report adequately presents the current problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the crisis has exacerbated these problems and we must make every effort to reduce crime. i think it is very important to strengthen cooperation and the exchange of information between member states, and i also think it is important to take steps in the area of customer due diligence. i agree with the rapporteur that the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is also important for economic growth. i myself believe that a proper level of information on the potential dangers to citizens is essential to curb cybercrime. the commission should therefore develop principles and administrative guidelines on the proper application of transfer pricing, as transfer pricing is one of the most serious problems in the field of taxation today.
in writing. − in the period 2014-2020, particular attention should be paid to ensuring that the social housing programme remains eligible under the new structural and cohesion funds regulations as part of the partnership programmes. the creation of social housing is one of the means to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. the economic and financial crisis has, among other things, left many european citizens unable to afford access to adequate housing. i welcome this own-initiative report, because solving the problem of social housing solves a number of economic, social and societal problems.
in writing. − social housing not only contributes to fulfilling urgent social needs but may also foster economic recovery through the increase of orders for both construction and renovation. member states should therefore start a dialogue with the construction industry in order to develop a better business environment and regulation for social housing, with special regard to the establishment of building targets, the arrangement of infrastructural costs and supply of development land. social housing, however, not only contributes to fulfilling social needs and the vitalisation of local job creation but is also an effective tool for alleviating health problems that stem from overcrowding and poor living conditions. the financial instruments of the structural funds need to be further mobilised to this end and member states should seek ways to apply the modified european regional development fund regulation in order to provide housing for marginalised communities. it would also be beneficial for all member states to ratify the revised european social charter – with special regard to its article 31 – as well as to give social housing investment a place in national reform programmes and to reflect their planned housing measures in their national roma inclusion strategies.
in writing. − enhancing occupational mobility is one of the significant challenges that the eu faces in developing its labour market. education and training systems in all member states need to be adapted to meet the requirement of the job market and the knowledge-based society. although the economic crisis resulted in the dismantling of many workplaces, there are over two million unfilled vacancies in the eu because there are no workers with the required skills in the local job market. complementing the formal education system, extensive vocational education and training are necessary therefore to acquire the cross-cutting skills that are most sought after in the labour market. it is important especially in the case of women who leave their jobs temporarily for childbirth and taking care of their families and find it extremely difficult to return to the labour market. most member states failed to implement on-the-job training opportunities and, as a result, many individuals leave jobs – including public employment – without any additional skills. vocational training must therefore not only be easily accessible and career-oriented but must also incorporate a strong focus on work-based learning to facilitate the transition of young women – especially those with disadvantages – to the workforce.
in writing. − the current system of european electronic road toll systems introduced by the commission does not work properly, as it has not led to the expected development of interoperable european electronic road toll services between member states, and therefore needs to be transformed. the commission should support the wider adoption of distance-based systems as opposed to time-based systems. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not distort competition and affects trade between member states. the way to solve the problem would be to regulate the issue by regulation.
in writing. − the report identifies the key actions to be taken in the strategy for a european electronic toll service and a light vehicle registration system. i think that the european road charging system is another important step towards the single market. i agree that it is for the member states to decide whether they want to introduce tolls and to set the amount of the tolls. i also agree with the rapporteur that the market approach used by the commission has proved ineffective and that policy action is therefore needed to accelerate the introduction of a european electronic toll system and to achieve this in the near future. i myself believe that the commission should study the financial aspects and conditions under which the european electronic ticketing system can become a functioning reality and should draw up appropriate legislative proposals on interoperability.
in writing. − i do not think it is worthwhile to focus on eets in its current form, because in a few years' time, tolling will probably be based on a different technology. no concessions can be made in relation to data protection and respect for privacy. the use of online payment systems is essential both for convenience and for comparability. the 'polluter pays' principle and distance charging may be applied, but only if the administrative burden on hauliers, smes and motorists is reduced. the weekly price of the licence plates is often four or five times higher than the annual rent, which constitutes discrimination. we need to end this situation right now. the creation of a unified system is encouraged, but coercion is not acceptable, because it would mean a severe reduction in the scope of the nation state, which i always reject, and that is why i did not vote for the report.
blue-card question. – i wonder whether you would agree with the statement that most of the reasons you suggested are caused partly by the european union and the united states, which wage unjust, terrible wars, and lots of those asylum-seekers have to leave their home countries – their homelands – because of these wars. if we want to treat not just the symptoms but the causes, we should do something to end those wars. also, do you agree with the fact that it is mostly the poorest people of the european union who have to live together with those asylum seekers who have lots and lots of social and psychological issues? it is easy for us to talk, but the burden must be taken by the poorest.
blue-card question. – my question concerns the sharing of responsibility. i fully agree with this as a principle – responsibility should be shared – but who exactly shares this responsibility? it is not the rich and privileged of europe but mainly the poorest people. part of my question is: when it comes to sharing of responsibility, my country, hungary, imposed sharing of responsibility for the burdens of the crisis on multinational companies and banks, but then the whole european union and the troika and everybody resisted and said: ‘this is terrible’. so what exactly is the fundamental principle of sharing of responsibilities? how would you define that? who should share responsibility with whom?
i want to thank you all for your work. this is a very important, very exciting subject that i've been listening to with great interest. and that's because i'm from hungary, and we've released 200,000 refugees into the world since 1956, and we're still grateful to this day that that was accepted. it's a lot of responsibility, and it's very difficult to find the optimal balance between different interests. i hope this works. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 june 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. today's debate and wednesday's vote will bring to an end a process that has been going on for years, as the interrelated asylum reports complete the common european asylum system. this is due to the efforts of the rapporteurs and the eu presidencies of recent years, including the hungarian one, whose work has helped to reach compromises acceptable to the parties. in the future, this will reduce the disparities in asylum systems between member states, which will provide a number of new legal guarantees, access to information and a faster, more transparent (examination) procedure, with due regard for the dignity and rights of asylum seekers. in the context of the directives, the approach to minors and unaccompanied children is particularly important, as it provides better protection for refugee children and their best interests are at the heart of the whole procedure. but the other side of the coin, the national side, is that it will be easier in the future to screen out asylum seekers who want to circumvent the system, thanks to better coordination. in the context of eurodac, it is welcome that in future crime prevention authorities will also be able to access data that may be linked to cross-border crime or organised crime, subject to strict conditions and the protection of personal data.
the following point is inserted after point (a) of the joint debate on the reports by carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the establishment of an evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the schengen acquis (10273/2013 c7-0160/2013 2010/0312/nle)) - (a7-0226/2012), and by renate weber, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders (com ((2011) 0560 - c7-0248/2011 - 2011/0242 (cod)) - (a7-0200/2012)
blue-card question. – with all due respect to mr batten and our other western european friends, as an east european let me ask you if you want to reconsider basically the whole idea of the free movement of workers and free movement of people within the european union? would you kindly reconsider the free movement of capital as well? in that case, we east europeans are more than happy to close our borders to western capital and get our own economy back.
the most important message of the agreement outlined in recent weeks is that we have managed to preserve and strengthen the union's most tangible achievement, the schengen system for the free movement of persons, while making it, we hope, more transparent and effective. i would like to congratulate my colleague carlos coelho and mrs weber on their outstanding work in this rather difficult negotiation process, which has resulted in a compromise that all three eu institutions consider to be a success. improving the efficiency of the schengen evaluation mechanism and further strengthening schengen governance is positive and should be supported. i believe that the achievement of clear benefits for citizens has been reinforced, since it is only in exceptional circumstances, for serious reasons, that a member state may temporarily introduce border controls, but it may do so if the security of its citizens so requires. however, it will allow the commission to take active action as a last resort, after a thorough examination, if a member state is unable to meet the expected conditions at a given external border. i also welcome the result achieved in eliminating the double standard, which provides for equal treatment between member states in the application of the evaluation mechanism in the future. this is also important because it contributes to the further increase in trust between member states, which i feel we greatly need.
it seems that in exceptional circumstances one of the main freedoms of the european union, the freedom of movement of workers and citizens, could be suspended, since border controls could be reinstated within the schengen area as well, as parliament will be voting on tomorrow. it was not a secret from our western european friends that this was necessary because we eastern europeans were dangerous. my question is: if in exceptional circumstances the free movement of citizens and the free movement of labour can be suspended, then can we have the chance - and we ask for it to be - that the free movement of capital can also be suspended in exceptional circumstances? these exceptional circumstances are present in my country, hungary, for example, where poverty is huge, and hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are being destroyed one by one, given that they cannot compete with the influx of western capital. is it possible, therefore, to suspend the requirement to treat them equally and to give preferential treatment to domestic operators, i.e. to grant them a more favourable treatment, now that exceptional circumstances have arisen?
first of all, i would like to thank my rapporteur for the excellent work he has done and in particular for putting the consumer's point of view at the centre of this report. i also agree with the rapporteur that in the fifth year of the crisis it is really timely to recognise that we need a well-functioning and truly transparent competition policy, perhaps even more so than in previous years. but it should also be seen that in the series of responses to the crisis, while strict fiscal discipline is clearly essential, without a regulated economic policy, growth and a regulated market, without a controlled market, we cannot talk about economic growth, we cannot talk about the european economy being able to start again. i would like to highlight three elements of the report which i consider particularly important: the first is the question of state aid. it's important that the reporter mentioned this. and i'm more than happy to do it, because to me, it just proves that there are no easy answers to crisis management. the second element is the issue of bank loans, this element shows that it really doesn't work yet, we still have to do. and the third is the question of the energy market, and the question of regulated competition, the question of consumer approach in this monopolistic market. i think the report has focused well on these issues, and i will support it in any way i can.
during the crisis, instead of being dressed as european workers, the member states helped the financial sector. in spain alone, 100 billion euros were approved last year to help the banking system, and now member states want to allocate only 6 billion euros for the european youth guarantee over seven years. it's a shame. this attitude has disappointed young people across europe, including in my country, hungary, where youth unemployment is 28%, the 9th worst in the union. i call on the european council to allocate at least eur 21 billion to the youth guarantee, as estimated by the international labour organisation, and to launch most of the programmes as a matter of urgency.
a joyous event has taken place in hungary. the commission considered that after nine years, hungary could finally be brought out of the excessive deficit procedure. this is good news for hungary and good news for the european union. good news for hungary, for the hungarian people, because cohesion funds are not in danger, and good news for all those who have shown solidarity in this process: big companies, banks. this is good news for the european union, because hungary is a reliable partner and is able to finance itself on the financial markets. the hungarian government took over this opportunity in 2010 in an extremely difficult situation, and this decision, this recommendation of the commission, proved that hungary is on the right track. the hungarian government will consistently adopt all the proposals necessary to restore it to its rightful place and to enable it to strengthen the economy. however, the situation is not so rosy. my fellow officers! mr. president, i have to ask you... so my question is this: do you think the facts are sufficient to convince the skeptics and the biased attackers that hungary is on the right track?
in writing. the current financial and economic crisis has resulted in high unemployment, especially among young people. this is a very important problem that needs to be addressed because it is not only a social and political problem, but also a loss of economic power and a disappointment of the younger generations with the current system, in our country and in the union as a whole. my colleagues, the commissioners and the minister have mentioned a number of programmes to tackle unemployment (from the youth guarantee to the erasmus for all project), including support for smes, easier access to loans (e.g. by capitalising the eib), and improving their competitiveness. and indeed, not only in hungary, but in the european union as a whole, a significant part of the labour market (99% of european enterprises, 85% of jobs, two-thirds of private sector jobs) is provided by smes. addressing these two challenges is of strategic importance in order to help europe emerge from the economic crisis, to restore faith and confidence in the european economy and to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. we all have a responsibility, including the irish presidency, to the council as a whole, to resolve these problems, and that is why we all have high expectations for the european council of 27 and 28 june.
in writing. – one of the most definitive issues challenging the future of the european union is the life prospects of the marginalised millions in our union, among them the 10 million roma. the stumbling of the world economy and the debt crisis strangling our union have accelerated those harmful tendencies, due to which fewer and fewer people are able to maintain a proper standard of living and, for more and more european citizens, even everyday subsistence represents an insoluble challenge. we must not leave our most vulnerable citizens unprotected and we must not underestimate the crucial importance of social inclusion for retaining and developing the european economy. boosting employment and social inclusion must therefore remain a priority and member states must step up their efforts to tackle the social consequences of the crisis and to fight poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. − the croatian government's nominee was heard by the european parliament's committee on budgetary control on monday 27 may 2013. following the hearing in committee, a majority of meps decided by secret ballot not to support the appointment of the croatian nominee as a member of the court of auditors. both the pp working group and the group of the european people's party approved this decision and in the plenary vote of 22 june 2013, the pp deputies did not support the nomination of neven mates as a candidate for the european court of auditors.
in writing. − the candidate of the romanian government was heard by the european parliament's committee on budgetary control on monday 27 may 2013. following the hearing in the committee, the representatives of the people's party in the committee decided not to support the appointment of the romanian candidate as a member of the court of auditors. both the pp working group and the group of the european people's party approved this decision and in the plenary vote of 22 june 2013, the pp deputies did not support the nomination of mr pufan as a candidate for the european court of auditors.
in writing. - the report concerns the appointment of mr george pufan as a member of the court of auditors. george pufan has held senior positions at the romanian court of auditors for more than 15 years and has been its secretary general since 2002. in addition to his native romanian, he speaks french and english. he answered the questions put to him at his hearing in a european spirit, for example that he would be independent of the delegating country and any other possible influences. the council proposes to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors. unfortunately, we have not had a good experience with romanian officials in general, but the same can be said for those from other former antant countries in general. but professionally, i have to accept him, so i voted for him.
in writing. − the union and other maritime countries have shared fisheries in international waters on the basis of international treaties and general rules of international law. when a country's fishermen go beyond the areas in defined international waters where they would no longer have the right to fish, or fish more than they have a quota for, then illegal, unreported fishing is taking place, which is essentially fishing piracy. the legislation seeks to provide solutions to these situations, in particular by empowering the commission to take additional action in relation to implementing acts of the legislation. i believe that the union must use all possible means to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. − today's vote marks the end of a process that has been going on for years, as the interrelated asylum reports complete the common european asylum system. this is due to the efforts of the rapporteurs and the eu presidencies of recent years, including the hungarian one, whose work has helped to reach compromises acceptable to the parties. the amendment to the reception directive will create a simpler and more comprehensive system (in line with the other adopted community acquis) for the conditions to be met by a refugee after he/she has acquired status. the directive also continues to take into account the adequate protection of the fundamental rights of asylum seekers. the amendment should provide member states with a better opportunity to remedy any abuse affecting their reception systems. the adoption of the directive also highlights the approach to minors and unaccompanied children, which provides better protection for refugee children and sets the tone for the whole procedure.
in writing. − respect for human rights is one of the cornerstones of the european union as an organisation. it has a duty to guarantee fair and equitable treatment for asylum seekers. like the rapporteur, i support the commission's intention to ensure that asylum seekers are provided with the necessary quality of care in all member states and i regret that the application of the previous directive has not been very successful. i think that the expectations of detention are extremely important, and that the resolution of this issue is one of the most important issues in the refugee issue. legal aid is also an important element of the regulation. in a legal framework, it is inconceivable that refugees should not receive adequate legal assistance. in my view, the report sets out the expectations for the treatment of refugees in a sufficiently comprehensive and detailed way. i hope that the implementation of this directive will be more effective than the previous one.
in writing. − i would like to welcome this report aiming at the better harmonisation of protection under the common european asylum system, with special regard to the objective of providing higher standards of treatment for asylum seekers in reception. the provisions laid out in this proposal – e.g. those regarding persons with special needs, establishing the opportunity to contact social workers and religious visitors, or providing free legal assistance – represent an important step forward in the asylum package, harmonising national rules on reception conditions in line with international law. it is very important that according to the new rules member state authorities must rapidly direct victims of torture to a care centre that is appropriate to their situation. the proposal also contains a guarantee for the access of minor asylum seekers to education and for unaccompanied minors to be supervised by legal guardians who advise and protect the child as well as ensure that all decisions are taken in the child’s best legal, social, health, psychological, material and educational interests.
in writing. − today's vote marks the end of a process that has been going on for years, as the interrelated asylum reports complete the common european asylum system. this is due to the efforts of the rapporteurs and the eu presidencies of recent years, including the hungarian one, whose work has helped to reach compromises acceptable to the parties. the amendment of the dublin directive is welcome as it addresses the shortcomings of the system, ensures that its rules are consistent with the community acquis adopted in the meantime and will seek to address situations where the asylum system of a member state is subject to exceptionally high pressure. the adoption of the directive is particularly marked by the approach to minors and unaccompanied children, which provides better protection for refugee children and sets the tone for the whole procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. i believe that the proposals contained in the report adequately address the shortcomings of the dublin system. i agree that the basic principles of the dublin system should be maintained, but at the same time its functioning should be improved in the light of experience. the proposal amends the previous system in the relevant areas. i believe that we can make progress on the question of asylum applications lodged by third-country nationals in one of the member states. i consider it of paramount importance to address situations where pressure is placed on the reception capacity and asylum systems of a country. close international cooperation is needed on asylum issues. the proposal responds to the change in the concept of applicants for subsidiary protection following the adoption of the previous system. it is also positive that the commission's proposal has taken account of a number of parliament's proposals. i think it's a problem that the report is taking so long to be adopted.
in writing. − today's vote marks the end of a process that has been going on for years, as the interrelated asylum reports complete the common european asylum system. this is due to the efforts of the rapporteurs and the eu presidencies of recent years, including the hungarian one, whose work has helped to reach compromises acceptable to the parties. the amendment of the procedural directive similar to the reception creates a clearer and simplified system which continues to allow asylum seekers the right to an effective and fair procedure and further expands its content. the fact that the text now adopted allows for more cost-effective application in the member states is also not to be overlooked. the adoption of the directive also highlights the approach to minors and unaccompanied children, which provides better protection for refugee children and sets the tone for the whole procedure.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of the report as the proposal would bring about a higher degree of harmonisation in the asylum procedures of the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. i believe that there is a great need to simplify procedures, which this document also helps to do. efficiency is particularly important in these years when states have to consider all spending. i think that this is another aspect of the initiative that can be supported. i think it is important to alleviate the pressure on the asylum systems of some member states. prevention of abuse is also necessary and i hope that the proposal will be a step forward in this respect. i am also pleased that this document regulates the protection of applicants with special needs. i think that a proper compromise has been reached on this proposal.
in writing. the european parliament, with the support of the group of the european people's party, voted in favour of a report on a new eu fund for the most deprived, which would replace the food aid programme in operation since 1987. this means that, after successful consultation with the council, the european commission can finally set up the new instrument to continue to provide adequate assistance to the eu citizens most in need. the fund, following negotiations with the eu's co-legislators, is expected to be allocated between eur 2.5 and eur 3.5 billion. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the creation and operation of a fund to help those in need is of fundamental importance to us who live in the impoverished, exploited and colonized end of the union. at least for now, and until we have a truly national leadership that can actually improve the country's situation, if necessary at the cost of leaving the eu, instead of just folding and folding. although the german, swedish and british authorities consider that the draft regulation violates the principle of subsidiarity, the creation of such a fund to support the poor is beneficial for our region, because it does not take away the competence of the member states, but rather increases resources. so, of course, i voted for it.
in writing. − in today's vote i supported the adoption of the eurodac section of the asylum package, because i consider it an important pillar of the common european asylum system. i am pleased that the system has been built with the dignity of asylum seekers and the better protection of their rights as a priority. however, i believe that in parallel, emphasis should be placed on ensuring that the system now in place is not susceptible to circumvention and that the eurodac data can be used by member states under strict conditions and with respect for the protection of personal data, as this could provide the crime prevention authorities with an opportunity to investigate cross-border crime and criminals or to combat organised crime.
in writing. − i supported the report because it provides adequate answers to the problems of how eurodac operates. it is no accident that problems have arisen with the practical functioning of this system, since it is not easy to coordinate the tasks involved. at the same time, it is very important that the system functions properly, as certain organised crime networks exploit the asylum system. it is therefore essential that this proposal allows national authorities and europol to have access to data on individuals in certain cases. of course, this can only be done with adequate safeguards, and i believe that the proposal contains those safeguards. i believe that this proposal will significantly improve the efficiency of the system. i think it is important that the report also addresses the problems of deadlines. i myself consider it essential that the results of eurodac continue to be monitored and evaluated on a regular basis in order to identify any problems and, where appropriate, to respond to changes in the asylum situation.
in writing. − the accounting directive addresses issues related to the annual and consolidated financial statements of european limited liability companies. the main objective of the proposal is to harmonise accounting rules and to reduce the administrative burden, particularly for smes. in my view, in order to increase transparency and accountability, it is important to extend the scope of the directive to all sectors other than the extractive industries and timber. i am voting in favour of an agreement at first reading, following lengthy negotiations between the eu institutions.
in writing. − the legislative proposal is part of the eu initiative on responsible business. the central objective of the reform is to promote transparency and openness in financial markets and higher standards of corporate governance. the review of the transparency directive is closely linked to the amendment of the accounting directive, which aims to ensure a high level of investor confidence. the amendment of the requirements for quarterly reports reduces the bureaucratic burden for smes, while the reporting obligations contribute to informed investor decisions.
in writing. − i am pleased that parliament today voted by a large majority to amend the schengen borders code, which sets out rules on the border control of persons crossing the union's external and internal borders. the current amendment, which is based on the experience gained in the first five years of the code, will remove a number of technical obstacles, clarify the application and interpretation of the legislation and eliminate misunderstandings arising from imprecise definitions. this will simplify many rules, improve security checks at the external borders and further broaden the scope of the acquis on free movement.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted today, in plenary, by a large majority the european council decision establishing the distribution of seats among the member states for the next ep term, 2014-2019. the amendment to the previous allocation was necessary, on the one hand, to adapt it to the requirements of the lisbon treaty, which has been in force since the last european elections, and, on the other, to provide seats for the eleven representatives of croatia, which will join the eu in july. in accordance with the procedure laid down in the treaty, the european parliament voted on its proposal for its composition in march 2014. the draft decision was subsequently adopted by the european council, by a unanimous decision of the member states, and enters into force with the present approval of the ep. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the european parliament is still dominated by the old member states, the so-called centre. it is very unfortunate that the capacity of the disadvantaged countries, which joined later, to act as lobbyists is further reduced. as a result of this proposal, hungary has one fewer seats in the ep, which has a negative impact on our already very limited possibilities. that's why i voted no.
in writing. − the european parliament has consultative powers only for the 2014-2020 period in the field of regional policies. so the absence of a voice in the decisions of the elected body is unacceptable under the rules of democracy. we know, of course, that the current practice of democracy is very far from the ideal of true democracy. it is agreed that regional aid can only be effective if it is used sparingly and proportionately and concentrated in the most disadvantaged regions of the eu, where it is most needed. that is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, as it touches on almost all important aspects of europe's economic policy, from energy policy, the state aid system and the greener economy to the completion of the full internal market. i am also convinced that food market speculation, which is also highlighted in the report, not only contributes to the spread of poor quality food throughout europe, but also contributes to the maintenance of the black economy, and therefore we must pay greater attention to this. the commission should also monitor price distortions in mortgage markets because i believe that this phenomenon is one of the most significant artificial barriers to europe's economic start-up and return to real economic growth. finally, i supported the report because it seeks to further increase the co-legislative role of the ep in competition policy, which is important only because it is the parliament closest to the european citizens and at the same time to the economic realities that surround them.
in writing. − this material is a genuine neoliberal hoax, whose main message is that competition is good for the union and its member states and should be promoted in all areas, including services of general economic interest. as we can see in the so-called crisis of the last five years, we are dealing with absolute falsehoods. if we want to go deeper, the international banking community's game of lending and then shrinking funds is actually shaping the state of the world economy. the report does not even scratch the surface, nor does it give rise to a complex assessment of individual sectors, including employment problems, for example, and the fundamental fact that equal conditions of competition between non-equals lead to increased inequalities. the union's competition policy represents the interests of the strongest central countries, and within them only of multinational corporations and the social strata associated with them. weaker countries are being forced into austerity policies that stifle local economies, as the imf itself acknowledged in one of its recent papers. the solution is not so-called free competition, but the preferential aid to individual countries, which was even in the original treaty of rome, but was removed by the maastricht treaty and replaced by the excessive deficit procedure. i had to vote no on the basis of the above argument.
in writing. − the eu's social policy is a key element in its employment policy and in its effective management of unemployment. in this context, we must also pay particular attention to the situation of young unemployed people, as the data on this issue remain disappointing. the resolution adopted today is intended to provide a sound basis for the work of the forthcoming european council in june.
in writing. − youth unemployment is a key issue for the future of both my country and europe. the socialists, the people's party and the greens share a similar view: youth unemployment can be tackled by education, by introducing automatic stabilizing elements into economic policy, by establishing minimum unemployment benefits. the alde group wants to help tackle youth unemployment by improving the internal market and vocational training, the ecr wants to help tackle youth unemployment by introducing flexible wages, while the efd believes that it is up to the member states to tackle unemployment. what they have in common is that they want to cure what caused the problem by further deepening the liberal market economy, by continuing the austerity policies that have been in place. the left (gue/ngl) has a very different view, if it correctly explains that the huge unemployment is precisely the result of the neoliberal policies of the union and that they must be changed to reduce unemployment. i agree with the latter view, so i accepted it, while i rejected all the others.
mr president, like you i am deeply worried about the latest developments in turkey. freedom of speech and the right to protest are fundamental values that no country should curtail, especially a country wishing to accede to the eu. therefore, i would urge the turkish government to open dialogue with civil society and take measures to ensure that such brutal use of force against its own citizens does not happen again. if prime minister erdoğan is serious about engaging in sustainable dialogue, he should stop his divisive speeches and meet the representatives of associations present at taksim square, and not just hand-pick a few of them. moreover, broad cross-party talks should be launched in order to tackle the lingering issues of freedom of expression, freedom of association and equal access to a fair trial. turkey is a key partner to the eu and has a crucial role to play in the region. it will not be able to fulfil this role if the turkish government is not willing or able to address those issues. the eu should remain firm when it comes to defending those fundamental values.
in writing. despite the efforts made to eliminate geographical disparities in the european external action service, we are far from solving the problem. as the new member states are at a disadvantage in many respects in the selection process, we could not expect the issue of the selection process to be resolved at all levels overnight. but it is important that we at least try to do so. the foreign service can still be fairly owned by all member states, as the proportion of staff from the new member states is still much smaller than that of staff from the old 15. in fact, the majority of staff in the new member states are below the level of heads of delegation. i call on the high representative, catherine ashton, to bring about a real balance at the highest levels of the service as soon as possible. furthermore, take steps to ensure that the lower-ranking diplomats of the new member states have an equal chance of entering the eeas selection processes. i consider it appropriate to state that attempts by member states to interfere in the selection process should be limited. in recent months, i have unfortunately become aware of several unfortunate cases where diplomats expelled for political reasons in hungary have been excluded from the admission procedure in the absence of support from the member states. this shows that the eu regulation is clearly wrong! it is unacceptable that the current procedure allows any member state government to prevent the recruitment of senior diplomats into the foreign service for political reasons!
mr president, commissioner, i am quite certain that everyone in this house fully supports media freedom as an essential condition of a properly functioning democracy. the media possess the power to call to account other actors in the political process. what the report does not touch on, though, is what happens when the media do not use their power with full attention to the responsibility that goes with power; the power to move public opinion, for example, and the power to act in a quasi-judicial capacity. this problem of accountability is rather less important in countries without democracy or where democracy is under attack. there, what the media do is vital in sustaining civil society and making public information that the rulers prefer to keep secret. but the situation is much less straightforward in societies with a strong democratic infrastructure. there the media must act with a markedly higher standard of responsibility precisely because they operate in a democratic environment. yet journalism in democratic society has changed. i speak as a former journalist. the media are less discerning, less committed to original investigative journalism and are much less motivated to keep clear blue water between reporting and passing judgment. all in all, there is every reason for the media to be subject to the same rules of democracy that all other political actors must observe.
it is rather odd to have to curtail speaking opportunities in a debate on media freedom but i will do it if you do not observe the speaking time.
i should like to inform everybody that at the end of the debate mr piebalgs will reply on behalf of the commission and on behalf of ms ashton.
the lives of all people are of equal value and importance regardless of where they live, their age, or their nationality. human rights defenders believe that parliament has the strongest voice among the eu institutions in tackling human rights abuses in third countries. that is why i am very sorry that today's occasion, when very serious issues should have been discussed at length, was used to analyze the situation of the hungarian media again and again. i recommend to everyone to go to hungary, turn on the tv, watch the news, read the newspaper, and then you will see, you will be convinced of what hungarian press freedom is like, and that you do not have to fear it in this way here, because i can not appreciate it otherwise than as a political game. but to return to what we should be discussing here today, it is essential that parliament cooperate with the foreign service in order to find a tangible solution to the problems we have raised, the serious problems in the area of the protection of rights in third countries. i would also like to welcome the recommendations of my colleague, mr andrikiené, on the council's document on religious freedom. i consider it very important that the union should speak out against persecution of the christian churches and stand up for and defend these religious rights. "it's not enough to ask, you have to listen", says a report by save the children, now in its 20th year. we must listen to children, to national communities whose use of their mother tongue and traditions are in danger, and the list could go on and on. i hope we can become more effective in both listening and acting.
mr president, i am very happy to see stavros, my former colleagues and my former minister here. democracy cannot exist – inside the eu or outside – without free, independent and pluralistic media. it is therefore with growing concern that we witness increasing threats of a different nature against press freedom across the world. nothing, not even the fight against terrorism, can be used as a pretext for hampering press freedom and media pluralism. such measures will not achieve their objective in any case, but they will definitely undermine democratic structures. we have seen the key role of the media in the democratic transition of the arab world. facilitating free and equal access to information for everyone can protect and strengthen democracy, the rule of law and the enforcement of fundamental human rights. in order for the eu to remain credible and contribute to safeguarding press freedom and media pluralism, it should lead by example on the world stage. the eu needs a coherent and strategic vision on the issue of press freedom in order to be able to efficiently promote these values in other parts of the world among our international partners, when it becomes necessary. but everybody must put their own house in order. therefore, the eu must be willing and able to make sure that these fundamental values are respected within its borders.
in writing. i welcome the report by mr kaczmarek, which is of paramount importance for the future of eu policies related to the mdgs. the report is very accurate in its coverage of disabled people in several places. i don't have the decency to put any particular social group in the foreground, but i think that people with disabilities in the mdg target countries are disadvantaged for a number of reasons, whether you think about children with disabilities or women with disabilities. that is why i myself support the focus on areas of potential for outbreaks after 2015, as outlined in the report, such as the elimination of child labour, education and discrimination. i also propose that the provisions of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was ratified by the eu in the meantime, be taken into account after 2015.
in writing. − the digital revolution has increased the role of innovative products, services and data held by public administrations. i agree with the general tendency to make data used by the public sector accessible to external users in order to use information effectively. i therefore voted in favour of facilitating the external use of public sector information across the union by harmonising rules and removing obstacles. in the case of appeal proceedings, i agree with the proposal that the independent body referred to could be the national court. i consider it important for the achievement of the objectives that member states have sufficient time to transpose the amended directive. i therefore voted in favour of a two-year transposition deadline.
in writing. − the eu's foreign service was launched in 2011 as an initial success of the eu's foreign policy. we can be less proud that by 2013 we had not yet succeeded in ensuring that the principle of geographical balance was applied to the appointment of directors. i am convinced that professional competence and expertise are not dependent on national membership. i therefore consider it essential that the foreign service leadership ensure appropriate proportionality between the appointments of member states at all levels of the organisation.
in writing. − promoting and defending freedom of religion and belief must be part of the european union’s external policies, especially regarding the widespread worldwide discrimination affecting different groups – among them many christians – outside the eu. to retain the credibility of the european union’s external actions and its fostering the fulfilment of human rights globally, we must clearly condemn all forms of violence and discrimination based on religion or belief. the recommendations to the council also foresee the provision that eu financial instruments could be mobilized both as an incentive and as a deterrent, through the freezing of funds. i truly hope that after the foreign affairs council adopts the recommendations, they will contribute to promoting to full respect for religious freedom worldwide.
i'm sorry, but i'm not sure. mr seeber's excellent report on improving water quality is a very important european issue. it is also extremely important for hungary to have community regulation, since all rivers in hungary originate from outside the country and the quality of our waters can only be maintained by regulation at european level. we experienced this in 2000 on the eve of the tisza cyanide disaster. it is also very important to improve the quality of water within our countries. we have already achieved a lot since joining the eu in 2004, yet 2.5 million hungarians live in areas where the quality of drinking water is inadequate. especially in the southern low countries, the health limits for arsenic and nitrate are extremely high. therefore, this directive is in the interest of all eu citizens, including hungarians.
we are pleased to welcome you to croatia. unfortunately, their joy is countered by growing disillusionment and declining voter turnout across the union. perhaps the eurosceptics will be decisive in the next cycle. it adds to the frustration of citizens when two ministers are forced to protest in paris against the political pressure of the european commission that goes beyond the treaties. it is not wise for commissioners to attend conferences on which they cannot speak, because this also increases mistrust. it is not good when the relationship between a member state and a commissioner deteriorates to the point, as in the case of hungary and vice-president reding, that even the absurd accusations against the commissioner seem credible. last week's agreement on the financial framework reflected the union's values of mutual understanding and willingness to compromise. this is what we all have to return to who are interested in a successful europe.
mr. president, i have to go. in romania, the socialist-liberal government of victor ponta intends to create eight large administrative regions, which, while completely ignoring the traditional historical regions, are clearly aimed at merging the transylvanian hungarian regions into romanian-majority areas. during the 1968 provincial reforms, even the chauvinist ceaușescu did not dare to do this to us. and in 1989 the communist dictator was caught up in a violent land-reorganization plan. we transylvanian hungarians do not want to suffer the same fate as the germans and jews of romania. the european union cannot stand by and watch the regionalisation and assimilation policies of post-communist romania, disguised as being euro-compliant.
important steps have been taken in recent days with regard to serbia. one was the decision by the council of europe to open accession negotiations with that country by january 2014 at the latest. the second step that took place in serbia would have been unthinkable even months ago. i am thinking of the joint hungarian and serbian heads of state's main drive last week at csurog in vojvodina, the historic site jointly erected by the two states in memory of the serb victims of the 1942 raid and the hungarian victims of the 1944 reprisals. the two nations, represented by their heads of state, have formally apologized for past crimes against each other. the serbian parliament had previously condemned in a statement the 1944-1945 massacres in vojvodina and the war decisions taken in the spirit of collective guilt, which collectively stamped the hungarian community in vojvodina. the hungarian head of state apologized to the serbian parliament for the execution of innocent serbs by the hungarians. symbolic acts like this are always the hardest first step. they are only truly valuable if the next steps also help coexistence, if they make the daily lives of both hungarians and serbs really better.
first of all, i would like to start by congratulating you on the conclusions of the council meeting. it's a final agreement on some very important issues, and a lot of them are forward-looking. i would like to congratulate croatia on its accession and on the opening of the next accession negotiations, and i would like to say first of all that i welcome the fact that the council's conclusions have, perhaps for the first time, proposed a complex approach to crisis management, a complex approach, recognising that there is no separate financial crisis, no separate economic crisis, no separate labour market or social crisis. i am also pleased that the council is taking steps to accept the solutions proposed by the member states and to realise that, under different conditions, member states cannot apply the same crisis management methods. i am also glad that my country, hungary, has embarked on this path and as a result i can say that employment has increased, unemployment has decreased, public debt has decreased, the budget deficit has been reduced permanently and as a result we have finally escaped the excessive deficit procedure after more than nine years. i am also pleased that progress has been made on the subject of banking union, in the sense that, while respecting solidarity, it is also important to ensure that non-member countries have at least a say in future cases. it is also good to see that the sme theme also gives rise to a strong recommendation to increase credit flows, because this is the only potential growth opportunity to trigger economic growth. in conclusion, i am very pleased that the european council has given special attention to the floods affecting europe and has concluded with a conclusion which can serve as a guide for the commission and help us in our work in the debate this afternoon on the same subject.
i agree that the european heads of state or government have increased the funds earmarked for the european youth guarantee to 8 billion, although i must note that this is far from the minimum amount of 21 billion euros estimated by the international labour organisation, the ilo. to reach the current level of austria or finland, the european union would need €30 billion a year. it is pleased that one of the most successful initiatives of the union, the erasmus programme, has been saved. and as far as cohesion policy is concerned, it is very important that the macroeconomic conditionality system, which punishes small areas, companies, for bad policy, should be excluded from the rules for its use. finally, as hungarians, it was a great pleasure to hear our southern neighbor... (the president takes the floor)
stability, jobs and growth. these three have defined the programme of the irish presidency. as the prime minister mentioned, we've been on a very bumpy ride together. but this path could have led to many things. this path was designed to achieve economic recovery, increased competitiveness and financial stability. the results of this presidency have been very good in terms of banking union, in terms of talking about banking supervision, in terms of stabilising banks through recapitalisation, by controlling the balance sheet. i am very pleased that we have achieved success in the area of sme financing. i can also speak very highly and very appreciatively of the work done by the irish presidency in the field of youth unemployment. i think it's an excellent achievement, and i congratulate you... (the president withdrew)
in writing. − the vienna convention was signed in 1963 with the aim of providing adequate and fair compensation for victims of nuclear accidents. in 1997, a protocol was added to the convention, the provisions of which are the exclusive competence of the european union, so that member states cannot accede to it individually. i support the draft council decision with my vote, so that hungary will now be entitled to ratify the 1997 protocol.
in writing. - i should start by saying that my country should not have joined the european union under these conditions, which, moreover, hardly resembles the one we have joined. our biggest problem is the virtual eu support, which is actually a huge withdrawal. in comparison, the investigation of infringements of state aid rules is only a drop in the ocean, but the commission does not have the conditions for an appropriate investigation procedure. the commission's proposals to improve working conditions should therefore be adopted. it does not take away national competence as compared to the previous ones and even supports the better functioning of national courts. and the anomalies in domestic aid practice are the result of the overreach of the current government and a misunderstanding of democracy. this stuff is also growing the camp of the less-than-acceptable.
in writing. − aviation is now a key sector of the european economy. it contributes €365 billion to the eu's gdp and supports the operation of 5.1 million jobs, but our objectives are still waiting to be met. the european union urgently needs to increase its airport capacity in order to avoid losing its competitiveness to regions experiencing rapid, exponential growth. from a strategic point of view, the european union must preserve the competitiveness of the aviation sector. however, it is important that you do so while paying particular attention to labour and environmental standards, passenger rights and respect for european regulations. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - and we must think of flying until a volcano blows two. but the trend is, of course, towards improvement in both the number of flights and the routes. where there is demand, there is also demand for the market players, and europe has a lot to gain in this business segment, especially in the long-haul segment. strategic aspect to ensure that the european union maintains the competitiveness of the aviation sector. the union's internal market support mechanisms help to implement the community's aviation policy. at the same time, greater attention should be paid to labour and environmental standards and passenger rights. i am in any case against any action that restricts the independence of nation states, but when it comes to flying, safety is paramount and greater coordination between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation should be supported. although the recommendation's market- and consumer-driven provisions are troubling to me, i have had to accept the material in the absence of better and focused safety.
in writing. − public benefit foundations play an important role not only in hungary but throughout the european union, particularly in the fields of education, social affairs, sport and culture. however, costly and time-consuming legal and administrative obstacles prevent foundations from extending their activities to other member states. the commission has therefore put forward a proposal to establish a european foundation to facilitate the cross-border activities of foundations and to simplify the transfer of donations. the new statute would exist alongside national regulations, and is therefore not intended to replace or harmonise existing foundation legislation. in my view, the introduction of a single statute for a european foundation as an optional european legal form would greatly facilitate the promotion of public interest objectives throughout the european union. in view of all this, i am voting in favour of the proposal, which is necessary not only to simplify regulation but also to increase transparency.
in writing. − shipowners, masters and flag states must ensure that ships comply with the international legal requirements applicable to them. however, not all flag states have adequate enforcement of such provisions. in addition, the failure to fulfil their obligations has led to certain ships operating in unsafe conditions, thus posing a threat to both human life and the marine environment. the eu should therefore provide mechanisms to verify that irrespective of the nationality of the seafarers or the flag of the ship the relevant standards are being complied with on board ships calling at ports in the eu. the report aims to create and strengthen such effective tools, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the new legislation aims to increase road safety, reduce administrative burdens and simplify previous rules. the proposal provides for more precise definitions of the place of registration of vehicles than are currently in force and introduces the concept of withdrawal and cancellation of marketing authorisations. the coating would ensure that vehicles which pose a direct risk to road safety are not allowed to use the roads: the registration of such vehicles would be withdrawn until the next technical inspection has been successfully completed. furthermore, vehicles which are re-registered in another member state are automatically deleted from the original register. this will avoid the same vehicle being registered in several member states at the same time. vehicles which are declared to be scrapped on the basis of the periodic technical inspection or which have reached the end of their useful life shall be removed from the register following notification. the proposal also lays down new requirements for electronic registration systems and for the monitoring of the results of technical inspections, vehicle re-registration and dismantling.
in writing. − the paperwork for vehicles is a considerable burden for citizens. the proposal will make the implementation of the roadworthiness and roadworthiness testing system more efficient. in order to reduce the administrative burden, vehicles re-registered in another member state shall be automatically deleted from the original register. the proposal contains new requirements for electronic registration systems and for the monitoring of the results of technical inspections, vehicle re-registration and dismantling. the rapporteur proposes some amendments to reduce the number of papers drivers have to carry with them at all times. it also supports the creation of electronic databases and would like these national databases to be linked to those of other member states in order to facilitate vehicle identification. with the balkan states joining, it seems very useful to reduce the chance of our cars becoming tar, so i voted for it.
in writing. − the report on the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles is part of the technical suitability of vehicles package. the stated policy objective of the document is to substantially improve road safety, i.e. to reduce the number of fatal road accidents by 50% between 2010 and 2020. this legislation aims to achieve this by means of: introducing a risk assessment system for the selection of vehicles to be inspected; more annual technical inspections and regularly coordinated inspection activities in the member states; extending road checks to cargo (improper loading of cargo is responsible for 25% of all accidents involving trucks); adequate training of inspectors, etc. increasing european road safety is a highly important political objective, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the possibilities of the current control system are not being used properly by our authorities, because their aim is not to improve safety, but to prevent fraud and enterprises. vehicles in bad technical condition, foreigners who are speeding and breaking the rules, are not afraid to stop, or are simply not willing to be stopped by our average police officers or the people of the transport authority who do not know a word of foreign languages. this material is a step forward in that it encourages testing of more accident-prone vehicles, while small trucks typically used by small businesses under 3.5 tonnes would not be unduly harassed. i voted no on the points that reduce national competence, yes on the whole. if we take advantage of these new opportunities, our roads will be safer, if not, the situation will be better, because foreign vehicles will also have to be inspected.
in writing. − the report on the technical examination of motor vehicles and their trailers is part of the package of legislation on the technical suitability of vehicles. the stated policy objective of the document is to substantially improve road safety, i.e. to reduce the number of fatal road accidents by 50% between 2010 and 2020. this legislation aims to achieve this by means of: inter alia mandatory eu-wide roadworthiness tests for scooters and motorcycles; increasing the frequency of periodic roadworthiness tests; improving the quality of roadworthiness tests by establishing common minimum standards for defects and equipment; reducing mileage fraud by recording mileage; making electronic safety devices mandatory for testing, etc. increasing european road safety is a highly important political objective, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − technical inspection is one of the means of ensuring the safety of our daily lives. the refinement of the testing system has become timely due to technical progress. i voted against any proposal that would have undermined national sovereignty. in terms of safety and cost-effectiveness, i was thinking about eliminating unnecessary risks and avoiding unnecessary costs. the material is decisively correct and reduces unnecessary burdens and administration, thanks also to the many years and varied experience in the field, so i considered it worthy of a vote.
in writing. − the report deals with the types of state aid provided for in articles 90 to 94 of the treaty of lisbon. the essence of this is that the union's objectives must be achieved within the framework of a common aid policy. the details are set out in regulation (ec) no 994/98, which empowers the commission to grant exemptions from the control of aid in certain areas. these include amateur sports, tourism, research and development, and some areas of innovation. the report aims to exempt from commission scrutiny aid that is in line with the europe 2020 priorities. the proposals given give greater latitude to the policy of the nation state, which is why i had to vote for the report.
in writing. − in our country, many otherwise viable businesses have gone bankrupt due to financing problems, because banks have not lent money, but have invested in government bonds, stock exchanges and other speculation. or they simply (re) used the information they had about their customers to gain their interest. for example, a large banker's meat empire was created by taking over one of our largest salami factories while liquidating another. many other viable businesses were destroyed by acquisition of land to build housing estates, or simply fell victim to unfair market-buying practices by the four corners and others. there is some chance of countering these phenomena through cooperative activities and some possible support from the eu. we're mostly just a bunch of rain-soaked, and knowing the distribution mechanisms, i wouldn't get my hopes up, but you have to live with every little bit of it. so i voted in favour of the whole thing.
it's a two-card draw. i thank the president for allowing me to put this question. i would like to ask you where did you get the information that investors are leaving hungary, or where did you get the information that there are not enough investors coming? i would like to say that in the last 20 years, hungary last year - in the third year of the orbán government - produced the largest foreign investment. you were probably misled by those who gave you bad advice.
in april, i spoke in the debate on the fourth amendment to the fundamental law. i pointed out that the hungarian government is waging a war of independence against the european union because it does not share its values. four amendments to the basic law have established a system of authoritarian control. the dismantling of the constitutional rule of law is considered complete. my speech in april was completely ignored by the government-controlled domestic media. all the fidesz politicians are talking about a left-wing attack. prime minister! please notice where i'm speaking from. on the right. i represent the best of the european and domestic right and our new party, the modern hungary movement. european conservatives are working to strengthen representative democracy. your government has seized upon all the institutions of the rule of law, which is a system of checks and balances. conservative politics is always about constitutional rule of law. you have emptied the constitutional court of its powers, reversed 23 years of its decisions, launched an attack on the independence of the judiciary. conservative politics advocates a small and limited state. under your rule, the state has grown enormously, the administration has become five-tiered, the municipal governments have been emptied. conservative idealism is about clean hands and transparent governance. your party blackmails businessmen and has elevated corruption to a government policy. european conservative politics is in favor of free competition. your government is destroying the market, distorting competition, nationalizing and building monopolies. european conservatives are the defenders of human dignity. your system stigmatizes the poor, bullies the homeless, keeps public servants in fear. conservatives across europe are the champions of individual freedom. your government has earned the right to look into the private lives of its citizens. the european conservative vision is modern: a society of free citizens. your party despises society, divides privileges and tries to integrate the subjects of the omnipotent state into the central power of nationalist populism. on behalf of the ecr group. other the tavares report is an excellent summary of all the distortions in democracy deliberately made by an authoritarian government acting in bad faith; it is perfectly accurate in describing the process of evolution in the rule of law in hungary. its findings have been confirmed by the venice commission. the hungarian disease is infectious; that is why it is essential to highlight similar problems in all member states. as the financial times put it yesterday, there is a need to reflect on how europe enforces its values. the commission needs a greater range of powers to sanction members when democratic reforms are stalled or at risk of being reversed, as in hungary. i ask all of you to vote for the tavares report. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8))
it's a two-card draw. mr. deputy, mr. minister, i could say that, too, because you were a minister in a previous government. he started by saying, look at where i'm talking from, i'm talking from the right. mr cohn-bendit, the leader of the group, is shouting that he is a former communist. my question is, is it worth pouring clean water into the glass? would you tell the plenary what you know, which perhaps not everyone knows, that you were a minister in a socialist government not so long ago, and that you were a member of the former communist state party, the hungarian socialist workers' party?
that's a two-card answer. well, fidesz isn't known for respecting facts. i'm only allowed to share two facts with you. one is that when i was a minister in a socialist-liberal government, you criticized my economic policy because you thought it was thatcherite, right-wing, conservative, when it was the most successful economic policy in hungary. and the other thing, which is also important, is that in hungary, not a few people, and not a few people, participated in the work of the democratic opposition. i was there, you weren't there.
mr president, congratulations to mr tavares. he did a fantastic job. he has probably done more for hungarian patriotism and euroscepticism, or rather eurorealism, than anybody else since the so-called ‘democratic transition’ when our colonisation began on behalf of the so-called ‘european fundamental values’. i wrote a message to him and to the chamber from, i am convinced, the majority of the hungarian people. it says ‘hungary is not a colony and hungary will not be a colony’. (the speaker displayed a placard showing the hungarian flag and the words ‘hungary ≠ colony’) walking in your footsteps and working hard towards hungarian patriotism and eurorealism are mr barroso and ms viviane reding. they recently came back from the meeting of the bilderberg group, the secret meeting of leaders of banks, multinationals, corporations. they presumably got their instructions on the future of the european union. when they came back they refused to give any information to parliament or to the media on what exactly they did and then they blame hungary for having too much concentration of power, too few checks and balances, too little transparency. you guys did your share of the work for hungarian patriotism. now it is our turn. we hungarian patriots have to end the division between us. we hungarian compatriots, who are proud to be hungarians, we have to unite and united we have to raise our heads and take our homeland back.
it's a two-card draw. the honourable member has repeatedly referred to the double standard. since it has already come up here that mr. bokros has been branded a communist because of his past as a member of the state party, let me ask you, mr. deputy, if you know how many former members of the state party are in the current orbán government who are still members of the government, or were? as far as i know, there are three: györgy matolcsy, who was minister of economy and is now president of the mnb, sándor pintér, who is minister of the interior and jános martonyi, who is minister of foreign affairs in this government. but i wonder if you know any more?
my dear mr cohn-bendit, i have to ask you to leave. the word soviet union was only heard from your lips, although it is true that there is a difference between you and viktor orbán, namely that in your younger days you rebelled against a democratic system and viktor orbán against an anti-democratic system. house of honor! for those of you who are constantly feeling the urge to lecture others on what it means to be a true european, i have summed up my words in four points. first, the european respects his own nation and the nation of others, as the council of europe did last week when it welcomed hungary's new constitution. you, on the other hand, here on the left, in a 30-page, torture-ridden document, are reading a verdict on a race. secondly, before passing judgment, a european follows the ancient principle of roman law: audiatur et altera pars, let the other party be heard as well. in comparison, the liberal mr verhofstadt did not even want to allow the house committee to allow prime minister viktor orbán to defend his own country, or to respond at the end of the debate. why are you, the prosecution, so afraid to give the accused a chance to speak? are they that afraid of the truth? i believe that the essence of europe is dialogue, which many people here interpret and imagine as meaning that only the ideas they like can be expressed. you have even voted down amendments to the report under discussion which were intended to correct factual errors. thirdly, a european refuses to see one country as being measured by another. if you violate the rules of the union that you have agreed to, the others are right to demand that you respect them, but it is unacceptable to demand that you be held accountable in hungary, which has never been done before in any eu member state. according to the people's party, before putting hungary under guardianship, all members must be enlightened, otherwise the parliament will become uncredible. fourthly, a european, before he teaches others, must be careful to observe the rules that apply to him. the new institution which is being set up to be the guardian of hungary does not exist in union law and is openly in conflict with the treaty of lisbon. house of honor! you, the left wing of this house, are in serious violation of the european principles. you have not written a report, but a conceptual judgment about hungary. you are not european because, by applying double standards, by using a text that is contrary to eu law, a text that is false, that is based on false party politics, you are not promoting the cause of a common europe, but are instead encouraging discord. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
that's a two-card answer. ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first debate on hungary to take place here, and on several occasions mr verhofstadt has expressed the view that it is not right for prime ministers to speak in this house. i would also like to say that the country, the accused who attacked you, is represented by only three of you. we've had eight minutes to talk, all the other time, two hours is yours. maybe that'll do it for you. even stalin gave the convicts more time in the conception trials, when they could defend themselves with the right of last resort than you in this statutory procedure.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if anyone misunderstood, i'll have it. i didn't compare it to stalin's conception procedure, but i said that in those trials the defendants were given longer sentences than here the ones who were attacked. only for the time being, in a neutral and political sense, that's what i meant. as a result, i reject any attempt to broaden that interpretation, and i would like to apologize if anyone was offended by that.
prime minister viktor orbán said he was speaking on behalf of hungarian citizens. i recently received a letter from one of them, who i don't think would be a candidate for this office, who wrote that in a democracy, to wage a war of freedom is a counter-revolution against democracy. viktor orbán has his own president, his own constitutional court, his own attorney general, his own electoral law. the power of the orbán government is controlled by viktor orbán's friends and the fidesz members appointed by him. instead, this report, the tavares report, offers a european monitoring system. the changes imposed by previous parliamentary decisions and reports did not affect the essence of the system. the dismantling of the brakes and counterweights is now practically complete. the european institutions try to fulfil the function which in a democracy is the task of independent national institutions. the interests of the hungarian people are that the legislature be controlled by the constitutional court, that the people be assured of the impartiality of the judge who decides their case, that they receive balanced information from the independent media, that they express their will in free and fair elections. the hungarian people are not protected by you today, but from you. from you and from you, who while fighting a spectacular war for freedom and loudly shouting out enemies, are quietly building a system of authoritarian rule that makes the hungarian people vulnerable. from you and from you, who, in the opinion of the venice commission, use the constitution as a political tool to achieve their political goals. you talk about successes, but only the fidesz moon palace gets rich at the cost of 4 million poor people in hungary, the shortest unemployment benefit in europe, half a million disabled pensioners without income and so on. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask the honourable member if, in her opinion, there are citizens who do not want to be represented in hungary, what is her opinion about the fact that this government governs hungary with a two-thirds mandate, and in particular in view of the fact that mr verhofstadt just referred to a half hour ago that he is the one who represents hungarian democracy. i think there are a number of people in this parliament who would not like mr verhofstadt to represent hungarian interests here in this parliament. it is enough to remember that a few sentences ago, for example, cohn-bendit dismissed one of our colleagues and said that he had no business being here in the european parliament. the president has just said that. it would be a good thing if you decided who could be a member of the european parliament.
that's a two-card answer. two-thirds in parliament, but we know that wasn't exactly 52% of the actual votes at the time, and we also know that it's declined very seriously since then, so today there's not even half the population that supports this government. of course, we do not know exactly how many. in addition, many people in hungary feel, and i am glad that the honourable member has given me the opportunity to say this, that the fidesz government is only favouring its own clientele, the whole traffic-mutyi - i won't go into details - the land law, all kinds of other things are about who gets the support. so there are a lot of people who think that this representation doesn't necessarily serve them.
thank god the hungarian voters have heard this debate, all that has been said, all the rhetoric and lies, and they will draw their conclusions. i see this debate a little differently. i see that the left here has been playing a partisan game of court by preparing the report over the past year and a half, and fearing the hungarian rule of law, while constantly breaking the european parliament's own rules of procedure. and the text we're voting on is a judgment that ignores the facts and fails to mention any concrete evidence, any violation of the law. it is unfair, full of errors, slippages, proof of double standards, since it objects to the practices of other member states only in the case of hungary, not in theirs. listening to this debate, i think we should have asked for permission to pass a law. you are deeply encroaching on the dignity, authority and sovereignty of the members of the hungarian parliament. the hungarian electorate elected this government of their own free will, because eight years of socialist-liberal rule have ruined the country. it is outrageous that the left-liberals, who lost the last election so drastically, are choosing their tools, using their entire european network and doing everything to make this government impossible. and you are playing against yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, because you are empowering the sceptics, and you are weakening europe. the report should be read in this context! it's a shame that they want to give a dictate the majority's blessing tomorrow. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
blue-card answer. – yes, ms vergiat, i would write the same report but since 2004 i have seen a lot in this parliament. i have seen that those values, those ideas we consider as fundamental rights are being absolutely misused politically. since 2004, i have not seen one case where a socialist/liberal government’s misuse of rights or of fundamental rights could be put on the agenda. but since 2004 i have seen some very concrete examples relating to minority rights and harassment of people that we could never put on the agenda. so i think that the socialist liberals are using these issues for their political ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a hungarian patriot, as a democrat, as a european, it is an exalted feeling to speak in today's debate. in the spirit of mark twain, to be a patriot is to support your country in all circumstances, but your government only when it deserves it. the tavares report is a substantial step forward in the future of the union's ability to address democratic deficits and rule of law through the establishment of the copenhagen commission. it is hard to believe that the activities of my country's government have provided the basis for this, for the fourth time after three ep seats. just as you could have defended the antall government's national policy or the welfare law as an opposition, you have no one to defend the current government against. the union is not some kind of enemy who is attacking our country, because we hungarians are the union. we must protect hungarian democracy from the current government. hungarian socialists clearly welcome the fact that the report does not recommend sanctions. this is correct, because the european union does not want to punish the hungarian people, nor does it intend to do so, nor does it have the right to do so. the orbán government's policy is punishment enough for the hungarian people. i respect the dignity of the hungarian prime minister, but you have violated the personal dignity and interests of millions over the past years. it has permanently widened the gap between the rich and the poor, systematically dismantled democracy, the rule of law, freedom of the media. europe can help a lot, but the freedom of our people in the solitude of the voting booth can only be regained by us, hungarian citizens. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
it's a two-card draw. - mr. speaker, i have to ask you to excuse me. as you know, i myself, in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, have summed up in eight points why i consider the tavares report to be absolutely unworthy and have recommended that it be removed from the agenda. now i would like to ask you, if you live in hungary, and if you are not, you should have seen that there was a mass of untruths in the debate today from the left, from various left-wing representatives. you have refused to accept any correction, any communication of facts from the hungarian government or the hungarian representatives. this is particularly sad for you, who have often proved to be a partner in hungarian national issues, for example in the committee on petitions. i ask you why you did not speak up when mr swoboda, citing unnamed jewish organisations, claimed that anti-semitism was rampant in hungary. (the president withdrew)
mr president, as a criminal lawyer i did a lot of research on domestic violence and partner abuse. an important thing i found was that it is an interesting and important and very dramatic characteristic of abusive relationships that the abuser wants to keep the victim under his full and total power and control. and what happens is that often, in most cases, the victim thinks that she can change this with her behaviour. she tries to work harder in the house, she tries to be a better wife, a better mother, but the truth is that she cannot change the abuser’s behaviour, because the abuser wants to keep her under his power and control. the right behaviour, what a lawyer or psychologist should give as advice in such a situation, is do not try any longer to please the abuser. raise your head and say, either we shall live in an equal relationship from now on or i will have a divorce. prime minister orbán, my advice to you is to say the same to the european union on behalf of the hungarian people.
in writing. - mr prime minister! i thank you on behalf of the hungarian people for coming to strasbourg and for considering it important to respond personally to the seriously offensive political accusations with which hungary is being attacked in the european parliament. thank you for defending hungary, the hungarian people. this report is part of a political campaign, full of inaccuracies and unfounded criticism. what could be behind the attacks? obviously, the envy caused by the success and unprecedented unity of the hungarian people. the success story that the system of national cooperation has established in hungary. what does it all mean? job creation, reducing unemployment, raising pensions and increasing purchasing power, avoiding bankruptcy, disciplined fiscal policy, thanks to which we have been able to rise from the shame of europe after nine years! i agree with you, mr. prime minister, that a successful europe is not based on submission, but on a community of values of creative and successful free states.
in writing. rui tavares' latest amendment this time targets the hungarian national security law, claiming that the stricter screening procedure than before seriously threatens the rule of law. the national security law, as amended by the hungarian parliament, imposes stricter screening requirements than before on senior officials of state bodies under the supervision of the government, primarily law enforcement leaders. however, judges, in general prosecutors, the presidents of the curia and the office of the judge, are not subject to the extended review procedure. the only exceptions are judges and prosecutors who make decisions about intelligence operations. the increased scrutiny is intended to stem the rampant corruption and moral decay that has reached the police, among others, during eight years of socialist rule. tavares feared the law, the principle of separation of powers, while other left-liberal representatives directly envisioned the collapse of the rule of law and the abolition of the right to privacy. in reality, however, the posts subject to scrutiny have not changed and concern only those people in positions who know in advance what they are undertaking. the scrutiny of the matter is strictly a matter for the member states under the eu treaties, as exemplified by the fact that scrutiny mechanisms are radically different in each member state. so rui tavares has again called out wolves where, unfortunately, no orphaned wolves roam.
in writing. – regrettably, the report contains a multitude of factual errors, logical fallacies, one-sided half-truths and politically loaded judgments or misleading omissions. as an example, i would like to evoke the paragraphs suggesting that hate crimes have multiplied since the current government took office, but fail to mention the 2008-2009 serial killings against roma which happened during the previous, socialist government. placing these paragraphs amongst evaluations of government measures unacceptably links intolerance and racism with the hungarian government – which must be firmly rejected – yet there is no mention of the achievements in this field, such as the banning of right-wing paramilitary groups, criminalising holocaust-denial and hate speech, establishing the holocaust remembrance day, or introducing roma and jewish history into the national curricula. paragraphs on minorities also fail to take account of the positive measures taken for the social inclusion of roma, such as the framework agreement on cooperation with the national roma self-government (the only one in europe defining specific numerical commitments and deadlines), or the provision that as from 1 july, hungarian local governments can only receive financial support if they have an appropriate equal opportunities programme in effect.
in writing. i object to the report by rui tavares because the left-wing parties have played a court on a purely party-political level by preparing the report. a report is a judgment that ignores the facts and the facts. the most typical example of this is the current debate, where no concrete statements were made, and even false claims. i don't know where the left gets the idea that 400,000 disability pensioners in hungary are left without benefits, when all the statistics, publicly credible reports, show that fewer disabled people newly enrolled in the benefits system are rejected this year than five years ago when the left was in government, and with much less transparent qualification methods. today, it's all based on who recommendations. instead of an invalidity pension, they will continue to receive the same benefit, but not a pension, which will strengthen legal security, since thousands of people in their twenties and thirties have previously received benefits under this title. finally, i would like to say that the current government, which, in accordance with several ep resolutions, does not want to leave its citizens with disabilities in a passive, vegetative state, but wants to introduce them into the world of work by supporting their employment, 18 thousand smes have already been able to employ people with disabilities this year.
in writing. – you will all have received the detailed refutation of the assertions in the tavares report that was sent out by the hungarian government. if you on the left reject this refutation, then you are also saying that the hungarian government – the government of a member state – is mendacious. this amounts to a direct attack on the credibility of each and every member state. further, the tavares report in effect seeks to impose a new constitution on hungary. does the left seriously think that hungarian society can identify with a basic law written in brussels or by the venice commission? then, why pick on hungary? are you singling out hungary because it is small? because to us what is going on looks very like post-colonial bullying. are there not other member states where the status of human rights may actually be worse than in hungary? are you not applying a double standard? finally, are you aware of the unintended consequences of what you are doing? hungary-bashing may be agreeable, but it has had the effect of de-europeanising hungary and strengthening support for jobbik and euroscepticism. is this what you want to achieve?
in writing. "woe to those who are saying that good is bad and bad is good, who are turning darkness into light and light into darkness", says the prophet isaiah. from a moral point of view, this biblical phrase is the most appropriate description of the tavares report, which condemns the partisan bias of the "proletarian internationalism" of bad memory and the complicity of hungarian socialists and libertinians, and wants to impose the dictatorship of the european left on hungary. in the countries of the former soviet bloc, after the collapse of the eastern dictatorship in 1989, several orders of communist restoration were carried out. in hungary, in april 2010, this counter-revolutionary type of reorganization was ended by the national party alliance of viktor orbán, with a 2/3 electoral victory. the current legal dispute under the pretext of protecting hungarian democracy is not really about respecting the fundamental european values, but rather about the elections in hungary next year. the desperate political struggle waged by the hungarian post-communist left, with the help of the european left-liberal camp, against the national fidesz government in order to regain power. a striking, telling sign of this ambition is the tavares report's proposal for an osce observation mission to observe the 2014 elections in hungary. a democratic europe has its place not on the side of the party cronies of the old system, but on the side of the hungarian national government that is changing the system!
record flooding in europe has resulted in record coverage. in my country, hungary, there was a very well-organised defence effort, based on the forecasting and information system mentioned by the commissioner. i think people have done their job, now it's the european union, now it's the european parliament. this is the reason why i have prepared this motion for a resolution, the main message of which is that we can act quickly. we all know that we are talking about the same foundation, but unfortunately there are limits to reaching that foundation: it is slow, it takes too long to evaluate, so we have to act. the floods are not slow. they're coming in fast. people are expecting help fast. the motion for a resolution aims to speed up the evaluation process and to develop a new, simpler and more transparent evaluation system, the switch to prefinancing. madam president, allow me to say that the european council has a final conclusion in which it takes this matter very seriously, given that, in addition to the solidarity fund, we also have access to the structural funds and the cohesion funds in the field of flood prevention and control.
in writing. in the past few weeks, shocking images and articles have appeared almost every minute of one of the worst floods in centuries, which has struck central and eastern europe. thousands of people stood at the dams, volunteering their time to help with the defense. he did his work according to the ability and talents of each one, with the greatest organization. in hungary, for example, the national humanitarian coordination council was set up with the participation of the various aid organisations and the authorities concerned in order to pool their resources and share tasks for effective protection. on june 4th, we celebrate the day of national unity in hungary. this year, a natural disaster put that idea into practice. familiars and strangers joined together in an exemplary way, not just in words but in deeds, proving the power and value of volunteering and unity without borders. it is a pleasure to see that we in the ep have reacted so quickly to what has happened, because the citizens who elected us count on us to help them in their troubles and to repair the damage. i hope that this decision will really do our duty and that the citizens and households affected by the floods will receive tangible help from eu funds.
in writing. – let me first mention my gratitude to the rescue teams and the local populations for their outstanding efforts as well as my condolences to the families of the victims. while central european member states were battling against the flooding, the eu solidarity fund, designed to provide assistance to member states when large-scale disasters occur, had already run out of money for the current financial year. it clearly shows the need for a more flexible esf and eu budget and for full cover of the 2013 outstanding payment. it is also important that the member states apply a long-term perspective and use all means available, including the financial assistance provided by the eu, engineering projects and green infrastructure to improve their flood control facilities. increased cooperation within the eu framework and civil protection mechanism should also be fully exploited by member states instead of seeking support on a bilateral basis. moreover, the european environment agency and the scientific community predict a rise in extreme weather events in the next decades. we need more and better data to assess the role of climate change in those disasters as well as accurate flood risk maps as provided for in the floods directive.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the floods that hit germany, the czech republic, austria and my home country, hungary, and that have been described as "the flood of the century", have resulted in exemplary cooperation. at the dams, nearly 40,000 volunteers and 9,000 police, soldiers, and firefighters worked selflessly to prevent the flood. we would like to thank you for your hard work and dedication. of the 95 flood-stricken settlements in hungary, only four are undergoing restoration work. i urge the hungarian authorities to complete the restoration work in my home county of bács-kiskun as soon as possible and to start assessing the damage. as a member state of the european union, hungary is entitled to claim compensation from the eu solidarity fund. i am confident that, as the socialist governments successfully applied for eu support in 2006 and again in 2010, hungary can again count on the swift assistance of the european solidarity fund. it is fortunate in its misfortune that the amount of damage in hungary does not reach the minimum threshold for aid. thanks to the neighbouring country clause, as the disaster affected the entire central european region, our country can also benefit from eu aid. the aid should be used to provide assistance to the victims and to prevent further flooding. it would be good if the development of the flood protection system, the modernization of the dams, not only during the flood, but also after the tide has receded, would be a priority of the government.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her commitment and the hard work she has shown in this report. this is not the first time that the european parliament has expressed an opinion on this divisive issue. i would like to stress that i consider it very important to establish the starting point, namely that tax policy should remain a matter for the member states, and that it is necessary and appropriate to examine the question of a financial transaction tax on this basis. however, i can accept and agree with its aim that the financial sector should show solidarity and contribute to the crisis management. so i think the financial transaction tax is a good approach. i also support the reduction of the projection for smes and pension funds, all the more so because i believe that they were not the ones who were surveying with a view to speculation. i can accept the approach that this is a political priority for some member states, which is why i think it is important that in addition to a team of 11 member states supporting this - which is admittedly not an ideal solution - there is also the possibility of including in the group of experts on the financial transaction tax all those who are not involved in this work. i am of course in agreement with those who think that the council's position is questionable. obviously, this is to be expected and the future will decide whether this tax contributes, or is doubtful, to the clarification and the crisis management methods.
in writing. this draft report attempts to address the nature of the eu banking system in a complex manner, yet covering all the main areas, which is quite challenging given the different composition and structure of the different banking systems in each member state. the draft basically builds on the findings of the likannen group set up by the commission in february 2012, but goes further and sets out its objectives in a more ambitious way. it is important that in this work the authors have sought to change the basic banking culture, a subject which is precisely one of the sub-areas where and why the financial crisis was able to develop and persist in some member states. the text very correctly reflects the principle, which was also to some extent established by the expert group, that the safest way to stabilise the banking system is to permanently separate the bank's risky operations from its deposit-taking and other commercial activities, in addition to structural reforms. this principle, in my view, needs to be further strengthened, as it is the only way to achieve in the long term simpler and more transparent banking rules and smooth supervision and, where appropriate, recapitalisation. the main assumptions were also to improve corporate governance within the bank; to promote genuine lending to the real economy; and to develop a responsible remuneration system, all of which are objectives to be supported.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is pleased to announce that it has adopted a new proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union. i'm going to try to summarize what i'm saying in three points. first of all, let me say that the debate in the european parliament on the proposal for a reform of olaf will take place in completely different circumstances after the problems in the olaf investigation procedure leading to the resignation of the maltese commissioner of the european commission became public. i would like to make it clear that in my view this is not a 'dalli-gate' case but an 'olaf-gate' case. the information available to the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament shows that the director-general of olaf in office committed serious irregularities in the course of the procedure, such that, if the head of a similar office in any member state of the union had committed such irregularities, that head of office would have had to resign or be replaced by the authority which appointed him. these facts have created a completely new set of circumstances, so, ladies and gentlemen, secondly, i would like to say that i cannot agree with commissioner semeta. in the hungarian language, it is said that a chasm cannot be crossed in two steps, because this solution can only lead to the person concerned falling into the abyss. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i was informed that in the absence of my colleague, mr macovei, i have three minutes to speak. please confirm whether this is the case or not. my fellow party experts have pointed this out. i am convinced that the reform of olaf requires more than two steps, which is why i support the amendments tabled by my colleague ingeborg gräßle to the fullest extent. finally, ladies and gentlemen, if the decisions we take tomorrow in the plenary do not give a new impetus to the reform of olaf, then we are sadly faced with the situation that the institution created in 1999 and which has done a great deal to ensure that the european union can act institutionally to reduce fraud, if tomorrow's vote does not give a new impetus to the reform of olaf, then the european anti-fraud office will become part of the problem, not the solution. i therefore hope that the amendments tabled by mrs gräßle will be supported by the house tomorrow.
mr. president, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i'd like to thank both of you for your work. at this stage of the debate, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to three considerations which have perhaps not received sufficient attention in the discussions so far. first of all, i would like to point out that the introduction of thresholds by olaf in setting its priorities for investigations in 2012-13 is a cause for concern in the fight against fraud. the office examines the likely financial impact of each case on a case-by-case basis and, if it does not reach a certain value, olaf is unlikely to investigate the case. the thresholds set are very high, for example in the customs sector and the european regional development fund, and irregularities below eur 1 million are not considered to be a significant case of fraud by the office. secondly, i regret the fact that more than half of the olaf investigations that went to the judicial stage between 2006 and 2011 have not yet resulted in a judicial decision. last but not least, one of the most effective ways to reduce vat and tax fraud would be to link commercial transactions in real time with the tax authorities. i'm glad the report brings that to the fore.
mr. chairman, members of the house of representatives, i would like to highlight two important areas. one is the customs issue. 70% of customs procedures in the union are carried out under the simplified procedure. the findings of the court of auditors' special report no 1/2010 are of particular concern as they point to serious shortcomings in this area. the use of advanced information systems would be necessary to reduce the evasibility of the authorities, and i therefore believe that it is essential to make uniform and full use of the modernised customs code as soon as possible. the second is cigarette smuggling, which costs member states' budgets €10 billion a year. it's basically funding the operations of various criminal organizations, which is completely unacceptable. member states raise taxes on tobacco products to reduce the number of smokers, but in the meantime it is essential to tighten controls, as tax increases clearly push things in the direction of smuggling. in sum, it is in the common interest of all of us that the competent agencies and authorities should be able to detect fraud as much as possible, if only to help honest governments and honest businesses.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the report on serious crossborder health threats seeks to find a solution to accelerate the european union's response capacity, drawing on the experience of the last two or three years of serious epidemic problems. my colleagues have just mentioned the previous epidemics in 2009 and 2011 which caused very serious problems. what can we do to avoid these later? first, the exchange of information between eu member states should be improved. we must also find the role of the european commission in this process. the commission should play a key role in the preparation of key decisions. it is unacceptable that member states have been blindly playing around with serious issues, such as the h1n1 pandemic, as there were no usable research results on the side effects of the vaccine to prevent infection on young children or on pregnant women. hundreds of thousands of european citizens were in complete uncertainty about whether to give these vaccines to their children or to themselves. this is untenable for posterity.
mr. president, madam president, i have to ask you to leave. you are the first baltic country to take over the presidency. you are the success stories of the european union today, when 25 years ago you were still part of the soviet union. i ask you to explain the difference to the hungarian prime minister in the european council. as for the presidency, you have a lot of work to do. we ask that you turn unbridled, often uncouth arguments into action. young people are not only waiting for unemployment to be addressed, but also for legislation to help expand the digital age, so that the internet is accessible to everyone, so i ask you to consider the digital agenda, broadband and investments in energy networks as priorities. the experience of the recovery program has shown that in addition to resources, accelerating the process of authorization, making it more efficient, breaking down barriers is very important. and finally, as a member of euronest, i welcome and look forward to the eastern partnership summit. the european democratic values must be spread throughout the world, including in the eastern member states, and economic links must be exploited. madam president! i wish you and your social democratic government much success in the coming semester. we're waiting for your results.
madam president, my dear fellow members of parliament. we have heard that one of the objectives of the lithuanian presidency is to strengthen the credibility of the european union. the need for credibility in the field of the union's energy policy is particularly acute, as citizens are still not aware of the benefits of the common energy policy. for example, energy markets in the new member states continue to be characterised by poor infrastructure and energy prices above the eu average. the situation of the baltic states is, moreover, similar to that of hungary , which is even more vulnerable than average, since they depend on a single energy exporter due to a lack of infrastructure connections. the establishment of the single market does not require further legislation at eu level now that the second and third energy packages provide the appropriate basis for the establishment of the common energy market. what is needed now is for member states to put into practice the eu rules they have approved. if you like, then it's the council's turn. the eu's energy policy is particularly encouraged by the fact that lithuania is taking over the presidency. lithuanians know that a common energy policy means not only lower prices but also a guarantee of independence. i am therefore confident that the presidency will do all it can to ensure that the member states implement the single energy market as soon as possible and that their external energy policies are better coordinated. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the security of europe's energy supply can only be guaranteed through the single market and coordinated action by the union. however, further efforts are needed to reduce the union's vulnerability, and i wish the lithuanian presidency and the president personally every success in this endeavour.
mr piotrowski, the blue card was for the previous speaker. you cannot go back to another event in the past. i am sorry, but i cannot give you the floor. it is not within our rules. i was not here during the previous event but now you have the right only to put a question to the previous speaker. finally, i give the floor to ms šuica. this is probably the first occasion for her to speak to us. congratulations to the croatian members.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as the initiator of the visegrád cooperation group, now known as the danube-baltic cooperation, i warmly welcome the lithuanian presidency and hope that it will be as successful as the one that president grybauskaite was in her age of confidence when she fought for equality in the new member states. this is also necessary in the context of cohesion policy, as the macroeconomic conditionality system is very damaging to the new member states. i would like to call for attention to be paid to the development of our rules on support schemes for small farms in the framework of the common agricultural policy. finally, i would like to congratulate the current social democratic government on the inclusion of the polish minority party. i hope that this will improve the situation of the polish minority in lithuania and help the european minority protection system.
madam president-in-office, when i remember your time in the commission i have a kind of nostalgia for the long conciliation meetings. i congratulate you and your country on the presidency. you now have the floor to close the debate.
in writing. − on 3 july 2013, the european parliament adopted by a large majority in plenary a resolution welcoming the agreement on the eu financial framework for 2014-2020. there is no danger that billions of euros will flow into hungary between 2014 and 2020 under the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. last week's breakthrough agreement by the heads of the eu institutions on a new multiannual financial framework has now been confirmed by a majority of meps. the eu heads of state or government agreed on the new financial framework in february 2013. one of the biggest beneficiaries of this is hungary and its citizens. the position of hungary has improved significantly compared to the previous draft, despite the fact that the entire seven-year framework was reduced by eur 73 billion. it is a great success that hungary has received a bigger slice of the smaller cake than ever before: while a hungarian citizen received huf 660,000 in eu aid in the period between 2007 and 2013, in the next period he will receive huf 712,000. with this result, we are second in per capita aid among the 28 member states.
in writing. − a large part of the irish priorities revolved around economic recovery, increasing competitiveness and achieving financial stability. while there are still many efforts to be made to keep the community on the path of economic growth and job creation, the irish presidency was indeed concerned about the fate of the euro area and the common economic policies, as the financial stability of the union has improved considerably in recent times. the decision to launch the second stage of the banking union was taken, and progress was made towards the establishment of a single banking supervisory mechanism, which is also helping to stabilise the european banking sector, which has been wounded by the financial crisis. the stability of the irish programme is further enhanced by the eur 10 billion increase in the european investment bank's capital at the last council meeting and by the fact that negotiations on the financial framework for the period 2014-2020 are nearing completion. moreover, it has been endorsed by the european parliament in the form of a political agreement, finally removing any obstacles to hungary's future use of available resources in the fields of agriculture and cohesion policy. in this context, i congratulate the irish presidency on its 40th anniversary and on its preparation to become a member of the european community.
in writing. − i voted in favour of today's european parliament resolution, which confirms the breakthrough agreement reached last week by the heads of the eu institutions on the seven-year financial framework. the compromise is good news for hungary, hungarian citizens and europe as a whole, as between 2014 and 2020 additional billions of euros could come to hungary under the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. i consider it a great success that, thanks to the efforts of the hungarian government, hungary got a bigger slice of the smaller cake than before: hungary's position improved despite the fact that the entire seven-year framework was reduced by 73 billion euros. i voted in favour of the mandatory mid-term review, which will allow the union to mobilise more money for community purposes in a more favourable economic environment. i also agree with the greater flexibility which allows eu money not to be lost due to the rigidity of annual budgets.
in writing. − the european union also participates in the work of the united nations economic commission for europe. where appropriate, this will contribute to the international harmonisation of technical and safety requirements for motor vehicles, which is essential for vehicle production and trade. this has enabled the introduction of international type-approval standards that are accepted on several continents. according to the material, the unece has developed a recommendation for wheeled vehicles and their accessories to have a uniform technical specification that ensures on the one hand the safety of vehicles and on the other hand easier repairability. our country is interested in vehicle manufacturing, the recommendation is in line with our national interests and therefore deserves to be accepted.
in writing. − the report concerns an agreement on the development of international technical specifications for wheeled vehicles and equipment and fittings to be fitted or used on wheeled vehicles. the european union shall also participate in the work of the united nations economic commission for europe. where appropriate, this will contribute to the international harmonisation of technical and safety requirements for motor vehicles, which is essential for the production and trade of vehicles. this has enabled the introduction of international type-approval standards that are accepted on several continents. hungary is interested in vehicle manufacturing and trade, the recommendation is in line with our national interests and therefore deserves to be accepted. it would have been even better if our previously thriving bus industry had not been destroyed by the eu.
in writing. - i welcome the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, ingeborg grässle, since the conclusions of the investigations carried out by the olaf supervisory committee in the dalli case have given a new basis to the image and assessment of olaf, since olaf, as the main anti-fraud body of the european union and its head, has committed serious errors in the conduct of its investigations which would individually give sufficient cause for a complete lack of confidence in the office and call into question its proper functioning, and therefore the amendments to the olaf regulation may provide an opportunity to remedy the deficiencies.
in writing. the dalli case, which broke out last autumn in connection with the bribery of the maltese commissioner, has seriously damaged the reputation of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the main audit body of olaf is the supervisory committee, which is independent of the director-general and is responsible for monitoring the regularity of the activities of the institution and the director-general. the director-general of olaf should be the one to lead the way in enforcing the rules, whereas in the dalli case the director-general completely disregarded cooperation with the supervisory committee and committed further serious irregularities in the course of the investigation. the amendment of the olaf regulation will allow the shortcomings identified by the dalli case to be addressed and the role and independence of the supervisory committee to be strengthened. i voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the people's party, as it is in the common interest of all of us that the lessons of recent events should be drawn from and that the revised olaf regulation should enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. - i have, on behalf of my party and myself, and under all circumstances, stood and will stand for the lawful prosecution. we are the only parliamentary force in hungary whose representatives have always waived their immunity. in the european union, the olaf supervisory committee is the main body responsible for detecting abuses. this material is a recommendation for a second reading, which has been crystallized over 3 years of negotiation. at the same time, it ensures that olaf operates more efficiently and that citizens' rights are better protected. the recommendation could improve the fight against fraud and as such i support it consistently.
in writing. − following the commission's proposal, this material is welcome to propose strengthening the ucits system in terms of delegation of deposit-keeping activities, liability, remuneration, sanctions, and consumer protection. the draft rightly states that, since investment in ucits involves significant risks, the risks must be directly linked to the investments and not to the transfer of the depositary activity or the limited liability of the management of the ucits in order to guarantee the protection of retail investors in an absolute manner. in the area of remuneration, the main objective is to ensure consistency between the different financial instruments and the legislation. it is appropriate to establish that the scope of the remuneration scheme for employees should cover all decision-making staff in both the ucits and the management company. it is also true that it is desirable to introduce certain changes in the fund managers in order to make them work more efficiently, as the performance fee paid to the fund managers rarely improves the performance of the fund and therefore the variable remuneration should be proportionate to the size of the fund or the value of the assets managed. it is encouraging that, in addition to remuneration, the draft also addresses the issue of sanctions, which will help to minimise market abuse and will allow the imposition of proportionate and dissuasive administrative fines in the future. the plan is comprehensive and thorough, i recommend it for support!
in writing. − if we want to live in a livable world, the amount of real and virtual money in circulation should match the volume of real goods and services exchanged. today, the virtual something called money lives on its own and generates extra profits through speculative methods for certain circles primarily. however, even legally acquired savings, such as money from pension funds, are now managed by such speculative investment funds. this amendment, which amends directive 2009/65/ec, provides for uniform rules on the authorisation, supervision, organisation and activities of investment funds and the information which they are required to disclose. until now, managers of such investment companies have been encouraged to pursue the highest possible risk for the highest possible profit, since if they failed, the investors were relieved by the state from the burden of taxpayers. we condemn all speculative activity, but this is the fate of people's pensions, which they have earned throughout their lives, and this amendment should be supported because it represents a decisive step forward compared to the previous ones.
in writing. - there have been recent volcanic eruptions, epidemics of unknown origin, and of course, artificially induced epidemic hysteria. the proposed decision aims to reduce the cross-border health risks associated with such events. the early warning and rapid response system was established in 1988 and is now being developed further. the current proposal also aims to broaden the areas of action, for example by preventing the spread of faulty medicines. it also calls for coordination between the different institutional systems. all such material, which is intended to increase the safety of citizens, to reduce health risks, should be supported.
in writing. − although tax policies are essentially a matter for the member states, this is the fourth time that the european parliament has delivered an opinion on the subject of a financial transaction tax, but given the weight of the matter and the countries involved, we can only say that it is right and very right that we are faced with such an opinion, which does not change the initial decision of the 11 countries involved. it is welcome that the 0.01% and 0.1% key in the draft report would only apply to pension funds in a partial and much reduced form, while sme growth markets would be excluded from the scope of the tax. the recommendation is that a higher tax rate for exchange transactions in the future could make a significant contribution to the creation of more transparent financial markets. however, since ftt is very new and its introduction, although highly recommended, is still not guaranteed at eu-wide and global level, it is important to highlight the application of the review clause every three years, at the earliest by the end of 2016. the draft was adopted by a large majority in the committee, and for all these reasons, and despite the fact that hungary is not a member of the signatories, i recommend that this draft be adopted.
in writing. − the main objective of the financial transaction tax is to ensure that the financial sector contributes proportionally to the fight against the economic crisis. in addition, my new tax would represent tax revenue which would in future be available as additional resources in the union budget in the form of own resources. i voted in favour of the proposal that the tax rates in the draft report should only be applied to pension funds in a reduced form. i think it is appropriate to exclude growth markets for smes from the scope of the tax, as it is not usually pension funds and smes that are active in financial markets with a speculative intention.
in writing. - this stuff is like a knife in apple peeling, penetrates under the peel by a few millimeters, which makes apples a dirty 10, full of absorbed toxins, if they're not from our family farm. transportation safety would be greatly improved if multinational companies did not drive tens of thousands of trucks around transporting the many garbage items called goods and food. we should put every truck in transit on a railroad. our children are in school for 12 to 17 years, but that doesn't include first aid training. it should be developed into a skill that is practiced on a routine level over many years of practice. turns out, most medical schools don't even have a basic education! the dissemination of the 911 caller? you could do it right, it doesn't work here. as long as the goal is to reduce population, to feed the drug lobby, even small progress is a great thing to celebrate. so i've decided to vote for it anyway.
of course i voted against the tavares report. i voted no because i am a hungarian and i believe that a patriotic and nationally conscious person should never vote for his country to lose its independence and be placed under international guardianship. i voted no because i am a lawyer and i believe that this whole report, as it stands, is without any legal basis, in other words, totally illegal. this is what the report itself says in paragraph 72, when it says that the eu does not have effective controls and sanctions in relation to the copenhagen dilemma. if you want to change this situation, the solution is not to act illegally against a country, but to change the relevant treaties if other countries want to give up their independence. we hungarians, of course, do not want to.
i'm getting married tonight. rui tavares is being apostrophized as a "comrade" for his report against hungary, but it is not just a nominal omission, but the former far-left party of the portuguese green mp also gives rise to serious reservations. it is said that lenin originated the label, which he used to describe pro-soviet western personalities as useful idiots. mutatis mutandis, it may soon be proven that those who voted in good faith for the tavares report were not really defending the fundamental european values, but were indulging in the misleading propaganda of the former communists and their left-liberal cronies, and were stigmatizing hungary. those who did this, whether they wanted to or not, were hindering the process of democratic change in hungary and the european integration of the post-soviet countries. that's not why i voted for the tavares report.
in writing. - i did not vote for the tavares report, the party's report on the socialist, liberal, green and communist deputies' dictatorship against hungary. i find the report's findings based on lies, errors and omissions, and its deeply offensive style, unacceptable. the document calls for elements to be taken into account by the hungarian parliament that the european parliament does not require from other countries. i strongly reject the unfair treatment of my country, which is fundamentally contrary to the treaty on european union. it is a shame that the left-wing majority of the european parliament is imposing dictates on the freely elected hungarian parliament for partisan reasons. in my opinion, the proposal in the tavares report to put the country under guardianship seriously undermines and limits the independence of hungary.
in writing. − hungary, its government and prime minister viktor orbán have repeatedly stated that they will cooperate with the european commission to resolve any disputes in a constructive dialogue. however, this is far from what the tavares report is about, and that is why i can say with certainty that as a member of the european parliament i cannot support a report which is not constructive, which is not based on legal arguments. this report goes far beyond its mandate as set out in the rules of procedure, seriously offends hungary, unfairly and openly applies a double standard to hungary and seeks to place under the guardianship and control of a country and its government which has put its national economy on a path of stability and growth in three years. hungary is doing better. the fact that hungary has finally been released from the excessive deficit procedure after a long period is a good example. the right of each country to draft and amend its own constitution is the essence of the principle of subsidiarity, which means that each country must establish a constitution that respects its traditions and customs, and that is consistent with national and eu values and the rule of law.
in writing. − hungary is a free, democratic state governed by the rule of law, whose quality is objectively comparable to that of any member state, both in terms of its constitution, its constitutional court and its laws. my argument is that the report is a tool in the political game of the left: first, it calls for the rule of law to be enforced by the government, while it was born in a procedure that in most cases violated the european parliament's own rules. secondly, factual errors, omissions remained in the text, the facts did not disturb the rapporteur, and similar practices in other member states were only objected to in the case of hungary. thirdly, its recommendations go beyond the eu's competence and enter into national competence, using leftist trends such as the definition of the family or the recognition of the churches. reference to the general threat of article 2 has become a trend against right-wing governments. but left-liberal governments, with similar legislation, with their own illegal measures, they do nothing, just because it's their national responsibility. finally, the report calls for election observers for the next parliamentary elections, suggesting that it may be questionable. this is the most important. it proves that after the socialists lost the previous elections (and the liberals were voted out of the hungarian parliament) using their entire european network, they don't spare the means to make the government impossible instead of helping to clean up the mess they left behind. this is the result of that.
in writing. − the tavares report is neither factually nor legally correct, since it completely ignores the european parliament's powers and does not take into account the questions of legal responsibilities and balances between the institutions and the member states. the report also ignores the element in the treaties which clearly states respect for the constitutional traditions and identity of the member states. the text is based on false and dubious political conclusions and also aims at the creation of a new institution which has no moral or legal basis in the history of the european union. this institution would be responsible for monitoring the full outcome and the implementation of the hungarian fundamental rights, including the conduct of future elections, which hungary considers to be a serious interference in its internal affairs, and does not wish to be subject to its guardianship. it is particularly painful that the european socialists, together with the liberals and the greens, are trying to sacrifice and discredit the hard work of the people of a country, their achievements and the good reputation of the country itself in the hope of playing political games and gaining political advantage in the future. the report is deeply offensive both to the hungarian people and to hungary as a whole, and therefore, in my view, unworthy both of the european parliament and of the idea of europeanism, and therefore impossible to support in full.
in writing. - i consider the tavares report to be unworthy of the spirit of european cooperation, and essentially to be the opening of a european campaign by the left-liberal camp. i voted against because the report does not clearly define which areas of the constitutional order of the member states fall within the competence of the european commission and the european parliament respectively and which, under the lisbon treaty, fall within the exclusive competence of the member states. the report clearly goes beyond the european parliament's powers in a number of respects. the report does not clearly and unequivocally define the norms of democracy and the rule of law that apply equally to all member states. the report targets one country without making comparisons, i.e. without examining how the relevant standards apply in other member states. the report ignores the hungarian government's position and findings of fact. the report makes untrue statements about the situation in hungary. the report unduly exceeds the threshold for own-initiative reports set by the european parliament. it follows from the above that the approach and structure of the report is one-sided and biased.
in writing. − i voted against the report because its contents are unacceptable not only for hungary but also for the european union. the report goes against the substance of the lisbon treaty, as it deals with and proposes legal instruments which, under the principle of subsidiarity, fall clearly within the competence of the member states. the hungarian people did not vote to join the european union so that after nine years the left wing of the european parliament could place hungary under political patronage for partisan purposes. this is a serious crisis and a loss of role for the institutions of the european union, because clearly only the european commission and ultimately the european court of justice have the competence to act at such a time, which is what has been done. i condemn in the strongest possible terms any other action which disregards the existing, established and, i stress, applicable rules and legal norms for all, and therefore i reject this report!
in writing. − the european parliament voted today in plenary a resolution urging the european commission and the european council to simplify and speed up access to eu funds and to introduce pre-financing to effectively manage the flood situation in central europe. in addition to the people's party, five other european parliamentary groups were also able to win support for the document. the decision calls on the european commission to simplify and speed up the examination of applications submitted by member states affected by floods and to ensure that eu funds are made available to the most affected regions and member states. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. - the floods that hit europe showed the solidarity of the people. in hungary, extremely well-organized defense works prevented the disaster. it was good to see that hungarians from transylvania and the carpathian basin came in an organized way to help. in fact, foreign tourists have joined the defense. the people have stood their ground, now it's our turn. that is what has prompted me to propose this motion for a resolution. of course, when we think of disasters, we immediately think of the european solidarity fund and its access constraints. access to funds is slow and secondary, while disasters are fast and require immediate assistance. in addition, the assessment of compliance with the criteria for use is time-consuming. on this basis, we propose that the revision of the rules be simplified and that the possibility of prefinancing be introduced. i would also like to draw the commission's attention to the important fact that in the event of natural disasters there may be a risk of a fall in the use of resources. i also regret that the conclusions of the european council on floods cannot be incorporated in our resolution, which would encourage the maximum possible use of financial resources to ensure that immediate mitigation and reconstruction and future preventive measures can be implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. − the june floods in central and eastern europe not only brought record floods, but also a rare combination. eu financial resources are also available for flood mitigation and reconstruction (such as the european solidarity fund, the structural funds and the cohesion funds), but access to these financial resources is excessively complex and time-consuming. i voted in favour of today's resolution, which calls on the european commission to simplify and speed up the processing of applications from flood-affected member states and to ensure that eu funds are made available as soon as possible to the most affected regions and member states.
in writing. − the draft basically builds on the work and findings of the likannen group set up by the commission in february 2012, but goes further and sets out its objectives in a more ambitious way, to the delight of many of us. the draft sought to change the basic banking culture, a theme that is precisely one of the sub-areas where and why the financial crisis was able to take hold and continue in some member states. the text very correctly reflects the principle that the safest way to stabilise the banking system is to permanently separate the bank's risky transactions from its deposit-taking and other commercial activities. i strongly agree with this statement, as this is the only way to achieve in the long term simpler and more transparent banking rules, smoother supervision and, where appropriate, recapitalisation. the draft is good and offers genuine pan-european solutions, so i would definitely recommend it for support!
in writing. − i welcome the rapporteur's report on the fight against fraud, as action at european level against fraud is in the interest of all european citizens. the introduction of thresholds by olaf in setting the investigation priorities for 2012 and 2013 is a matter of concern. the office examines the likely financial impact of each case on a case-by-case basis and if it does not reach a certain value, it is highly unlikely that olaf will investigate the case. the thresholds set are very high, although all irregularities and fraud should be investigated with the same standard rather than selecting between cases of minor and major importance. it is also regrettable that more than half of the olaf investigations that went to the judicial stage between 2006 and 2011 have not yet resulted in a judicial decision. the report points out that one of the most effective ways of reducing vat and tax fraud is to link commercial transactions in real time with tax authorities, which is being developed in several member states, including hungary.
blue-card question. – i wonder whether you think it would be a good idea to take the report on hungary, see what kind of standards the european union imposed on hungary and compare it with the greek situation. if there is such a thing as the rule of law in this institution, the european union, then maybe we should use the same standards for everybody. you made a very good suggestion, mr stadler, and i thank you very much for it. do you think that it would be a good idea to do this? certainly hungary did not close down its public television, yet still we are offended and remain subject to a great deal of criticism all the time. perhaps the same standards would be a good idea. what do you think?
public service television and radio play a vital role in providing the population of a country with adequate and balanced information. this is especially important when a country is in a difficult economic situation, as greece is now, and in many respects, there are political uncertainties, as greece is now. we also know that in greece, public radio and television were the main source of information for greeks living abroad, who otherwise don't get much of a chance to hear the news at home. we know that there is a lot of pressure on the greek government to reduce the number of public employees, but we still think it is unacceptable that this should happen without any kind of consultation before the closure of the public television, the public radio, or the closure of the public broadcaster. we know from colleagues and the press that there were serious problems with the public broadcasting company and it seems justified that the number of employees there should be reduced, that the public broadcasting needs to be reformed. we would like to draw the attention of the greek government to what the european parliament has recently adopted, namely the parliamentary report on media freedom and its minimum requirements, which lists in detail the elements that are important in order for this kind of transformation, this kind of reform, to be considered and to be carried out in this direction. this includes ensuring the living and working conditions of journalists, ensuring the conditions for investigative journalism, and providing adequate funding for public service. it's got a self-regulatory board and all kinds of other things. we would like to see the greek government continue to do so, and we will see that in the near future.
i would like to ask for a briefing, because the european parliament has been speaking in complete agreement for hours about the united states trampling on human rights and the rule of law, and at the same time a few hours ago the same european parliament adopted by a majority the tavares report, paragraph 66 of which states, among other things, that 'even the united states government has voiced its concerns about the situation in hungary'. i ask you, what exactly is the united states' problem with hungary? that too few people are being interviewed in hungary, or too few private correspondence is being read, or maybe that we don't have our own guantanamo where we torture political prisoners? and my other question is, after all that has been said here today about the trampling on human rights, do you still consider the united states to be the guiding light for human rights? do you want to teach hungary a lesson together with the united states?
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, my congratulations to mr duff. i think that the work on this particular dossier has been excellent. the thrust of this report is to ensure that the elections to the european parliament next year are held with a maximum of success. at the same time, the report also wants to ensure that these are, to the extent that is possible, european elections with the stress on european. we know from the past that national issues tend to hijack the european dimension of these elections. a consequence of this is that the turnout is less than satisfactory and that voters have been known to use the european elections as a protest vote, assuming that what happens in the european parliament is secondary. we here know that this is a misreading of the situation, but the voters are less clear on the issue. to remedy this, the assumption is that european level political parties will play an enhanced role in the elections and crucially that they will nominate candidates for the presidency of the commission. the logic is that thereby the next president of the commission will enjoy greater legitimacy and be more accountable to the citizens of europe. this step further means that a european-level campaign will be held – should be held – in order to maximise the awareness of the citizens of europe that politics today is more than national. the main point here is that over the years a good deal of power has migrated from the member states to the european union on a variety of grounds – effectiveness, the interdependence of the states of europe, the integration of many functions. this process also signifies that it is vital that the power of the european union be fully legitimated at the level at which it is exercised, the european level. next year’s elections should be a key step in that direction.
mr president, we are all aware of the very high stakes associated with the next european elections. one of the major challenges will be to ensure a genuine european debate. we may disagree politically, but i am sure that we can all agree that european citizens deserve a campaign which clearly outlines the common challenges that europe is facing and the different political alternatives. it is also crucial to strengthen the transparency and democratic legitimacy of the european union which has suffered from the way the crisis has been handled so far. as representatives of the citizens, members of the european parliament have a crucial role to play; in particular since the european parliament has been granted extended powers with the treaty of lisbon. having a common candidate for the presidency of the european commission will help to defend the different european political programmes. we call on the council to duly take into account the results of the election when nominating the candidate for the crucial position – as provided for in the lisbon treaty. therefore i fully support the provisions contained in the report of mr duff and i sincerely hope that member states will make the necessary arrangements which will strengthen the democratic life of the european union. furthermore, let me underline the importance of having candidates who represent the european society in its diversity. it is paramount to have women, young people and people from minorities running for the elections at an appropriate position on the list. when it comes to women, we are still far from parity; a clear signal must be sent and this is a matter of democracy. parliament has to lead by example when it comes to gender equality and, as a shadow rapporteur of the report on european political parties, i am strongly in favour, dear viviane reding, of european parties having a status. let us hope that the lithuanian presidency will bring it about, and i note their absence at this crucial debate.
in writing. at the beginning of this year, norway significantly increased its customs duties on certain agricultural products originating in the european union without prior consultation. such trade restrictive measures are detrimental to the interests of european farmers. the norwegian government should withdraw the unilaterally imposed measures which are detrimental to european producers. the european commission must, now and in the future, always act decisively in the interests of european producers, including farmers in any member state. the european union is not only the world's largest food importer, but also the largest agricultural exporter. the common commercial policy is not only intended to protect european producers and consumers from products from third countries that do not meet european standards for the environment, animal welfare and food safety, but also to promote european agricultural exports to markets outside the eu.
in writing. i regard the further reduction in roaming charges at the beginning of the week as a major step forward in the creation of the single market, in line with the roaming regulation adopted last year. market players are also being forced to compete more in the area of data roaming, which is particularly important as the market for data roaming services has increased by more than six times in the last six years. i agree with the aim of regulation: to create a functioning internal market in roaming services and to close the gap between domestic tariffs and roaming charges. the roaming regulation still does not address the shortcomings resulting from structural imbalances in the market. therefore, in the future, greater competition between technologies and service providers and free access to infrastructure should be ensured. in order to encourage competition, it is important that the roaming regulation does not lead to further concentration of the telecommunications market but also allows new entrants to enter the market. i consider it essential, alongside the reduction of roaming charges and structural reforms, to coordinate implementation in the member states and to ensure greater transparency. the commission's analysis shows that there is a lack of transposition in many countries. from the consumer's point of view, the main problem is the quality of internet services, and prices and packages are difficult to compare. the role of regulatory authorities and consumer organisations should be strengthened in order to monitor service quality and prices.
we have discussed the social impact of the crisis on several occasions, and reports have been produced on possible solutions. the main message was that the union's fundamental values should be respected in times of crisis, that health and social care should be treated as a fundamental right, and that special attention should be paid to the most vulnerable groups in society. but at the same time, we see that despite all our efforts, the proportion of the population at risk of poverty is very high, inequality is increasing, exclusion is increasing, the poor are getting poorer. the budget allocated to health and social care has been reduced, the quality of and access to care has deteriorated, and in some member states the most vulnerable are being treated as scapegoats and criminalised. social work is mostly done by older people, women, guest workers. we therefore call on the member states to improve the image of social work, to promote social work education, to recruit young people to this profession and, rather than seeking to reduce it, to make better use of the financial opportunities of the european social fund, which will open in 2014, to promote social inclusion for the poorest.
the lambert report rightly points out that article 19 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities provides for access to a range of home, institutional and community-based support services. the european union is a party to this convention. this is set out in detail in several sections of the report, in particular in sections 14, 15 and 16. i therefore ask the commission to put pressure on the member states to change and solve institutional or community benefits based on the dignity and needs of people with disabilities on the basis of the report. i know this process is long and difficult. in hungary, this change started two years ago and a 30-year institutional change strategy was born. the european union has started to build up small institutions using its own resources. unfortunately, there are few good examples of this in the european union. i would like all the member states of the union to follow this path and to ensure that people with disabilities can receive genuine care in the future.
officer, please. thank you for your information and for your interest in this issue, not only in theory but also in practice. as part of an ongoing evaluation, i would like to review how this life-saving emergency number works in practice in the member states. allow me to share my own experience with you. this emergency number was introduced in hungary in 2006 and since 2012 19 million euros have been spent to eliminate or remove the previous numbers from the system and to allow this number to fulfil its function from the real one. i think these objectives should be encouraged. i agree with president harbour that in the 21st century, it is unacceptable for this system to operate without a common it infrastructure, which does not ensure the importance of data retrieval and localization. i would like to join those members in stressing the need for equal access for all citizens. people with disabilities are even more difficult to reach and use this helpline. i'll tell you, officer, my experience has been less than favorable. i've tried it in a few member states, and there are different ways that this number can be dialed and help. that's not the proper procedure in this case. this unification must be pursued by all means. i think this is a very useful debate, and i think the purpose of this debate is very important. all the members are saying the same thing: we expect the commission to recognise and make this emergency number more widely known, more comprehensively, and therefore there needs to be a kind of awareness in this system, which i think should be ensured not in the distant future but in the very near future. we are ready for this cooperation, but we expect the commission to play a leading role in this process.
in writing. the connected television directive was necessary because of the rapid development of media services and the convergence of technologies. television viewing was associated with internet access, a non-linear media service which is no longer covered by the previously adopted audiovisual media services directive. i congratulate the rapporteur on her proposal to improve the guidelines already adopted and on her attention to their modernisation as technology advances. the report is pleased to make a special mention of the protection of personal data of users. i agree that in the free flow of data, it's important to maintain user anonymity. further development of the audiovisual media services directive is also essential because media services are part of social policy and therefore the free availability of content to the media user must be ensured. i'll be voting for the report myself!
mr president, on behalf of the ppe group i would like to propose an oral amendment which is the following: ‘instructs the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and its committee on foreign affairs, within their respective sphere of responsibilities, to conduct an in-depth inquiry into the matter in collaboration with national parliaments and the eu-us expert group set up by the commission and to report back by the end of the year by:’. this is the text we would like to include. there is an obvious reason to include the committee on foreign affairs in this respect as well.
in writing. − one of the main priorities of the eu’s internal security strategy is to fight cross-border crimes concerning information and communications networks (cybercrime). i welcome the proposal to update the directive which places greater emphasis on the emergence of large-scale simultaneous attacks against information systems and the increased criminal use of ‘botnet’ attacks, in which a large number of computers are infected in order to control them remotely, without the users’ knowledge. i would like to send my congratulations to the rapporteur, ms monika hohlmeier, for her achievements in overcoming the council’s resistance by adding an initiative to set up minimum levels of security for it systems and establishing adequate reporting channels for cyber-attacks. most of the cyber criminals, when they commit cybercrime, are not under the jurisdiction of the country where the cybercrime occurred. differences in the domestic legislation of member states pose a barrier to carrying out the prosecution and identification of cyber criminals effectively. the proposed directive will help to improve operational cooperation between the different law enforcement and judicial authorities. another positive result of the negotiations is the establishment of sound criminal law and a prevention-oriented approach to cybercrime.
in writing. − the leaks over the us prism surveillance programme have profoundly shaken eu citizens’ trust and confidence in the european institutions to safeguard their most fundamental freedoms relating to their private and family lives. maintaining the balance between security and privacy is one of the pillars of the common european security policy and the eu’s internal security strategy. therefore, we need a quick and clear response from the us to give us a better picture of what happened and to make sure that our transatlantic relations and common interests are not damaged. as the rules on privacy and data protection are stricter in europe than in the us, it is vital that we take a firm position while ensuring that all eu citizens receive full legal protection in the us. however, it is crucial that the eu avoid suspending eu-us talks on a transatlantic trade agreement as this could boost the economy and create greater job opportunities.
in writing. − the european parliament's plenary today adopted by a large majority a report which makes recommendations to european and national political parties on the conduct of the 2014 european elections. the report focuses on the idea that european parties should nominate their candidate for the post of president of the european commission well before the elections. the recommendations now formulated by parliament would see the candidates nominated by the european parties for the post of president of the commission present their political programme before the elections and debate it in public debates as part of a european-wide campaign. this means that although the exact composition of the commission will only be decided after the elections as a result of negotiations between parliament and the council, eu citizens will now be able to vote in the light of the electoral programmes which will determine the union's future for the next five years. the aim is to give european union policy greater legitimacy and accountability to the citizens of the european union.
in writing. − i believe it is important that voters, especially the younger generations, become aware that the eu is not an institution that is distant from them, but that they are the ones who make it up. it is therefore important that they express their views so that the representatives they elect can truly represent their interests on the european stage. the ep elections offer exactly one means by which citizens can become active participants in eu processes, and have a tangible influence on them. the 2013 european year of citizens related programmes, events and activities will help the eu institutions and member states to raise awareness among their citizens of the importance of voting in elections. i hope that all this will lead to the fact that the next year's elections will be attended by the younger generation in large numbers and with joy!
in writing. - i welcome the report on access to care for vulnerable groups which has just been voted on. as the report highlights in several points, the most vulnerable groups are children and young people. you don't have to go far to find shocking data: millions of malnourished children live in europe. therefore, all programmes and initiatives that address child poverty and hunger at local, national or international level should be supported. hungary is at the forefront of such programmes - i am thinking here of the initiative entitled 'every child should live well', which provides thousands of children with warm meals every day, or the elizabeth programme, which was set up two years ago. thanks to the elizabeth programme, this year more than 40 000 children and young people from disadvantaged backgrounds, with disabilities or from large families will be able to tell you that they did not just spend their summer in the house or on the playground next to the block, but that they really did go on holiday: they travelled, they relaxed, they had new experiences and they made new friends. and this is a long-term investment that will pay off in 15 to 20 years, when these children are grown up. i believe that the social responsibility of the state is essential to improve the situation of the most vulnerable groups. therefore, good examples should be promoted at international level so that member states can share best practices with each other and apply them in their own countries.
in writing. − i support the report on connected television, as i believe it is important to keep pace with technological developments, above all in the interest of the media user. the already adopted audiovisual service requirements directive does not cover the regulation of non-linear media services in more detail and therefore needs to be further developed. the increased protection of personal data of users should be taken into account, thus ensuring the use of the anonymous mode of use in the free flow of data. media services are part of social policy, so it is important to ensure that content is freely available to the user. we must compete with today's rapidly advancing technology to protect ourselves and our fellow man.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the situation in djibouti.
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the situation in nigeria.
before proceeding to the next item, i have been informed that somebody wanted to raise a point of order after not being given the floor in the catch-the-eye procedure. i would like to mention that catch-the-eye is a possibility but not a right. it depends on the president as to who is given the floor and who is not. two people were scheduled to speak and i gave the floor to five speakers. i am sorry, but there were too many requests. this is the normal procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i'll close the voting hour.
the following point is inserted after point (a) of the joint debate on the following reports: report by alexandra thein on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships (com2011) 0127c70094/20112011/0060(cns)) (a7-0254/2013),and report by alexandra thein on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matters relating to matrimonial property regimes (com2011) 0126c793/20112011/0059 ((cns)) (a7-0253/2013).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 september 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following item is added to the debate on the report by elena oana antonescu, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the right to legal assistance during criminal proceedings and the right to communicate after arrest (com ((2011) 0326c7157/20112011/0154 ((cod)) (a7-0228/2013)
first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and her willingness to compromise. i believe that, after guaranteeing the right to interpretation and to information, by providing access to a lawyer, our citizens have access to a further tangible aid, a tool, if they are subject to criminal proceedings in another member state. the directive is essential because, in a europe without borders, the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services must go hand in hand with the need for our citizens who may be subject to criminal proceedings to know their rights, to understand the procedure, to be able to understand themselves and, last but not least, to receive legal assistance and legal counsel at the most difficult moments of the procedure, and to be able to keep in touch with their families regardless of borders. these procedural guarantees including protection for victims are those which give concrete content to the fundamental objectives of the european union. this makes community law truly alive.
i would like to close with two comments: mrs ludford mentioned that the lawyer must be active in the proceedings. i come from a country where for many years the activity of lawyers has been to apologize, to try to give this accused person a lesser sentence with mitigating circumstances. in comparison, today's situation is a wonderful step forward for democracy. finally, i hope that as few european citizens as possible will take advantage of these rights, which are now clearly defined. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 september 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted in the annex to the report by corinne lepage on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of energy from renewable sources (com (2012) 0595 c7-0337/2012 2012/0288 (cod)) (a7-0279/2013)
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. - the proposal sets a dangerous precedent. for the first time, the eu is partially backing away from a renewable energy target. this will have a negative impact on all future investors in the renewable energy market. the agri committee's view is that the regulation of land-use change is unfounded and unacceptable because it does not take into account the increase in production efficiency and protein production. we propose to increase the first generation ceiling from 5% to 8% and we propose to maintain the regulation beyond 2020 to ensure the safety of second generation investments, because this is the only way to ensure a return on investment. we reject the multiple accounting for second generation fuels, except for electricity generated from renewable energy, where we propose to increase it from 2.5 to 4 times. the replication undermines the original 10% target. the agricultural significance of the proposal is that in the recent reforms, when the sugar reform and maize intervention were abolished, it was promised that the lost sugar and maize production could then be used for biofuel production. this move now means that they have cheated the farmers and they are cheating the people who invested in this industry.
i agree that the european commission's biofuel quota directive needs to be reviewed. but we should do it rationally, flexibly and differentially. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. the situation in the new member states is very different from that in the old member states. most of the new member states, including my own, would be able to produce more biofuel feedstock without adding new land, new land for food production, as a result of higher agricultural yields in the future and the use of land that is currently fallow. so in the new member states, i would ask the commission to take account of the different situation in the new member states, because the current proposal is unsettling investors, it is putting 4,000 jobs in my country at risk.
first of all, i'd like to thank congressman buzek for his work. he has put on the table an excellent, very good report which sums up very well the problems of the current energy market. i would like to emphasize the intention of the commission to reduce the population of the island. let's find solutions that will reduce energy costs. i don't know if my colleagues in the house are aware, but in the central european region, where we come from, mr buzek and i, half the cost of living for the average person is what the cost of living is, which i think is unsustainable. it's also very important that we try to support the installation of small power plants, small power plants that serve the population, and for this we should give as many opportunities as possible to turn the local sewage treatment, the agricultural products that are not used today, into biogas and electricity, because it makes the livelihood of the population cheaper.
in march this year i asked the commissioner about this matter, whether the commission was planning to regulate wages at eu level or whether it was recommending ways of reducing this wage gap. your answer was very objective, but very theoretical and general. he said, as i said here, that the eu 2020 priority will be tomorrow on this issue, which i think is a little bit. very few 57 years of theoretical plane to talk about this question. obviously, this is not entirely within the commissioner's competence, but what we could do, and what i asked for in the question, is to have an action plan on this subject, on this proposal, to have a recommendation at eu level, which we can formulate even within the framework of the european semester, and to have a practical implementation platform.
in writing. – as emphasised in the question tabled on behalf of the committee on womenʼs rights and gender equality, the gender pay gap remains a lingering inequality that no legislation has been able to overcome in the past 40 years. therefore it is high time to rethink it if we want to be serious about it. accepting this inequality would be accepting all inequalities! the consequences of the gender pay gap, such as the resulting pension gap, keep putting women at a greater risk of poverty than men. this is why i would like to use this debate to formulate the proposals and demands put forward by the party of european socialists: firstly, a gender pay gap audit to check whether all member states actively engage on reducing this gap. secondly, improved monitoring of the implementation of anti-discrimination and gender equality legislation, including through the application of sanctions. experience has proved that without binding measures little progress can be expected. thirdly, the appointment of a european commissioner for gender equality and women’s rights fully engaged on the issue of the gender pay gap as of 2014.
i would like to join my colleague in this, because the romanian government's decision at the end of august means that there is a real risk of a resumption of gold mining using cyanide technology in verespatak. due to the catastrophic nature of cyanide and the cross-border nature of the pollution, most eu member states have banned cyanide gold mining and, indeed, the european parliament adopted by an overwhelming majority in 2010 a resolution, which i co-authored, calling on the european commission to ban cyanide gold mining altogether in the eu. the investment is not a romanian internal matter. it is not clear why the romanian government does not require the investor to use the much safer closed cyanide technology. it is not clear why it does not require the investor to take out adequate environmental liability insurance.
the romanian government submitted a bill to parliament at the end of august that allows the opening of the gold and silver mine in verespatak from 2016. this creates an environmental risk that threatens not only romania but also the water catchment areas of the carpathian basin. so this is not a domestic matter, it is not a romanian political matter, it is a european matter. but officer potocnik is silent. the commission refuses to implement the european parliament's decision, backed by more than 82% in 2010, which would have required the commission to find a legal solution to ban cyanide mining across europe by the end of 2011. the political decision has not been implemented by the commission, and potocnik is certainly not doing anything. i wrote a letter to him with my colleagues asking him to intervene immediately, as the european commission has done in cases of much less serious nature. if the commissioner does not do this, he will cast suspicion on the european commission, which has an interest in the opening of this mine in verespatak. i find this outrageous, especially with eight countries already united in their opposition to the investment.
i would like to make two points from the report, and i would like to comment on them. one that emphasizes the importance of improving public transportation, which i completely agree with. the development of intermodal hubs, the coordination of suburban and local transport would be the key to reducing air pollution in cities and in the outer suburbs. the role of innovation and research is obviously crucial here - as this report emphasises in several places - as electric buses and biogas-powered public transport should be promoted. the other point is the importance of individual mobility, and to this end, the report places a great deal of emphasis on promoting the spread of safe and healthy means of transport linked to physical activity: such as cycling and walking, which unfortunately has been abandoned, but which i believe can be brought back into urban transport.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i am convinced that one of the european parliament's most important tasks is to protect the environment. the european transport technology strategy is a major determinant of the mobility opportunities for europe's population. all the points in the report before us are of great importance, but i must emphasize that we must take account of the possibilities of renewable energy. only together with environmental awareness can europe regain its rightful place in the world. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! this is a very important report because energy efficiency is a vital part of our task to restore the european union's economy. there are many benefits to being able to increase efficiency, as we just heard. it can create and maintain new jobs, make our economy more competitive and generate new investments that can help to boost the whole r & d sector. i think that we should not change our 2020 target, and even when allocating the next development funds for 2014-2020, we should strive to ensure that both municipalities and economic operators are able to use these funds in a much better proportion. therefore, they should be required to pay lower rates and be offered credit facilities, including risk capital, which enable them to cover their own energy needs.
in writing. i welcome in particular the ideas contained in the report by mrs kekus, which are aimed primarily at improving energy efficiency. this is a highly important issue as energy efficiency investments can have significant economic and social benefits for member states, thereby contributing to increasing the union's competitiveness and employment, in line with the europe 2020 objectives. at the same time, our efforts in energy efficiency can lead to further successes in the fight against climate change. i believe that, in addition to the positive effects on the business sector, reducing the energy dependence of households is also of paramount importance. in this area, concrete solutions are needed to stimulate investment in improving the energy efficiency of households, thereby promoting more cost-effective operations. in hungary, the current government has also faced the problem of skyrocketing energy prices, leaving many families financially destitute and unable to continue to use basic energy services. however, in addition to the exemplary reduction action plan of the hungarian government, further measures to promote energy efficiency are needed.
i have heard a great many personal tragedies from the victims of the so-called foreign currency credit construction in hungary. let me be very clear: this is nothing more than a blatant form of organized criminal activity, and since we are talking about criminals and crime, when we are talking about the banks and bankers who offered these constructs, let me speak briefly about the victim side and the perpetrator side. on the victim side, war-like destruction, suicides, physical and mental illnesses, the breakup of families, forced to leave their homeland, and on the perpetrator side, savage, determined organized criminal circles calling themselves bankers, whose criminal responsibility is the duty of not only hungary but also europe to uncover and establish, and in connection with this, their liability for damages, in person, or the liability of banks for damages to the victims of criminal acts.
i should like to say that i was surprised by the comments of some of my colleagues who were of the opinion that politics should not be involved in this matter. my fellow members of the house of representatives! in some countries, though in different ways, thousands of families have been ruined, made homeless, because it was the wrong policymakers, the wrong economic policies that helped them take out foreign currency loans when they were not informed of the risks, and were actually guided, and were given offers. after that, my colleagues say that we do not need to deal with this issue in the european parliament? are we looking for concerns and loopholes? we need to act immediately at european level and we need to find a way to regulate this matter clearly. congratulations, congressman, this is a very important report.
on behalf of the ppe group. strengthening investor confidence is also crucial for market integration. i congratulate the rapporteur on the very thorough and careful definition of the activity of insider dealing and the concept of manipulation, not only from a legal but also from a market point of view. it also oversaw and interpreted common financial supervision and economic policy sanctions. it also set out objectives which clearly contribute to the reduction of the black economy in europe in this market. it is very important that this proposal for a regulation covers all financial instruments covered by the mifid directive and extends the scope of the market abuse framework. i consider it very important to create a common framework and to set it up for this purpose, because it is suitable to manage markets in a uniform way in the field of market abuse and to increase investor confidence. it is very important and very important that you bring financial instruments under common supervision. the proposal also extends the scope of the directive to all primary and unregulated spot markets. it's also important to identify insider information, especially because this information can be manipulated in any way. i feel very appreciated in the proposal that market players, market participants, are subject to the obligation to disclose, because this is a much wider circle and these participants can actually have a significant impact on the pricing of allowances. i support the need to increase the transparency of the sites of discharge and to have the same conditions for organisational and market surveillance. one last point to be made is that it is not important or necessary to have clear evidence of the intention to manipulate, it is sufficient that there is an indirect possibility of abuse. once again, congratulations to the member and of course i will support the report.
in writing. with today's debate, we are closing an important case that has been dragging on for a long time. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his persistent efforts to amend the regulation again. i am pleased that the rules on the visa suspension clause have been formulated in a way that gives member states greater security in case of emergencies, while also ensuring that its application to third countries is subject to strict rules and conditions. this tool should indeed be reserved for emergencies and should only be introduced in the short term. the amendment of the reciprocity mechanism and its improvement in efficiency are also in the interest of the member states. as a hungarian representative, i have always been keen to ensure that the external borders of the union are open to travellers of good faith and that we do not create unnecessarily large barriers for travellers, thereby hindering contacts between people on both sides of the border. it is also important to preserve the security of our member states.
in writing. - in the european union, as an area without internal borders, the increased mobility of persons has led to a gradual increase in the number of marriages between nationals of different member states. however, the substantive law governing the property effects of marriages and the rules applicable under private international law differ significantly in the member states, and therefore international married couples face significant legal and practical difficulties in the day-to-day management of their property and in the division of property arising from the separation of spouses or the death of one of the spouses. the purpose of this draft regulation is to establish a clear legal framework for situations of a transnational nature, which will contribute to legal certainty and simplification of procedures by harmonising conflict-of-law rules.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i voted for the report because it is a clear step forward in the current situation. let me highlight the importance of cycling routes in the context of the current strategy. the construction and development of cycle paths is an alternative, but fully environmentally and health-friendly option that has been severely lagging behind in the eastern half of the eu. the development of bicycle lanes cannot be delayed, and i therefore urge the committee responsible to initiate immediate resource management for the construction of new bicycle lanes. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − it is appropriate that the european union has also recognised the seriousness of the situation regarding credit agreements for residential property, which has been further aggravated by the financial crisis and the sudden change in exchange rates, putting hundreds of thousands of european families in an impossible situation. i welcome the single market package, which could provide a single european regulatory framework for mortgage lending in the future. this is a particularly important issue for us, hungarians, because many hungarian families have fallen victim to inadequate regulation and irresponsible loan allocation. the problem was often caused by the fact that the customer was not properly informed when borrowing. the government in power would have had a duty to intervene and create regulations that would prevent massive foreign currency borrowing. full, effective and personalised information from banks will be mandatory. in addition to providing thorough information, banks are also obliged to explain the risk factors associated with borrowing, all before the conclusion of the loan agreement, giving customers time to think before making a sound, responsible decision in the knowledge of the available credit conditions and risks. i particularly welcome the introduction of the possibility of prepayment without penalty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, as it proposes to reduce borrowers' risk appetite, regulate the maximum repayment amount, the possibility of changing interest rates, the convertibility of foreign currency loans, and introduce reflection time, personalised advice and the requirement of traceability. it also ensures that home buyers across the eu are better informed and better illustrated about the risks of mortgages, the increase in the repayment instalment due to exchange rate fluctuations and even better protected in the event of a loan default. meps included in the rules the possibility of early repayment of loans without penalty and the possibility of their fair conversion into another currency. the stock of retail foreign currency loans in hungary is one of the largest, which may have developed because bankers, instead of warning about the real risks of foreign currency lending, even chased borrowers into taking irresponsible risks. foreign currency credit is like a defective product that the seller would have to replace or repair in some form, which a uniform eu-wide regulation and support could further promote.
in writing. − the stock of retail foreign currency loans in hungary is one of the largest, which may have developed because bankers, instead of warning about the real risks of foreign currency lending, even encouraged borrowers to take irresponsible risks. the report adopted today calls for an end to this irresponsible practice at eu level. the proposal requires that home buyers throughout the european union receive more thorough and illustrated information on the risks of mortgages, the increase in the payment instalment due to exchange rate fluctuations and greater protection in the event of default. the report shall include early repayment of the loan without penalty and the possibility of its fair conversion into another currency. i voted in favour of the proposal as it reduces the risk exposure of borrowers, regulates the maximum repayment amount, the possibility of changing interest rates, the convertibility of foreign currency loans, and introduces reflection time, personalised advice and traceability as an expectation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which aims to establish a common framework at european level and is well suited to the current regulatory framework for financial transactions. the report includes all financial instruments, including algorithmic trading and high frequency trading (hft), under common supervision, i.e. extending market protection to both primary and unregulated spot markets. it is crucial for everyday life that the proof of individual intent is no longer required for the determination of manipulation or negative market behaviour, but that in future it will be sufficient to establish a link between the behaviour of an individual that gives rise to the abuse and the financial instruments in question, even indirectly. it is also a positive step that the report requires that all organised trading is actually carried out on venues subject to the same conditions as regards transparency, organisation and market surveillance.
in writing. − the single energy market is the key to ensuring that consumers have access to energy at affordable prices and without interruption. i voted in favour of the report as it proposes concrete solutions to address the shortcomings that exist. of these, i consider the following three proposals to be particularly important: first, the unexpected difficulty in several member states was that national grid development investments could not keep up with the rapid growth of renewable energy generation. loop flows are frequent and cause a load on the transmission system of neighbouring member states. i therefore agree that there is a need for better coordination and faster licensing to build the missing infrastructure. secondly, a significant proportion of eu energy products are internationally traded, which is why supervision at eu level is essential in addition to national supervision of wholesale trade. this presents a new challenge for the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and national authorities. i therefore consider it important that the authorities have sufficient resources to carry out their tasks with due diligence. this investment has a multiplier effect, as the cost of detecting one market abuse can be more than the cost of running the agency for a whole year. thirdly, i agree that european gas prices are unreasonably high today. this is partly due to the lack of investments that can offset the surge in renewable energy production. that is why i voted in favour of the efforts to reduce the price of imported gas and to review the indexation of oil prices.
in writing. − i support the initiative to promote energy efficiency, the report sets out the steps taken to strengthen europe's energy efficiency, one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. it is also worth noting that investments in energy efficiency can have significant economic and social benefits for member states, thus helping to increase the union's competitiveness and employment, which is also in line with the objectives of the 2020 strategy. in addition to the positive effects on the business sector, reducing households' energy dependence is also of paramount importance, and i agree that solutions need to be found to encourage investment in improving household energy efficiency.
in writing. − the european union attaches great importance to the cultural and linguistic diversity of its member states and helps citizens to have access to any information of general interest in their own language, be it about the functioning of any of the union's institutions. this means that meps can put forward motions in any of the eu's official languages and speak in the european parliament, which provides official interpretation. however, the multilingualism of parliament is becoming more expensive every year, and translation and interpretation into the 24 official languages of the union already entails costs that require a rethinking of the system. the dutch rapporteur's report contains proposals to make the multilingual system of interpretation and translation more cost-effective and simpler, without causing a reduction in european multilingualism or a decline in the quality of interpretation and translation.
in writing. − in relation to online gambling, particular attention should be paid to the protection of minors and to protecting them from accessing such content. i therefore support the initiative to exchange and share member states' regulations, control methods and experience on such online content and to strengthen cooperation between member states. after all, these activities can easily become addictive and addictive for both adolescents and adults, endangering their financial security. i therefore support the idea that a common regulatory framework is needed for online gambling. as a member of parliament and a sports fan, i agree with the proposal that more effective cooperation at european level is needed to combat match fixing.
in writing. the amount of payment appropriations estimated to be needed by dg r&i in 2014 is eur 4,9 billion. this would ensure the payment of the dividend advance and balance under the existing fp7 grant agreement and, in particular, the pre-financing of new commitments. the current draft budget for 2014 adopted by the commission reduces the amount of payment appropriations for the directorate-general for research and innovation from eur 4,9 billion to eur 3,8 billion. this is a 22% or eur 1.1 billion reduction over the estimates. the draft budget for 2014 will consequently not be sufficient to cover the needs and such a situation will be detrimental to the beneficiaries. the council also approved an administrative cut of eur 14,5 million in commitment and payment appropriations. so far, the council has not explained why it has initiated this cut in staff expenditure. the commission was forced to reduce it because of the constraints on payment appropriations in the mff.
in writing. it is feared that the first victims of the planned austerity measures will once again be the same social groups that are already victims of the crisis: the unemployed, those living below the poverty line, those belonging to minorities, the young and the elderly. the interests of those on the margins of society are lost when investment decisions are made. it's always more spectacular to launch a refurbished public building with community funds, than to provide knowledge, experience, micro-credit to support entrepreneurship for the poor, or to finance competitive skills training for the long-term unemployed instead of public works. it would therefore be important for member states to make the fullest possible use of the european social fund. the poor are the poorest, as the disadvantaged are increasingly seen as scapegoats, a burden on the welfare state. they are punished by measures that allow for the expulsion of a youth from school before he reaches adulthood and for the summoning of a child to court from the age of 12. and anyone who lives on the streets without a home is committing a criminal offence under hungarian law. it is necessary to hold member states to account for the consequences of their decisions, to check what has been achieved by their joint decisions. we can also benefit from the support of civil society and professional organisations working in the field, which can play a major role in publicly assessing the actual results of government commitments.
we all know that youth unemployment is completely choking europe's growth. i want to draw attention to those who are young but also have other disadvantages: they are young people with disabilities. the figures have already been published that in 2011, 6.5 million young people aged 15-24 and 7.5 million young people aged 25-29 were not in education, training or employment. i would argue that a large proportion of young people with disabilities fall into this category. i myself have been advocating that all the unemployed be given better information than ever before about the various employment programmes. but it is young people with disabilities who are not able to access them, because most public services in the european union are still not accessible. they can't access these services because of that. i would like to call on the european commission to prepare effective measures on the basis of this report to make these services truly accessible to young people with disabilities. looks like we got a little time left. today and tomorrow, you will see many disabled people in the european parliament, because tomorrow is a big event. i would love for my colleagues to ask them what accessibility means to them.
i would like to begin by saying that i agree with the conclusions of the report. indeed, this is the first youth strategy that we can present, but the findings in this framework are not practical enough and not practice-oriented enough. unfortunately, the youth unemployment numbers are alarming and they're going to be alarming. it's a trendy alarm these days. in greece, it is more than 60%, in germany 10%. and i showed them the extremes, and i showed them that it's not just young people who can break out of this vicious circle. in this structure, young women are even more disadvantaged. yesterday, we discussed, ladies and gentlemen, the report that is about wages, and we showed that the income gap in this circle is over 16%. so there is no question that there is a need for action at european level to address this issue. it is now a fact that even if young people have a school education, it is not enough to be active in the labour market. if they are not active, we will lose the potential for economic growth and economic performance that they can provide, which could be as much as 153 billion euros. i think that beyond all these strategies, which are of course to be supported, i would just like to illustrate with some practical examples, which are to be implemented shortly, how we can do something. we have to improve the erasmus programme, exchange of traineeships, mutual recognition of diplomas and we could continue with the series of problems that we can solve in the short term.
in writing. one of the best ways to create jobs for young people starting their careers is to introduce tax and benefit incentives, as this can make businesses and companies interested in employing inexperienced labour. supporting university employment is also very important, as it allows young people to work while studying, which not only allows them to be self-sufficient, but also allows a close relationship between employer and employee to develop. the reform of the vocational training system is also essential: a practice-oriented education system is needed, and support for the sme sector is essential to raise the quality of vocational education. it is also of particular importance that the system of grants be operated in areas where there is little interest, such as the natural sciences and engineering. youth unemployment requires an immediate and effective solution, as it has extremely serious social consequences. the young are the future generation! addressing their employment situation in order to stimulate the economy is one of the most important tasks, alongside increasing competitiveness, introducing tax incentives and reducing red tape.
in the air. the eu is experiencing the deepest crisis in its history, with the young generation suffering the greatest loss. in the eu today, more than five and a half million young people under 25 are out of work, while in hungary more than a third of young people are unemployed. the right-wing european council has spent 100 billion euros of european taxpayers' money to rescue the spanish banking system, while it has only 8 billion euros to eliminate youth unemployment over the next seven years. it is worrying that, after the heads of state or government agreed on the main objectives of the next financial framework, namely to increase youth employment, the council would in the 2014 eu budget effectively abolish the youth guarantee, which has not yet been launched. we don't need to make up false promises. i urge the heads of state and government to give priority attention in the future to europe's most pressing issue: tackling youth unemployment. we need a single strategy for growth and jobs, covering all the countries of the union, as proposed by the european socialists since 2011! the introduction of the youth guarantee in my country, hungary, is of particular importance. the continuous austerity, the economic policy that chases away investments, the institutional link in higher education, have made young people lose hope that the hungarian government can change their hopeless situation. let's give them back their faith in the possibility of success. but this will require a lot more political will and eu funds!
i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 12 september 2013.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the threats to freedom of the media and the surveillance of citizens (the miranda case). the following table is added: i would inform members that there will be no 'catch the eye' procedure at the end of this debate and no 'card-of-the-river' questions during the debate.
mr president, as reiterated today by the member of the commission present, the core values of the european union are supposed to be democracy, liberty, the rule of law, and the protection of human rights, including freedom of the press and freedom of expression. if this is really true, then the commission should immediately call upon the member states of the european union to grant political asylum to edward snowden and to all those who have risked their lives and liberty, and faced torture for these core values. as i said, they did risk their lives. what we are doing until this call is made, madam commissioner, is just paying lip service. what is your opinion? are you ready to make that call?
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs isabella löwin, drawn up on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on measures to restore the european eel stock (com) 2012/0413 (c7-0202/2012 (cod)) (a7-0242/2013)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 september 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report on the internal market for services (2012/2144 (ini)) by anna maria corazza bildt, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (a7-0273/2013).
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs corazza bildt, who has done an excellent job. his findings are not only factual and correct, but also very important and a starting point for this topic. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the right direction to take if we take our common objective, the objective of the european union, of being able to open up our internal market to all services completely, literally and want to stick to it. we must see that there are differences in some member states. this is a very sensitive and very important area, and it is therefore important, and i would like to join with commissioner barnier in saying that the appropriate studies should be carried out by means of comparative analysis, and i would also like to join with the rapporteur in saying that it is very important that the final results of these analyses should be formulated in the form of country-specific recommendations for the member states, for the purpose of learning and for reasons of consistency. the aim of the directive is clearly to remove arbitrary obstacles to services. as a politician, my clear aim is that our constituents, the service providers, believe that the internal market of the european union is equally open to them and that the opportunity to trade and to be served there is guaranteed to all of them. i would like them to see this internal market not as an obstacle but as an opportunity and a challenge. i would like to draw attention to two points: the sme sector and another important issue, the priority given to the harmonization of wages within the union. i know that smes have been the subject of much discussion, but i would like to see us find a way to support the market for smes. it has often been said that this is the source and opportunity for growth in the union, and perhaps there is still more to be done. and as for the harmonization of wages, it is equally important, it is also a sensitive issue, because it is an innovative area, and in the case of innovation, i would like to draw attention to the balance, so that we do not suddenly shift to the other side of the horse in innovation, and exclude those who might otherwise choose this form. madam president, thank you for the opportunity, congratulations to the member and i look forward to the full implementation of this directive.
blue-card question. – you mentioned extremism as a problem. what do you think about the mass surveillance of european citizens? this is a question which i wanted to ask mr barroso, but due to a lack of full democracy there is no opportunity to ask him spontaneous questions. what do you think about his adviser, mr györgy konrád? mr konrád is a hungarian who is an adviser of the commission on the future of europe, and he, as a liberal person, thinks that there is nothing wrong with mass surveillance. is it part of the future of europe that it will be ok and accepted that we shall be surveyed by big brother?
in the air. the european commission has made several attempts to tackle the economic crisis, but for now it seems that european citizens are not sure of the results. a recent survey of 28 member states predicts a decline in the number of european parliamentary groups and an upsurge of extremist forces in the 2014 european elections. is the spread of scepticism and the turn away of citizens from the traditional european elite the result of the eu institutions being too concerned with the internal affairs of individual member states instead of the really important issues? hungary, which has been unfairly put on the spot for the past two years, has now proven that it can achieve significant results in consolidating the state finances and improving the living conditions of citizens by pursuing an independent and innovative economic policy. thanks to the efforts of the hungarians, the excessive deficit procedure against hungary was finally closed this year after eight years, and hungary, as the only country to have used an imf loan, prepaid the loan it had taken out from the imf in 2008. in addition, hungary is one of the few countries where the purchasing value of wages has increased this year, pensions have increased and public utility charges have decreased. i am convinced that the credibility of the european union can only be restored if the institutions address the most important issues affecting people and leave room for national solutions. the achievements of hungarian citizens strengthen the community and therefore deserve the recognition of europe. europe can learn from the hungarian model.
in writing. - i voted for the cult commission's own-initiative report. i agree that one of the fundamental principles of the european union is linguistic and cultural diversity, and that all european languages are equal in their value and dignity. the report also highlights the fact that the official languages of the member states may be endangered languages in different parts of the union. i particularly support the point in the report that the european parliament calls on the governments of the member states to condemn practices that cause linguistic discrimination and forced or covert assimilation. i also agree that languages which have been marginalised and are more likely to be confined to the family circle should enjoy the rights of public social use. finally, i believe that the most important thing to be said is that the commission should pay attention to the fact that, by its policies, some member states and regions are putting at risk the survival of languages within their borders, even if these languages are not threatened at european level.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon already placed a high priority on preserving the cultural heritage of the member states, while respecting national and regional diversity. today, hundreds of languages are dying around the world, and in europe there are languages that are spoken by very few people. these languages are part of europe's cultural heritage. it is not only our task to recognise these languages, but also to commit the member states to preserving and protecting the richness of their linguistic heritage. in the field of language use, the individuals who speak these endangered languages should also be treated equally in the conduct of public affairs. i also welcome the eu's support for the rescue of endangered languages and the efforts to strengthen the role of such languages in the various member states' education systems and in the local media.
in writing. − today i was pleased to vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on endangered languages. the ep has not adopted a report on regional, minority or endangered languages since 2003, which is why today's decision, adopted by a large majority, is important. in my amendments to the report, which were tabled and voted, which i tabled on a number of occasions with regard to the use of the hungarian language by minorities, including the use of the hungarian language by the cypriots, i pointed out that countries should not regard all the languages spoken on their territory as a burden but as a value and an opportunity. i also considered it important to emphasise that a language may be endangered in relation to a particular area if it was historically spoken in that area; therefore, the monitoring of census data is important in this respect. i also considered it essential to emphasise the role of the media and new technologies, which, and their support, can play a major role in the survival, preservation and transmission of endangered languages between generations. according to unesco, more than 100 languages are considered endangered in the european union. the european union and its member states, individually and collectively, have a duty to promote these languages, thus preserving the values inherent in linguistic diversity. if no change is made in this area, further minority languages and communities may be at risk, which is why joint action is important.
in writing. − i support the amendment of the regulation on the european environment agency and the european information and observation network as regards the procedure for the appointment of the executive director. i agree with the fundamental objectives of aligning the procedure for appointing the director with the procedures for filling the post of executive director of other agencies, so that the competent body of the european parliament is formally entitled to hear the person selected by the management board of the european environment agency for the post of executive director before his appointment.
in writing. - i supported the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and austria, which had applied for the possibility of mobilising the fund following the heavy rains that occurred in late october and early november 2012. in the case of several rivers that had left the medrese, the situation was one that the european union had set up the fund to deal with. the mobilisation of the fund is an expression of solidarity with the population of the regions affected by the disaster.
in writing. − the european union has recently made energy efficiency a priority and all member states are working to achieve the mandatory percentage target by 2020. to this end, i believe it is important to pay attention to the energy demand of the transport sector, which is showing an increasing trend, making it difficult to achieve energy efficiency targets. in addition, further regulation is needed to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. zero or low-uhg biofuels should be used in transport and i agree with the objective of further encouraging biofuel production.
in writing. − hungary has become one of the largest producers of bioethanol in the eu over the last decade. bioethanol production not only provides a secure market for corn produced in our country and thus provides a stable income for farmers, but also contributes to our ability to export high added value industrial products instead of raw materials. the report aimed at curbing the use of conventional biofuels could create a dangerous and disadvantageous precedent for hungarian farmers in terms of supporting renewable energy and ensuring the eu's energy independence. if the proposal were adopted, thousands of jobs would be at risk and significant investments would be lost. that is why i voted against the eu's limitation of the production of conventional biofuels.
in writing. − the customs union is an essential element of the functioning of the single market, and the functioning of the single market can only be adequate if common modern customs rules and systems are applied in a common and uniform manner. i supported the report because, as my colleague mr le grip has suggested, the revised eu customs code should also give greater weight to the link between the status of authorised economic operator and a lower number of customs controls. i think it's very important, too. however, i believe that after the end of the test period, simplification should be assessed and, if found to be successful and beneficial to the member states, could be incorporated into the legislation by means of delegated acts.
in writing. − the customs union is an essential element of the functioning of the single market, which can only function properly if modern customs rules and systems are applied in a common and uniform manner. to that end, the revised union customs code proposes to amend certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 450/2008. the amendments concern the majority of the provisions of the regulation establishing the community customs code, due to the need for alignment with the treaty of lisbon and due to the need for adaptation due to changes in the relevant union legislation. in its draft legislative resolution, parliament stresses the importance of the status of authorised economic operator and the use of electronic systems for all member states, while respecting the interinstitutional agreement on the revision of legal acts. i shall vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the own-initiative report of the committee on culture and education, which summarises the results of the first cycle of the eu youth strategy (2010-2018) (2010-2012) in order to ensure the future of the european union and the effective implementation of youth policy. this period was intended to increase cooperation between member states in the field of youth policy, and i agree with the rapporteur that this priority has been implemented by the member states in a satisfactory manner overall. however, there is concern that the protracted crisis is increasing youth unemployment. this issue needs to be addressed more effectively, promoting the employability of young people, encouraging entrepreneurship and youth participation in enterprises. the report also highlights the role of new technology and social media, which is missing from the eu youth strategy. the youth guarantee scheme adopted at the beginning of the year was an important step forward in improving the opportunities for young people.
in writing. − as in the rest of the union, statistics in hungary show that the employment rate of young people aged 15-24 is gradually declining. and youth unemployment has risen to a level that requires urgent attention. in the report, the rapporteur calls on the member states to develop and implement a national action plan to address the issue. in this context, i consider it important to mention that hungary has taken the lead in the fight against youth unemployment and that the hungarian long-term national youth strategy has set out an action plan to tackle the problem by 2020, effectively and targetedly addressing the problem, keeping in mind the eu objectives.
in writing. − despite the alarmingly high level of youth unemployment, there are about 2 million unfilled vacancies in the eu, mostly due to a lack of workers possessing the skills required in the local job market. part of the solution for unemployment may therefore be the development of high quality vocational education and training systems, with highly qualified teachers and trainers, innovative learning methods, high-quality infrastructure and facilities, high labour market relevance, and pathways to further education and training. vocational education is more closely linked to the labour market than other sectors of education or training, yet the potential of work-based learning – and in particular apprenticeships – to tackle youth employment has not yet been fully exploited in many countries. real and tangible opportunities must be provided for young people that enable them to avoid a long and harmful absence from the labour market, preserve and enhance their human capital, maintain their employment and career prospects in the long run, and increase their earning potential. a greater emphasis must be placed by member states also on early childhood development, which can play a decisive role in breaking the vicious intergenerational cycle of low human development for disadvantaged children.
in writing. - i supported the report, as the issue of youth unemployment is becoming more urgent in the face of rising unemployment rates. i am particularly concerned that there is a significant variation in the rate of youth unemployment between member states. the crisis has led to an increase in redundancies, and it is unfortunately generally observed that young people with fixed-term contracts are most frequently and most affected. this process also negatively affects the development of family planning. for these reasons, i agree with the rapporteur that initiatives to support enterprises, to preserve jobs and to create new ones are the appropriate solution. the problem of the education system often producing qualifications that are not in line with labour market needs also needs to be addressed. i think the institution of career guidance is important in this regard.
in writing. − the number of young unemployed in the european union has reached 5.5 million, which is why eu initiatives and measures aimed at reducing youth unemployment are very important. measures to strengthen the fight against youth unemployment should be coordinated with reforms of employment and education policies, which aim to adapt education and training to real labour market needs. another important and concrete measure is the tax incentives for businesses, which can create new jobs or preserve jobs by reducing the tax burden on businesses. another important step is to encourage self-employment, help young people to become entrepreneurs, further develop the career guidance system, support professional mobility and the 'erasmus for all' programme, which is also a means of strengthening young people's skills through work experience and thus gaining an advantage on the labour market.
in writing. − the issue of youth unemployment is particularly acute for young women and mothers. for example, a survey this year found that half of mothers on parental leave in hungary have a job to which they can return. the results also show that this ratio is closely related to education. (higher education graduates are in the best position 92% are able to return to work , while only 12% of women with a grade of 8 or above are able to do so.) it is therefore important to ensure part-time work, the possibility of teleworking from home and the introduction of a much higher proportion of flexible working hours for young mothers. the package of measures aimed at increasing the participation of women in continuing training by making it free of charge during the period of childcare should also be supported. but not only is post-treatment the answer, prevention is just as important. so i would like to highlight the initiative of the international day of the girl child (april 25). this programme, which is being implemented in a growing number of member states, gives young girls an insight into the daily life of companies and higher education institutions as early as secondary school age. this will also introduce them to "rejuvenated" professions such as research and development or engineering. this experience can have a profound effect on their career choices and their future prospects as young women and mothers.
in writing. − the service sector is one of the potential areas for increasing employment and putting european economies on a growth path, as the report shows, with the service sector accounting for 65% of eu gdp. the future competitiveness of the industry requires service policies that support the growth and further development of the industry and eliminate unnecessary over-regulation and restrictions that often hinder growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs corazza bildt, because i believe that her conclusions are extremely relevant and timely. of course, there were critics who attacked the reporter for his tough, a little over the top suggestions, but i still think that's the right communication on this subject! this is the right direction, because our ultimate aim is for the european union to finally open up the market to service providers, to remove protectionist barriers to the exercise of service activities in the member states and to fulfil the principle of free movement which is the basis of the common market. in short, european operators should be able to offer their services anywhere in the eu without any bureaucratic obstacles. my country, hungary, also aims to make full use of the opportunities of the eu's internal market and to enable hungarians to exploit its advantages. the hungarian european policy always strives to make the concept of the eu internal market synonymous with opportunities rather than challenges for hungarian consumers and entrepreneurs. it has been proven on several occasions that fragmentation and restrictive national measures cause unnecessary red tape and costs, especially for smes. we have always fought against this and we will continue to fight against it. it is therefore important to make much better use of existing tools such as solvit to remove practical obstacles.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 12 september 2013. listening to the debate, i don't feel there's complete unanimity in the room. but this is not. it was a very serious subject, so allow me to take it a little easier. as president, i'm very glad that the water pistol was just a buzzword, and i think it's important that we learn that the internet is not a good place to transport food.
the next item is the debate on the report on the union's policy towards belarus (2013/2036 ((ini)) by mr justas vincas paleckis, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs.
the eastern partnership countries should be free to decide, without pressure, on their long-term strategy. their residents have the right to make democratic decisions. that is why i wish the people of armenia, men and women, to exercise their democratic rights and to have the opportunity to debate in parliament or to decide in a referendum what strategy they want for themselves in the long term. it is important for us to achieve our main objective at the vilnius summit: to ensure that the eastern partnership countries do not experience a cold war, but rather peaceful coexistence and partnership in the future. to that end, i wish you success and perseverance, mr. inspector, and all the negotiators.
in writing. i welcome the second report on the implementation of the eu's internal security strategy, in which i would like to stress the importance of combating organised crime, cybercrime, terrorism, violent extremism and corruption. the mutual exchange of information between europol and member states should be strengthened and the interconnection between terrorism and organised crime should be given increased attention. to this end, the setting up of a joint working group of union and national officials should also be considered. i find it unacceptable to investigate the financing of terrorism, especially the monitoring of financial transactions under the cover of charities, foundations. the european police college (cepol), as an autonomous agency, has an important role to play in coordinating the law enforcement capabilities of the member states and in providing training in internal security. the tragic events of recent years have brought to light the so-called lone perpetrators, against whom the development of an effective defence strategy will be one of the main challenges of internal security work.
on behalf of the ppe group. - my dear officer. i listened carefully to your anticipated reply and i am very pleased that the commission considers the european strategy on health and safety at work to be an important issue. i would like to inform you that we consider this a very important issue, so much so that we have already adopted a number of resolutions on this matter. most recently, in june, the commission president also pointed out that in the mid-term review of 2011, the commission had been explicitly asked to renew the strategy, which expires at the end of 2012, in good time. in fact, i could end here and say that our impression is that the commission has fallen asleep on this issue, because in 2013 it started consulting with the partners, and the commissioner could only inform us that very positive and interesting opinions have been received. but we haven't heard anything in the evaluation material, and we haven't heard anything about when there's going to be a strategy. and it's not by chance that this is important to us. of course, the treaty of rome makes work and health care an exclusive european competence. it's not an accident. in the social field, it is almost the only area, because human lives are at stake, because security is at stake and because competitiveness is a very important aspect of the european union's economy. and if that's the case, then you need transparency, you need predictability, you need planning for everybody, for the worker, for the entrepreneur, for the business. this kind of procrastination, delay, and sluggish progress in this matter - and the president is right - we have no idea why this is happening, and it has the opposite effect, uncertainty, impulsivity and, in that sense, serious dangers. they create dangers that really worry us. so, officer! why can't we just accept this strategy? what's the big reason you're not doing this? we look forward to your response.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to welcome back mr president and mr diamanduros, whom i would like to thank for his work on behalf of the s&d group. the european ombudsman has an important role to play in making the european union institutions more transparent and service-oriented. it is essential that the ombudsman be an impartial institution and that the office-holder be a person of integrity and authority. mr nikiforos diamanduros, who left us on 1 october after more than 10 years, was one such european ombudsman. last year, more than 22 000 european citizens turned to the ombudsman with various complaints, simply for information or to make a complaint. the complaints concerned, inter alia, denial of information, discrimination and cases of misuse of personal data. the ombudsman does his job well when he asks the competent offices to respect both the written rules and the unwritten ethical standards. the number of people who have contacted the ombudsman's office for information only has decreased over the past year. this shows that citizens found answers to their questions on the ombudsman's website. the report suggests that all eu institutions, and even members of parliament, should provide a direct link to the guide on their websites, thereby also helping the ombudsman's work. one of the most important areas of the ombudsman's work is to guarantee the protection of fundamental rights, including the integration of people with disabilities. the european union has acceded to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the european institutions must implement the provisions of the convention. the next ombudsman will be expected to take account of the european institutions' compliance with the convention, including the accessibility of websites, publications and access to information for the blind and partially sighted, and those with reading and comprehension difficulties. yesterday's freedom drive participants strongly reminded us that very little has been done to improve their situation, both at european and national level.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! my dearest marie-therese, i have to go. i congratulate the rapporteur and my colleagues on the committee on culture and education on the work they have done to produce this report. it is time to recognise the value of the cultural and creative sectors and their positive impact on the european economy, as they employ a significant number of european citizens. let's not forget that this sector is growing above average even during the economic crisis! the potential of the cultural and creative industries has been highlighted by the european parliament for years, and was confirmed by another marie-therese report in 2011. since then, the commission has developed a new strategy and made recommendations, which i welcome. however, i believe that the issue of funding remains a problem. but art is a risk. member states should facilitate access to adequate funding for the cultural and creative sectors. to this end, a favourable regulatory and tax framework should be established.
in writing. − on 28 may 2013, the last annual report of the european ombudsman, mr p. nikiforos diamanduros, was submitted to the committee on petitions. the report shows that the european ombudsman opened 465 cases last year on the basis of the complaints received. the number of complaints within his remit was 740, and the majority of the cases opened were closed by the european ombudsman within a year. the european parliament commended the outgoing ombudsman for the quality of his work and the rapporteur welcomed his efforts during his mandate.
in writing. − respect for high ethical and institutional standards is essential to build and maintain trust between european citizens and the european institutions. the european ombudsman has a key role to play in this. the european ombudsman has a major role to play in broadening and deepening institutional communication with citizens. in particular, access to information and data security are increasingly important societal needs. we have repeatedly praised the role of special reports initiated by the ombudsman in resolving certain issues critical to eu citizens, often conflicts across borders. we hope that the new ombudsman, who will be taking office shortly, will continue this positive tradition. we hope that the new ombudsman will not hesitate to remedy situations that violate the fundamental rights of national minorities and to take a strong stand against violations of environmental standards. in recent years, the practice of the committee on petitions has given us many examples of european union citizens who are not fully aware of their rights as citizens or only partially aware of them. it would be desirable for the new ombudsman's office to develop a more effective strategy than before to ensure that citizens who, due to their living conditions, low level of education or lack of wider language skills, are unable to keep up with changes in the world of law without active institutional support, are not disadvantaged by a lack of knowledge of their rights and institutional options.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate mr díaz de mera on his report and i welcome the introduction of important modifications to the regulation in question – for example with regard to the introduction, reintroduction and maintaining of visa requirements – and setting the objective of full visa reciprocity, to be pursued by the eu in its external relations. it is very important that in cases where notification is received that a third country is introducing visa requirements for the nationals of any member state, the eu countries should take steps together, implementing a community response and ensuring equal treatment for all eu citizens. on the other hand, the safeguard clause for emergency situations – as a last resort – introduces an important safety valve into the system, which enables member states to react to substantial and sudden changes of circumstances regarding public policy and/or internal security.
in writing. −the principle of equal pay for equal work is a fundamental eu principle (article 157 tfeu), and i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women also apply in the field of employment. equal pay for work of equal value for all is essential to halt the further growth of the gender pay gap and to reduce existing disparities.
in writing. − i welcome the cybersecurity strategy and the draft directive that tries to achieve a coherent and coordinated approach to the nis in the eu. cybercrime is now one of the top four threats to national security. this requires global partnership between governments, government agencies and the private sector, defining the responsibilities for private firms to guarantee their participation. the eu still has much work to do to overcome the differences in preparedness, security and strategic culture among the member states. one cyber-challenge i would like to point to is the growing danger of sophisticated threats such as cyberterrorism and cyberespionage where intelligence criminals use clouds from distant, bullet-proof countries. another important challenge is that international organised crime continues to shift its operational terrain into cyberspace where cybercrime radically alters the traditional structure of the organised crime groups. therefore, it should be a priority to expand not only ratification of the council of europeʼs convention on cybercrime to other countries outside the eu, but also to increase training, skills, awareness and education that can help boost the supply pool of cyberskills for the civilian population, in cooperation with the us and nato.
in writing. − the growing threat of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) attacks or disasters imposes increasingly serious protection tasks on states and international organisations, including bodies of the european union. the eu action plan, drawn up in 2009, was adopted by almost unanimous agreement by the member states. as a parliamentary opinion on the plan, i have repeatedly stressed that the issue of cbrn attacks should be examined primarily in the context of possible terrorist attacks and conflicts in crisis zones. the international convention banning the development, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons, which entered into force in 1997, has not yet been ratified by syria. we do not yet have reliable data on the volume of the stockpiled arsenal, nor on the number and location of possible warehouses, so their destruction would still face many obstacles today. it is in our common strategic interest to prevent the potential for misuse of hazardous substances. mandatory and international regulation and effective control of potential chemical weapons are needed to prevent materials that could be used as weapons of mass destruction from falling into the wrong hands. increased coordination between states and international organisations is also indispensable.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the european union still lacks a permanent military planning and implementation capacity that would enable the european union to respond effectively to international crises and would substantially enhance its role in international peacekeeping and conflict prevention. the report on eu military structures, which makes a comprehensive proposal for the establishment of a full-fledged eu operations command within the european external action service, is an important step towards achieving these objectives. this would reduce expenditure and the control exercised by the council and parliament in the long term. the operation command would not only contribute to the development of a common union behaviour, but would also maximise the benefits of civil-military coordination and allow for the pooling of certain functions. i support the use of a more structured approach to address the skills gap at pan-european level. especially in areas that support military power, like intelligence, strategic airlift.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal, which draws the commission's attention to the fact that it has still not adopted a new european strategy to promote health and safety at work, which is one of the most important areas of eu policies on employment and social affairs. member states have already recognised that, in addition to the individual safety and health of workers, the quality of the workplace is also very important. the commission of the european communities also highlighted in its 2007 communication that accidents at work, which often lead to disability, have significant costs beyond their human appeal. it is therefore in our common interest to develop a european strategy to help workers do their jobs in safety, health and better working conditions than they do today.
in writing. − the increasingly cross-border nature of employment in europe requires attention to strengthening legal regulation and protecting the rights of the workers concerned, as the different national regulations make workers vulnerable. there is a need to further strengthen harmonisation, as the scope of labour and social systems for the workers concerned does not end at the national border. it is in the common interest of the european union to resolve the situation of the workers concerned, as this is a matter of growth potential and must therefore be treated as a matter of priority in the recovery process.
in writing. − each year, more than 10,000 unaccompanied children arrive in the eu without knowing exactly where they are going. the desire to survive drives many of the children to the old continent, and some lose family members along the way. today i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the situation of unaccompanied children, which is the first parliamentary resolution on this subject, because it contains a number of forward-looking proposals and stresses its message with a critical and rigorous tone. i share the rapporteur's view that there is a lot to be done in this area, both by the community and by the individual member states. in order to ensure greater protection for children, the situation of these children should be assisted and improved from the time of their arrival until their fate is settled in the union in satisfactory circumstances or until they are returned to their country of origin. it should be emphasised that the best interests of the child are given due weight in the report, as a principle which should underpin all proceedings concerning unaccompanied children. i am confident that member states will take today's decision seriously and that the commission will be able to report on progress by the end of its action plan on the subject in 2014.
in writing. − minors victims of human trafficking must benefit from special arrangements in terms of identification, reception and protection, adapted to their needs and in line with the relevant international conventions. individualised life projects, as integrated policy tools, may be very useful for unaccompanied minors in helping them acquire the necessary skills and attributes to become independent, responsible and active in society. member states must define the responsibilities of each partner, in particular national and local authorities, welfare services, youth workers, families and legal representatives, in implementing and monitoring life projects and ensuring their coordination. national laws on legal guardianship need to be harmonised and coherent and effective protection systems established for asylum-seeker children or minors victims of trafficking. member states must cooperate with countries of origin in fostering public information and awareness-raising campaigns on the risks of child migration, in particular regarding the dangers of clandestine immigration, trafficking in human beings, as well as exploitation of minors and organised crime. member states must develop their asylum systems with a view to establishing a harmonised and child-sensitive institutional framework that takes into consideration the special needs and diverse difficulties of unaccompanied minors, especially victims of human trafficking.
in writing. − given that the creative and cultural sectors also make a major contribution to economic and social development and growth, it is very important to strengthen the dialogue with the actors in the sector and to develop a medium- and long-term policy agenda. it is particularly important to support and develop the creativity of young creators in the sector. this requires appropriate social and financial measures.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 october 2013.
the next item is the one-minute oral questions on important political issues (rule 150 of the rules of procedure).
my fellow members of parliament! some of my colleagues will quickly and loudly raise their voices in defiance of human dignity, if the political interest demands it. but i didn't hear any of them condemning the left-wing event that insulted the dignity of the hungarian prime minister of the people's party. the hungarian socialists, with the participation of the former prime minister, have cut down the statue of viktor orbán hungarocell in a performance. bajna's supporters beheaded the statue, kicked parts of it around the city, stabbed it with knives, and cut pieces of it. this is an extremely primitive, violent attitude, which is not in keeping with european politics and which should be condemned by all those who, in other cases, defend alleged violations by loudly proclaiming the right to human dignity. i ask my colleagues on the left and the liberal left, why don't you now distance yourself from such violent and extreme politicization on the left and its actors. that's as far as politics can go.
that concludes the agenda item.
the following is a summary of the report by ms papadopoulou antigoni entitled 'gendercide: missing women' [2012/2273 (ini) ] (a7-0245/2013).
in writing. – let me congratulate the rapporteur on her work on a difficult and sensitive issue. we know that gendercide is very deeply rooted in several countries, for socio-economic reasons. fighting gendercide and sex-selection therefore requires a huge improvement in awareness-raising campaigns and education programmes. it also calls for a genuine political will that translates into legal frameworks and concrete incentives. i fully agree with the report when it emphasises that the fight against sex-selection can only be comprehended in a broader perspective of womenʼs empowerment that ensures the equality of women and men before the law: from equal access to education to inheritance rights and equal pay. it is only by combining these different aspects, educational, economic and legal, that we will be able to fight gendercide effectively. finally i would like to insist on the fact that access to reproductive health services should not and cannot be limited on the grounds of sex-selection and gendercide. on the contrary, this calls for more responsible use of such services through better training and education. but limiting its access would only further endanger the lives of millions of women.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. she must be a woman. i congratulate my colleague, mr mazzoni, on his excellent report and i agree with his proposals. the commission has also proposed that the cohesion fund be used to finance the financing of the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund (erdf). the commission's proposal to make the rules on use more flexible, for example the macroeconomic conditionality system, is therefore extremely important. i therefore fully support the proposal by mrs mazzoni that, in the context of cohesion policy, public co-financing should not be counted against the structural deficit under the stability and growth pact. this is extremely important in a situation of such scarcity. i fully support it on behalf of both the new member states and the countries of the south.
the committee on agriculture has delivered its opinion. the committee on agriculture also supports the balanced report by linda mcavan, as it does not contain any measures that would lead to the cessation of tobacco production in europe. it does not put tobacco farmers in a disadvantaged position in impoverished regions where there is no other source of employment than tobacco farming. in europe, 400 000 farmers depend on tobacco for their livelihoods. it's the sole source of livelihood for 30,000 people in our country. in the committee on agriculture we proposed that the commission should set up a european tobacco prevention fund to combat smoking among young people. ban online commerce at eu level because it is extremely dangerous for young people and a hotbed of illegal trade. finally, we have to win the smokers over on this case. we must not make smokers feel guilty, but we must make them feel responsible, because without their cooperation we cannot reduce smoking. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. the committee on agriculture has analysed the situation in detail and it was particularly important for the cultivation of burley that the commissioner also mentioned and the report by linda mcavan included that the authorisation of sugar as an additive means that burley can be grown in european tobacco production. european tobacco producers are not at risk from this directive. it is another matter that the financing arrangements for the cap pose a much greater threat to farmers than this directive.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. first of all, let me draw attention to the efforts made by the hungarian government over the last three years to reduce smoking, with particular regard to the protection of young people. among the many measures, it is worth mentioning the law on the protection of non-smokers and the restriction on the sale of tobacco products, according to which cigarettes can only be bought in hungary at designated sales outlets, so-called traffics. the government's activities have been recognised by the world health organisation award to prime minister viktor orbán for his successful fight against smoking. in this context, i am pleased that the european commission has presented a draft directive which puts the interests of people - particularly the health of young people - above the interests of industry. let me note that janez potocnik, the commissioner responsible for the environment, did nothing to prevent the investment in the verespataki cyanide mine and to ban cyanide mining in the eu, where the risks to human life and environmental values were not considered, and sacrificed them on the altar of industrial interests!
in writing. − corruption does not know any borders and is present everywhere – in every country regardless of their economic development and in all levels of society. although surveys show that most of the eu member states rank among the countries perceived as least corrupt in the world, there is a lot to do within and outside our borders. it is difficult to shape the mentality of the whole of society, especially the older generations who sometimes do not even perceive corruption as being negative as this is a ‘normal܀ part of their everyday life. however, nearly one fifth of the worldʼs population is aged between 15 and 24. they are the future generation who have the potential to stop corruption both as citizens and as future leaders. the first public institution that young people experience is school – the place where their views, values and responsibilities are shaped. however, schools can only educate a society free of corruption if they are free of corruption themselves. transparency internationalʼs 2013 global corruption barometer shows that nearly one out of every five people worldwide paid bribes to education services during this year. this is a warning sign; we all need to stand up and fight corruption.
in writing. − the revision of the brussels i regulation last year brought about a significant improvement in international private law standards, but the scope of the revision process did not cover certain labour law issues. the committee on legal affairs therefore decided to draw up an own-initiative report on the rules of jurisdiction applicable in the field of labour law in order to consider the possibility of further amending the brussels i regulation. labour law is an area in which the european union has relatively little influence, but the increasing integration and cross-border nature of employment relationships has made it imperative to harmonise the provisions on employment disputes at community level. the aim of these recommendations is to provide more effective protection for workers and to preserve the legal traditions of the member states in the field of labour law.
in writing. − the treatment of smoking-related diseases imposes a significant additional cost on society. in the interests of public health and the long-term financiability of health care, it is particularly important to give greater emphasis to prevention and to make smoking less attractive, especially for younger age groups. at the same time, it should not be forgotten that hungary has a long tradition in both tobacco production and the manufacture of tobacco products, and therefore the industry is important for maintaining employment. taking all these factors into account, i was of the opinion that the menthol flavouring that is traditionally used should have an eight-year withdrawal period and that the thinned cigarette should continue to be available for purchase. however, i considered it important that electronic cigarettes above a certain nicotine content could only be placed on the market after being authorised as medicines.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the house of commons, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole house of commons during the votes in plenary. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, since the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, we also represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation may differ from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. − the unacceptable practice of systematically killing people belonging to a particular sex is rooted in traditional son preference, discrimination and stereotypes, gender inequality, as well as coercive government policies. gendercide is not only a terrible crime and a severe violation of human rights, but the gender imbalance that arises as a consequence affects long-term social stability, leading to frustration and violence, the rise of trafficking, sex slavery and rape cases. combating this awful practice demands a fundamental change in the mindset of affected populations, in their attitudes towards women and tackling harmful gender-based practices in general. the european union in its external relations must enforce respect for women܀s rights and promote the clear categorisation of gendercide as a crime. furthermore, the economic, educational and political empowerment of women is necessary, as well as the introduction of strict rules for clinics and hospitals in order to prevent sex selection.
in writing. − the global economic crisis has affected all member states severely, with particular disadvantages for certain regions. as a means of recovering from the crisis, several countries have been forced to take fiscal austerity measures in several sectors, with local and regional authorities still suffering the consequences. the european structural and investment funds play a very important role in promoting regional development effectively and serve as a good tool to strengthen territorial cohesion and to support the investments of local and regional authorities and to strengthen their financial stability. i believe it is important to create greater synergies between national, sub-national and european budgets.
in writing. – the national co-financing of eu funds has long been a subject for debate. strengthening the capacity of sub-national actors for the absorption of structural fund assets and increasing the flexibility is of utmost importance, especially given the outstanding role that structural funds play in employment and sustainable development, and consequently in social inclusion. lifting the budgetary constraints that the stability and growth pact may impose on national co-financing by its strict definition of structural deficits is a most progressive proposal and very important in cases of programmes promoting job creation, growth and social inclusion. it may also contribute to account being taken of the multi-dimensional and territorial aspects of poverty and to developing integrated multi-sector development programmes to target the most deprived micro-regions by engaging local communities and mobilising all available cff funds and other eu instruments, together with national assets.
madam president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr češková, on his report, which i fully support. my fellow members of the house of representatives! it has been said on several occasions that it is a good thing that the council representatives, represented by the presidency, are present in parliament when we discuss the council's final accounts. that goodwill may be welcome, but that goodwill is far from enough. this goodwill is far from enough, because if i want to sum up briefly and clearly what all my colleagues are trying to say in their own way, it is simply that the council, the european council, is not dealing properly with public money from the tax sources of the citizens of the union, the council's behaviour is irregular. the behaviour and conduct of the european council is unworthy, because if any of our fellow european citizens were to behave in this way with regard to the clearance of accounts of public funds entrusted to him by an authority of any member state, that authority would rightly ask the european citizen in question why he is not clearing the public funds entrusted to him. the european council, on the other hand, refers to alleged 'gentlemen's agreements' of decades ago, and who knows what, to avoid the european parliament, the eu institution that is supposed to control the use of public money, being able to do so. that is why i support to the fullest extent possible the proposal by mrs češková, that we refuse to accept the final report, the council's final report, and i hope that the interinstitutional debate will finally be replaced by the application of the rules of common sense and that we will succeed in solving this problem.
it has been rightly pointed out by several that in the field of scientific research, women are at a significant disadvantage, although they have the same talents as men. at the same time, there is another kind of discrimination within europe, mainly between the new post-communist member states and the old member states, between researchers and research opportunities in western european countries. i think that today in hungary, if a young woman or a young man dreams about it, and it's his mission, his vocation, to be involved in technological development, research, innovation, he can do two things. either he gives up his dream or he gives up his country because the opportunities, the resources, the resources for research, and the income conditions are so limited that he simply cannot make a living as a researcher in hungary. i would very much like the commission representative to give specific advice to hungarian researchers on what they can hope for. the title of our meeting today is the creation of a european research area by 2014. what will this bring to hungarian researchers? what hope do they have?
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask my colleague sógor in our common language whether this means that he disagrees with my previous statement that in hungary and other post-communist countries in eastern and central europe, researchers work in humiliating conditions, or he agrees with this but for some reason does not find it a problem because he thinks that this is part of the globalization process and we should accept this secondary situation.
mr president, the istanbul convention marks a key milestone towards improving the fight against domestic violence. it makes it clear that domestic violence is not a private matter. it is the responsibility of the state to prevent violence, protect victims and punish perpetrators. awareness-raising is important, but it is only by creating such a legislative framework, including close monitoring, that states will be able to effectively fight such violence. eu member states need to be at the forefront of the crisis and ratify the convention so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. we are aware that the steps towards ratification require adaption into national legislation, which may take time. however, i would like to hear from the council and the member states that this ratification process is a priority and that everything will be done to swiftly comply with its requirement. the eu and the council of europe must be able to send a strong message to other countries saying: ‘this is a fundamental issue and we are stepping up’. it is high time for concrete actions to follow words. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – mr president, the proper reply is that nobody is perfect. we make mistakes, and of course it was a serious mistake. we should be fair to our citizens. sometimes we do not do the right thing, so that is why i believe that we are responsible for finding the solution for them, because i strongly believe that every fifth woman in europe is affected by this issue. what we need is a real awareness campaign and real engagement and real political will. i am sure that when we make mistakes that we are capable of saying, that yes we can do it better. i hope that you will help in that.
the most likely place for someone to have their life forcibly taken away is on the open street, mostly around a bar. most likely perpetrator is a stranger or casual acquaintance, most likely a drinking buddy. this basic crime statistic correlation holds true when the victim is male. if the victim is a woman, the context changes so that the most likely place of the violent crime is her own home, and the most likely perpetrator of the violent crime is someone she loves or has loved: her partner, lover, partner, spouse or former partner, former spouse. these are not tragedies that strike out of the blue, but these deaths are preceded by long-term processes that often last for decades. processes that can and should be stopped. member states should therefore take the necessary measures to this end and ratify the istanbul convention on this subject, inter alia, as soon as possible.
in writing. – the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence has so far only been ratified by five countries and only two eu member states. the convention could contribute to the development of a comprehensive framework to protect women against all forms of violence, which is necessary to fulfil the same priority of the european union. the provisions of eu directive 2011/36 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings must also be fully transposed, in particular in strengthening the identification, protection and assistance to victims and with a special emphasis on children. member states must address all forms of violence against women, with special regard to roma women, and support victims of domestic violence by ensuring proper resources for related public services and by providing assistance also through mainstream services, such as health, employment and education.
blue-card question. – i really appreciated your concern for the rights of workers in the chinese-eu relationship and also your concern for the salaries of workers, and that we do not want dumping, but this has not worked out even in the context of the european union and the new member states. especially in post-communist member states, there is a kind of dumping, with very low salaries being paid by european union western investors and terrible conditions for workers, so how do you think there is any chance of realising what you suggested?
commissioner gucht was not very precise, because it is not chinese investments that need to be protected in europe, but european companies on the chinese market, since the european union is much more open to chinese investments than the other way around. many of my colleagues mentioned the obstacles to company formation, ownership or the fact that a foreign company cannot acquire a majority shareholding. they're all familiar in this house. this is why it is so important to place investments on a contractual basis, because this is primarily in the interests of european companies. the question is whether member states will continue to apply their separate passenger policy. i wonder if germany, france and other big member states will continue to pursue a separate passenger policy or if we can act together against china, because then we have a much stronger bargaining position.
whether you are strolling through beautiful budapest or another beautiful hungarian town, you will surely notice a sad thing. there are many, many windows down in commercial premises, windows in businesses that have gone bankrupt. small hungarian businesses. family lives, livelihoods, were destroyed along with them. why would you do that? because they couldn't compete with multinational chains and companies on the one hand, and on the other hand, mushroom-like far eastern businesses and companies that can flood into the country without restriction, selling low-quality and cheap goods. they couldn't compete because it's economically impossible to compete, and i don't have time to explain why in a minute, but i would ask the authorities to consider the interests of these bankrupt small businessmen when they discuss and decide on free trade agreements between the eu and the far east.
first of all, i would like to congratulate chairman harbour, the chairman of the imco committee, on his excellent work. everyone did so, and it is no accident that they are deserving of this recognition, because they produced a report with added value and also produced a report with such meticulous and professional precision that it is truly commendable. it has resolved a number of technical and harmonisation issues in this report. i would like to highlight three issues because of the shortness of time. the first, which the commissioner has already mentioned, is the question of harmonizing the limits. i think it is very appropriate that, in line with technological progress, we can tighten up these limits, both from the point of view of the environment and from the point of view of health. it is appropriate to do so, especially if we can adapt to a global threshold in this respect. i'm thinking of emissions, but also other limits. however, i think it is important to have controls on noise and speed, for example, either at local level or by introducing restrictive measures. the other thing i want to talk about is the importance of the safety clause. i would like to stress this in particular in the light of the fact that there is now sufficient legal basis for the withdrawal of unsafe watercraft, whether in terms of their value to property, their user value, human life or environmental protection. in particular, those which may, in general, endanger either the health or the safety of persons. i consider it important to introduce appropriate conformity assessment procedures, especially in view of the fact that the majority of private individuals purchase these watercraft from third countries, which should be covered by the directive in relation to post-production assessment. one last comment, mr president. i'm not going to say anything. it is very important to do this with due diligence, because the circle is very wide, both from the consumer side and from the producer side.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the so-called remit regulation, which aims to make wholesale energy trade transparent and gives acer a mandate to carry out union market surveillance, is of prime importance for the creation of the single market. acer's market surveillance activities fill an important regulatory gap, as cross-border trade has been boosted in parallel with the development of the single energy market. however, national authorities do not have sufficient information to identify market abuse in cross-border transactions. i would highlight two important areas of the legislation which contribute to the more transparent functioning of the single market. on the one hand, traders will have to report commercial transactions to the agency, so that acer and national authorities will have detailed information on commercial transactions that have not been made public. this will significantly increase the low level of transparency in the cee region. on the other hand, the regulation provides that only registered traders may engage in energy trading activities. the register should also be established in countries where no authorisation system is currently in place. my fellow members of parliament! it is essential for the transparency of international wholesale energy trade that the agency has sufficient resources to carry out its tasks with due diligence. since the cost savings to consumers of detecting a single market abuse exceed the annual operating costs of acer, we cannot allow acer to run at half speed because of budgetary problems.
mr president, i ask the house to forgive me for dealing with internal matters but there is one change in the epp voting list. on page 10, amendment 79, the first part should say ‘no’ instead of ‘yes’. i would like to ask colleagues to take note of that and am sorry to bother others with this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, as it is of the utmost importance that the three pillars single banking supervision, european resolution fund (mechanism) (in the event of bank failures) and a european deposit insurance scheme a stable banking union for the euro area countries be put into effect as soon as possible. the interinstitutional agreement before us is a milestone, as it stipulates that in the event of any major change affecting supervision, including the involvement of other institutions, the transparency and accountability of the institutions must be increased in an equivalent manner, which includes full right of inquiry and full powers in respect of appointments and the budgetary procedure. the interinstitutional agreement thus lays down the practical conditions for democratic accountability and oversight by the european parliament in the performance of the ecb's tasks. the agreement ensures strong parliamentary control over the exercise of the ecb's supervisory tasks through regular exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee, closed-door discussions with the chair of the same committee and better access to information, including non-classified parts of the minutes of the supervisory board. it shall also ensure full cooperation between the two institutions in the course of the investigations. finally, the draft interinstitutional agreement also provides for parliamentary scrutiny of the procedure for the election of the chair of the supervisory board.
in writing. − the european parliament has succeeded in securing an interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the ecb in the interest of democratic accountability, in addition to a regulation conferring specific tasks on the european central bank in relation to policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions. following the conclusion of the negotiations on the agreement, parliament voted on 12 september 2013 on the single supervisory mechanism regulation, which entrusts the ecb with the supervision of banks in the euro area and in member states wishing to participate in the mechanism. i am voting in favour of the formal adoption of the interinstitutional agreement as soon as possible, thereby ensuring transparency and strong parliamentary control in the exercise of the ecb's supervisory tasks through better access to information.
in writing. − as the person responsible for the final accounts of the european external action service, the european court of auditors and the european court of justice for 2012, i consider it important to express my dissatisfaction that no progress has been made on the council's discharge during the ep's 2009-2014 mandate. parliament's position is that it has the right and the power to grant the council discharge in the same way as it does for the other institutions. the council disagrees and refuses to participate in the hearings of the committee during the discharge procedure, does not reply to the written questions put by the european parliament and refuses the committee access to the documents necessary for the conduct of the final accounts procedure. year after year, the same sequence of events takes place and the final accounts procedure ends in vain, without any real discharge procedure for the council. this interinstitutional dispute, which is incomprehensible to european citizens, should be brought to an end, as this debate on procedural matters is damaging the credibility of both institutions and further weakens trust in the eu institutions. the rapporteur proposed to refuse to grant the council discharge in order to clarify the outstanding issues. i voted for mrs ceskova and i believe that the refusal to grant the discharge could help the two institutions to come to the negotiating table and reach a final agreement on the procedural questions that remain open.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, as it is important to stress in the context of the budgetary discharge that in a democratic society taxpayers and the public have the right to be informed about the use of public funds and citizens have the right to know how the taxes they pay are spent and how the political bodies use the powers conferred on them. the obstacles that had rightly been raised in the past in relation to the discharge before us, such as the council's explanations of the shortcomings in public procurement and the court's recommendations on the more rigorous design, coordination and implementation of public procurement procedures, were blocked, so all avenues were open before supporting the discharge.
in writing. − i supported this report because i believe that the measures it contains can greatly facilitate the mobility of our citizens. in order to have their qualifications recognised more quickly than before, professionals wishing to work in another eu country can apply for a european professional card, a virtual certificate of their qualifications, in their own country and in their mother tongue. the card is issued by the country of departure for short-term work abroad, but if the worker wants to settle in another country, the virtual document is issued by the host country. the directive also provides that healthcare professionals - doctors, nurses, pharmacists and childcare workers - who are subject to disciplinary or criminal proceedings and convictions in their own country are not allowed to practise their profession in another eu country. all member states shall be notified of the suspension or disciplinary action against the expert within three days. it is also important to emphasise that, in order to make the system more transparent, the revised rules require the commission to establish a public database of regulated professions. the data will come from the member states, which will have to justify why they regulate the individual professions.
in writing. − with regard to carbohydrate claims, the european commission has proposed detailed conditions of use which state that the claim can only be placed on foods containing predominantly complex carbohydrates, which are either low in sugars or contain only natural sugars (without added sugars). the regulation on nutrition and health claims made on foods does not provide for the possibility of attaching conditions of use to the use of a claim. in my opinion, the european commission has exceeded its authority in this matter. on the basis of the above arguments, the creation of ad hoc nutrient profiles for sugars in a particular claim would constitute a circumvention of the legal requirements of the food claims regulation. i voted in favour of the resolution of the european parliament against the creation of a nutrient profile for sugar and thus the circumvention of legislation.
in writing. − i supported the report as it states that nutritional and health claims must not be untrue, misleading or misleading. it also opposes the adoption of the draft amending commission regulation establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health, because it considers that the draft commission regulation is incompatible with the purpose and content of the basic act.
in writing. − the outstanding quality and quality control of european food and the protection of consumer health are key social policy interests and objectives. no legislative amendment may be permitted which would jeopardise the deterioration of the quality of foodstuffs or the safe control of their quality. the european commission's proposal contains these possibilities, which the european parliament must firmly oppose. the resolution also rejects the commission's proposal to amend legislation which would endanger the health of voters.
in writing. − i supported the report as it includes concerns expressed by veterinarians in various member states that they would no longer be able to perform their duties conscientiously if the draft regulation were adopted; and that already under the current control systems a significant number of animals and animal parts and organs are declared unfit for human consumption and that the number of uncontrolled, untested parts is expected to increase if the draft regulation is adopted. in this respect, i agree that it is not advisable to reduce the duties of official veterinarians and that it is essential that organs are routinely examined by an official veterinarian by incision and palpation and that appropriate sampling is carried out. in the light of the above, it can be stated that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of the basic act and therefore needs to be amended by this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − when it comes to debating issues related to china, we always need to pay special attention to the situation in tibet. in the last period there has been a significant economic development in the region. however, the chinese government prioritises fast-track economic development above cultural protection, and changes in chinese laws and regulations tend to decrease the protection of the tibetan language and culture. another worrying fact is the high rate of unemployment as a result of the relocation of nomads to new settlements. tibet’s nomadic lifestyle is one of the last examples in the world of sustainable pastoralism. for centuries, tibetan nomadic herders have made a sustainable living uniquely adapted to the harsh conditions of the tibetan plateau. now the re-settled nomads lose their land, cannot practice their traditional livelihoods and thus they become economically dependent on state aid. i therefore urge the eu officials negotiating the bilateral investment agreement with china to pay special attention to the situation of tibet and include in the text clauses that ensure the protection of the rights and interests of the tibetans as well as the sustainable economic development of the region.
in writing. − i welcome the proposal and vote in favour of the proposed measures to further strengthen and deepen the eu-taiwan trade and economic relations, given that bilateral trade between the eu and taiwan has increased twelvefold over the last twenty years, making it the eu's 7th largest trading partner. i believe that bilateral negotiations and structured dialogues would strengthen trade relations and create a mutually beneficial economic situation for both sides as a result of more effective cooperation. i believe that it is also very important for the further deepening of economic relations that the improvement of bilateral relations between china and taiwan should continue uninterrupted.
in writing. − as with other modes of transport, ensuring the highest level of safety for citizens travelling by air is of paramount importance. to this end, the eu's legislative institutions, including the european parliament, must do everything possible. the safety of passengers requires not only regular and comprehensive technical inspections of machinery, but also that the crew of an aeroplane is able to work under appropriate conditions and is sufficiently rested during the performance of their duties. parliament also took these objectives into account when adopting its resolution on the subject.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, honourable commissioner, dear colleagues, we are experiencing a most disappointing increase of anti-roma statements and, more formidably, anti-roma action throughout the european union. the incoherent, weak and, in many cases, fake inclusion programmes of the past 20 years have proved completely inadequate for fostering social inclusion. the obvious failures also directed the responsibility at roma communities themselves, despite several studies showing that in some cases less than 10 % of all roma inclusion assessed really reached the target group itself. in 2004 and 2007 roughly four million roma joined the eu, and there is a fairly predictable consequence of combining free movement with the enormous regional disparities between old and new member states: a massive influx of migration has begun. as soon as the long-established and wealthy democracy which was western europe became players rather than spectators, they proved to be no better than those they had been criticising, with their responses ranging from causing tension to evictions and often expulsions. roma inclusion became a massive economic burden that the actors throughout europe wished to get rid of by loading it on each other’s shoulders and pointing fingers at each other or, even worse, a political mace that parties would hit each other with, should their selfish and short-term interests so demand. in 2010, when the expulsion of the roma in france began, a massive campaign started, which demanded eu action against the french government, and thousands protested in the streets for human rights – rightly. why are they silent now, when the expulsion is continuing without interruption? was it minority rights they cared about or only ousting president sarkozy? i truly hope that the current anti-roma incidents will not pass without consequences and that, after two decades of stumbling from one case of crisis management to the next under successive governments, governments will, once and for all, understand that success demands a solution that is embraced through the entire continent and across the political divide. it demands a strategy whereby we could tackle the hopeless situation – the marginalisation of the most vulnerable communities, which is the root of the social tension and economic migration. we need this strategy to be very strong, because it needs to contribute to the cultural shift among the roma – from a cluster of closed, defensive and disparate communities to an open, self-aware and integrated european minority. for this we have to work together on all levels. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i cannot agree with you on this, as i have been working on roma integration for 20 years. during the last few years, especially when the hungarian government has stood very heavily behind this dossier, we have seen a lot of developments. i think in your constituencies everywhere in europe where roma migration is causing attention and fear, and also in those settlements which roma are not leaving but where they just live in horrible conditions in the post-communist situation of this era, i would not say that the eu is being hypocritical. what i would say is that, finally, something has been moved. the migration will only stop if these people feel free and safe and get jobs in these countries, because this is what is missing and this is how you can stop the migration.
on behalf of the s&d group. from time to time, new countries are brought to the spotlight for their treatment of roma. now sweden, where the police kept a list of all roma in the country, including children. it must be emphasised again and again that the priorities of the european roma integration strategy can only be achieved if there is a clear political commitment to tackle discrimination. particular attention should be paid to the double discrimination and increased vulnerability of roma women. the commission communication makes clear which areas have been improved. however, it does not examine whether the main vocational policy and budgetary decisions undermine the efforts to integrate roma. in hungary, for example, in parallel with its ambitious roma integration strategy, the government has lowered the age limit for compulsory schooling and the age limit for criminal liability, is expanding juvenile detention facilities with eu funds, and has abolished the institution of the independent minority ombudsman. we urgently need to have civil monitoring reports from each country alongside official reports to see and promote real political commitment, because it is really at the national and local levels that the success of the strategy depends. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
it's a two-card draw. i would like to ask you, as a practising politician, how much of a problem you see in the fact that, as is well known, a significant part of the money earmarked for roma integration ends up in the pockets of corrupt politicians or corrupt roma leaders who are in collusion with corrupt politicians, instead of the money going to the pockets of the so-called small people or to the actual uplift of roma people who want to be integrated. what is your experience with this? and how can we act against this phenomenon, namely corruption? earlier, ms járóka, who has a lot of experience, calculated that about 10% of the amount actually goes to the recipients. what is your calculation in this regard?
that's a two-card answer. i don't want to make any calculations about this. we've said many times that it's very important to have data on exactly how these resources are targeted, how they're getting to the people who need them most. by the way, it was in hungary, and it was the previous government that started the kind of approach that brought about such a territorial new perspective. we said that if we select the smallest regions where poverty is concentrated, based on all sorts of indicators, there is a good chance that if we manage to spend european union funds in these regions, there is a good chance that we can actually help the poorest roma in a large proportion. i don't think there's any more to this conversation. it's worth continuing this conversation about how to get to really target those who need it most.
in greece, members of the golden dawn have been harassing and intimidating immigrants. and finally, after a murder, the police took a firm stand against them. the italian integration minister, who is of congolese origin but has lived in italy for 18 years, is constantly attacked with racist comments. the incitement of jobbik in hungary against roma and jews has already led to dramatic consequences. according to a hungarian court, roma who took a stick against jobbik guards carried out incitement against the community, that is, a hate crime. another says it's just an innocent statement that a man from the far right said he would put someone who insulted our symbols back in a cattle car. there is a growing xenophobia and intolerance across europe, and in parallel, support for extremist parties in many countries. we know from history that the path to violence begins with hate speech. it is our shared responsibility to ensure that this knowledge is not forgotten. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
it's a two-card draw. my dear king of gooch! on october 23, 2006, the government of which you were a member as a minister, shot people in budapest, injured hundreds, and drove them into the crowd. do you not feel that this is an extreme attitude? or do you think the victims were extremists and deserved to be treated like this? how do you assess the actions of your government in terms of extremism, specifically in this case?
that's a two-card answer. in 2006, it was members of extremist paramilitary groups supported by jobbik who carried out a highly aggressive attack on the tv building in budapest, where many more police officers were injured than those you are mentioning here. i think they've turned this whole story into a legend without looking at the bottom of what happened. by the way, there is also an interpretation that this was actually an attempt to overthrow the government at the time, with the strong involvement of fidesz and jobbik.
madam president, what happened in greece two weeks ago should be a strong wake-up call. although we often refer to the fundamental values on which the union is founded, i sometimes have the feeling that we have forgotten their true meaning. words carry weight, especially when they come from elected representatives. hateful speeches can ultimately result in tragedies. it is our duty – the duty of the european union and of each and every member state – to remind those who threaten the cohesion of our societies that we are bound by these values. it is the duty of the government of each member state to promptly condemn hateful speeches, provocation or violence that sometimes remains unanswered. no part of the population should be singled out or used as a scapegoat, because the slightest concession to our shared values is already a defeat for the union and for european democracy. extremists grow and thrive on crises and social distress – we know that. so beyond condemning all forms of extremism, our task is firstly to deal with the roots of this growing problem by reorienting europe in a fairer way and strengthening the european social model.
it's a two-card draw. i fully agreed with my colleague sógor and i would like to ask if we agree to investigate these gross violations, whether they are cia prisons installed by the us, prisma or other violations. national governments have a big role to play, and i agree with my colleague sógor that our own country, the hungarian government, has a big role to play in the thorough investigation and condemnation of the snowden case and the allegations about the cia prisons.
i have received four motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 115(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 october 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the following point is attached to the commission statement on the union's migration policy in the mediterranean [2013/2827 ((rsp) ].
colleagues, this is a very difficult issue, but despite all the difficulties and feelings, i would ask you to keep to the speaking time.
blue-card question. – yes, you asked what these refugees are going to do, given that there is 40 % unemployment in italy. i come from a country which has so far not received a large amount of refugees, so let me ask you, what are your experiences so far with the refugees? what do they do now? what kind of jobs do they have, or do they have no jobs? what kind of difficulties does this situation cause in your country? so that we in hungary understand the situation. thank you so much for answering this question.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! after last week's lampedusa disaster, i believe that every member of the european parliament will have an obligation to support the report on the creation of a european border control system, known as eurosur, when it is voted on thursday. tomorrow i will also vote in favour of the need to create a community border control system coordinated by frontex in the future. the aim of the scheme to strengthen eu border surveillance and better link member states' systems, which is planned to start on 2 december 2013, is threefold. eurosur aims to (1) reduce the number of deaths of illegal immigrants, (2) reduce the number of illegal immigrants in the future, and (3) strengthen the internal security of the union by participating in the fight against cross-border crime. i hope that the launch of eurosur will (1) bring together the systems and mechanisms of the member states for border control, (2) improve the awareness of the authorities of each member state of their external borders and (3) reverse the trend of the annual increase in the number of lives lost at sea.
on behalf of the ni group. as a lawyer, i strongly believe that violations of the law must have legal consequences. it seems that there are types of infringements against europe and against eu citizens, businesses and companies that consistently have no legal consequences. i would like to refer, for example, to the echelon report, which was issued by the european parliament, the european union, long before the events of september 11, 2001, on the mass surveillance carried out by the united states, among other things, against european citizens. did there be any legal consequences? i know nothing of the world, but i'm sure you'll correct me if i'm wrong. for ten years this parliament has been dealing with the mass torture at guantanamo and the fact that political prisoners were brought to the european union by secret means, in collaboration with the european governments, and that they were tortured in practice. is there any legal consequence? it's not a big deal. edward snowden risked his life to leak it, revealing that, among other things, by violating the swift protocol, america is illegally obtaining the most trusted banking and financial information of european union citizens. all indications are that there will be no legal consequences. we've known about these things for over a quarter of a year. she must be a woman. what concrete steps does the european union intend to take to establish the facts and apply the legal consequences?
in writing. – i regret to hear that the suspension of the eu-us tftp agreement is on the agenda based on media allegations accusing the nsa of tapping into financial data from the swift database. as a result of the nsa surveillance i understand that it is very easy to lose our trust in our transatlantic ally; however, we should not forget the significant intelligence cooperation that has been beneficial for both the us and the eu in the fight against terrorism. furthermore, we managed to track and reveal lots of terrorist cells in order to avoid massive killings of civilians executed by suicidal terrorists. it is not the eu parliament’s task to decide whether there has been a breach of agreement but the commission’s. therefore, we should wait until the commission gathers enough information. taking into account the statements given by the representatives of europol and swift, there has been no indication or evidence that the us has breached the tftp agreement. therefore i am against the suspension of the agreement as it is unquestionably good for the eu. we only need to make sure that there is mutual information-sharing between the two allies and that the us continues to safeguard our citizens’ security and privacy.
in writing. the exchange of information between police forces in the member states is the main tool in the fight against crossborder crime. the 2008 prüm decision aims to do so, but it was drawn up at a time when only member states could decide on this. the resolution has since been devoid of democratic control. parliament has not been given the powers it was given in the lisbon treaty, despite only one year left to implement it. i would also urge the commission to put its proposal on the table as soon as possible so that the present parliament can do its job as a co-legislator. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we consider it of paramount importance that law enforcement personnel continue to receive high-quality training, as without this there is no good law enforcement. as has been said on many occasions, the citizens' committee of the parliament considers the independence of the institution important and does not support its merger with europol. that's the way the council thinks. the committee's merger proposal was effectively rejected. i therefore ask the commissioner not to wait any longer and to ask the services to draw up a proposal which, while maintaining its independence, will provide cepol with the necessary financial framework for its future relocation.
mr president, caste-based discrimination remains a striking reality for over 260 million people in the world. it is one of the most widespread violations of fundamental human rights. among these victims of social exclusion, women and girls are particularly vulnerable and face multiple forms of discrimination and violence, including sexual abuse. children are also at high risk of being sold or sexually exploited. despite some legislation enacted by the indian and nepalese authorities, the reality remains harsh for the dalits and the true scope of the new legislative framework remains uncertain. specific guidelines have been published by the un on the effective elimination of discrimination related to work and descent. i would like to hear from the eeas how the eu can effectively push for that implementation. i would also like to underline that this is not only a matter for south asian countries. for example, many female dalits are employed in work that is basically modern slavery, and several reports have pointed out that some of the factories employing them produce garments for western companies. this is something we cannot allow.
the next item is the report of the committee on petitions on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2012 (2013/2013 (ini)) (a7-0299/2013) drawn up on behalf of the committee on petitions by mr mcmillan-scott edward.
i would mention that the plenary debate is not exactly the same as the debate in committee.
many submissions indicate that citizens want a broader eu mandate in the area of fundamental rights or environmental protection. it is difficult to explain why the european union does not consider it an attack on fundamental rights when some member states deprive their citizens of their acquired rights by retroactive laws, as happened in the case of hungarian service pensioners and disabled pensioners, or why the european commission is silent when cyanide mining technology is about to be used in verespatak, romania. it is unacceptable that the commission should be slow to implement or not implement at all the decisions taken in the committee on petitions. we have been waiting since march for the european commission to take action on the case of hungarian pensioners who have been deprived of their pension rights. seven months have passed, the european commission waited until july to send its letter to budapest, and there has been no response since. in 2010, the european parliament called on the european commission to initiate legislation to ban cyanide technology. this request has not been met to date, and the date for the opening of the verespataki mine is approaching dangerously.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 10 october 2013.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr todorov panayotov vladko on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety entitled 'portable batteries and accumulators containing cadmium' (com (((2012) 0136 - c7-0087/2012 - 2012/0066 ((cod)) (a7-0131/2013)).
i'm closing this debate. the vote will be held on thursday 10 october 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. − i welcome the establishment of eurosur, which will become fully operational from december 2014 and will assist the competent authorities of the member states to carry out border surveillance activities in a more efficient manner. it is a vital step towards stopping illegal immigration in a democratic way with respect for the principle of freedom of movement. eurosur will also contribute to protecting and saving the lives of migrants – a positive outcome of improvement in the surveillance system – and will help to prevent tragic events such as the recent lampedusa boat disaster. another positive effect will be to increase internal security by helping to prevent cross-border crimes, a field in which the national coordination centres for border surveillance will have a significant role.
in writing. − i am sorry that the epp did not prepare a separate motion for resolution on this issue, which is highly sensitive and controversial in both professional and political terms. it might have been better to have joined with the ecr group on its motion, which advocates respect for human rights and the rule of law but, at the same time, is free of the extreme, exaggerated and unsubstantiated claims of the left-wing motion for resolution. unfortunately, as so often in recent years, we see how internal security issues become the tool of left-liberal political campaigns and propaganda. the horrific and tragic attack in kenya has shaken the world. to prevent such tragic attacks we have to acknowledge that certain aspects of law-enforcement work, by their nature, involve classified information – which cannot be shared with the european parliament without serious safety risks. there is no country free of the threat of terrorism. therefore, guaranteeing the security of european citizens is an inalienable, fundamental right, next to the right to privacy.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s initiative on examining the current cross-border law-enforcement information instruments and tools in the eu. it is unquestionable that we need a common, harmonised approach in order to track and prevent criminal activities more efficiently, and law-enforcement data sharing among the member states is therefore one of the key solutions for achieving this ambitious goal. i support full implementation by all member states, and at the earliest possible date, of the prüm decision, which concerns the automatic exchange of biometric and vehicle-registration data. i would also urge the commission to come forward with proposals for bringing the swedish initiative under the legal framework of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − caste is the very negation of the human-rights principles of equality and non-discrimination. it condemns individuals from birth, and their communities, to exploitation, violence, social exclusion and segregation – such is the judgment of the un high commissioner for human rights. caste-based discrimination is a social phenomenon affecting approximately 260 million people worldwide, and not only in those countries where a caste-based social system is traditional. women and girls affected by it are particularly vulnerable to sexual violence, prostitution, trafficking, domestic violence and punitive violence when they seek justice. furthermore, child labour is abundant in caste-based communities, in which children from the ‘lower’ castes suffer high levels of illiteracy. measures should be taken at national and international level to increase protection for victims of caste-based discrimination, to tackle impunity and to provide access to justice. furthermore, international cooperation should be fostered and innovative strategies should be developed based on international conventions and framework documents such as the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the convention on the rights of the child, or the draft un principles and guidelines for the effective elimination of discrimination based on work and descent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report of the committee on petitions on the year 2012, its achievements and objectives, as it is clear that the committee was also asked to consider cases last year which rightly concern citizens. the grouping and processing of cases clearly underpins the role of the committee in the enforcement of democratic principles. the numerous fact-finding visits and public hearings are an expected obligation towards citizens, who thus feel directly cared for and concerned about their own affairs. for this reason and with this encouragement, i also support the extension of the committee's powers and procedures.
in writing. − the committee on petitions offers public assistance to eu citizens who have been affected by a breach of rights or a loss of rights in their own country. however, citizens' complaints also highlight certain weaknesses in the eu's public administration system, such as competency gaps. the committee receives a number of complaints which can only indirectly be the subject of eu standards, such as the situation of minorities. a constant source of frustration for petitioners is that the committee does not have decision-making powers to resolve, for example, the minority dilemma. it may, at the very most, decide that the european commission, which has the power to take a decision, may not close the case in time. the committee on petitions, for example, has the lion's share in putting on the agenda and evaluating the complaint which, in the context of the slovak citizenship law, which severely discriminates against the hungarian minority in the upper peninsula, has highlighted the relativisation of fundamental rights by some member states. legal solutions that amount to a serious breach of fundamental rights applicable to the whole of the union cannot go unanswered by the eu institutions, since trust in public institutions is one of the most important indicators of democracy.
in my view, the fight against climate change can only be successful on a global scale. if the european union unilaterally commits to an ambitious emission reduction target, while other developed countries and large emitters do not commit to similarly ambitious targets, this could be detrimental to the continent in several ways. first, it does not create a comprehensive and legally binding global convention in which each party undertakes to meet its own capabilities. on the other hand, the unequal situation could put the eu at a significant competitive disadvantage, further increasing european energy prices. at the 2009 copenhagen climate summit, the eu made the only ambitious commitment among developed countries, which led to the eu bearing the brunt of the burden alone during the first commitment period of the kyoto protocol, putting its member states at a disadvantage, and unfortunately this situation was also carried over to the second commitment period. it is therefore essential to avoid a similar situation in the context of the new global agreement. therefore, as a hungarian representative, i support the eu making an appropriate commitment under the unfccc, both for the pre-2020 ambition review and for the post-2020 targets, but only if all developed countries and major emitters make a similarly ambitious commitment.
my fellow members of parliament! 2013 will be the european year of citizens, and 2014 will see the start of the commemorations marking the centenary of the first great fire. in the light of these two events, i would like to find partners who think it would be appropriate to establish a day of remembrance for soldiers who have been left behind or who have been killed on the battlefield. i therefore appeal to european civil society organisations, my fellow members of parliament, individuals and all the institutions of the european union to join us in establishing a worldwide day of remembrance for the fallen. i propose that this start date should be 11 november 2014, after a year of preparation and based on a broad consensus. i hope that a hundred years from now, the commemoration of this date will not offend the feelings of past winners and losers, or religious denominations, or individual nations. the initiative does not seek to compete with national heroes' days or similarly named events or commemorations of this nature. i'm asking you to support this idea.
mr president, let me start by congratulating the rapporteur, edite estrela, on this very comprehensive and balanced approach towards sexual rights and reproductive health. this report is crucial to reaffirming the position of the eu in terms of non-discriminatory access to srhr within and outside the european union. such access is fundamental to achieving women’s empowerment and sustainable development, as well as fighting against sexually-transmitted diseases. it therefore constitutes an integral part of human rights and health rights and should not be restricted on the basis of budgetary grounds. let me stress that this report does not go against the freedom of conscience or belief. on the contrary, it states that women have an inalienable right to choose and to freely decide for themselves and their bodies; that women and men should have easy and free access to sexual education, medical support, prevention, contraception, the morning-after pill and abortion; and that medical treatment and support should be affordable for all women and men whatever their ages, origins or social status. i hope that all members will keep this in mind when voting tomorrow.
creating a smart, strong and innovative europe requires a higher level of knowledge and skills. an education system that develops creativity, initiative and entrepreneurship, and fosters transversal skills, thereby helping students to be problem-solvers and flexible, is needed. higher education cannot be the privilege of the chosen few, it must be made available to all. preventing early school leaving and introducing high-quality early learning and development programmes to prevent early school leaving and ensure success in school. tailor-made support and mentoring should be provided during the secondary school years to students with different educational and educational needs, and in particular to members of vulnerable social groups. young people in higher education should be offered scholarships and job opportunities, student loans with favourable conditions and the accessibility of the erasmus programme for disadvantaged students should be promoted. teachers should be prepared to make the acquisition of skills and competences a primary objective, to provide tailor-made teaching methods for different learners, to be familiar with different cultures and to adapt the curriculum to the communication and learning habits of learners. i ask the european commission to verify that member states have taken the necessary measures to reform their education systems to achieve these objectives.
the eu is facing the deepest crisis in its history, with young europeans as the main victims. the economic downturn has dramatically reduced the eu's competitiveness. the best measure of this is that while japan has 1,200, the us has 350, the eu of 28 has only 30 patents per million people. if we don't put more emphasis on education, research and development, human resource development in the future, we will be left behind in global competition. the only chance for europe to renew itself and emerge from the crisis is through quality education, competitive knowledge, research and development and the creation of more jobs. we must create a europe where young people, whether they come from farms, towns, townhouses or villas, have the chance to learn and to fulfil themselves. every young person in europe must have the opportunity to study, work and live at a european level, according to his or her abilities. i fully agree with my colleague nevedalova that we need to transform the european education system to reflect as much as possible the needs of the labour market. if we want to build a successful eu and a successful hungary, we cannot lose a single talented young person. we must create opportunities for all young people to do more than their parents, regardless of their social background. this is why we need to launch talent-building movements and talent colleges in secondary schools and universities across europe, but especially in the poorest member states of the union.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. − as the rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to summarise our main observations and priorities in a few sentences. we regret first of all that the 2014 budget is about 6% smaller than the previous year, but we welcome that despite the cuts, we can see an increase of about 3% in the areas of competitiveness, growth and employment. we consider it important to have the multiannual budgetary framework as soon as possible, as this is also necessary for the implementation of the 2020 strategy. and we welcome the fact that the youth employment initiative is in the money. welcome to front loading, so the schedule is focused on the first time. and we call on member states to use this money efficiently and quickly. we think the foundation of globalization is important, although we feel the upper limit is a little narrow. at the same time, we would also emphasise the information centres for the appropriate support of migrant and posted workers. the employee participation project, the social brand pilot project, and the disability network. these would be the main priorities, plus increased support for the social fund and the fund for the poor.
i, as the socialist shadow rapporteur, would like to comment on the hohlmeier report. thank you to mrs. hohlmeier and george lyon for their cooperation. with regard to the other institutions, we have sought efficiency while maintaining excellence. with regard to the foreign service, it's important to note that some of the people who work here are working in increasingly unsafe conditions. the budgetary resources necessary to provide security must be created. as far as the european parliament is concerned, we have managed to keep costs, like the other institutions, at the level of inflation. here, the budgetary challenge was the extra costs associated with the election year, the extra costs associated with the croatian enlargement and the implementation of the lisbon treaty, i.e. the creation of conditions for monitoring. we have managed to preserve the political character of the european parliament and to maintain budgetary discipline. thank you, my fellow congressmen, for the opportunity to work together.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection − as the person responsible for the opinion of the imco committee, i would like to say that i am pleased that this proposal has been made, that this opinion has been made, that this report has been made, because it conveys stability and predictability to the citizens of the european union. i also thought it was important that we had clearly defined the tasks and the possibilities from the very beginning. he therefore thanks the rapporteurs for their excellent coordination and professionalism. i am also pleased that the proposals made in the imco committee have been supported in the budget committee and i hope in the plenary. i think they've been well-thought out and properly prepared. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to three priorities. the first is the importance of the single market forum, which supports stakeholder involvement as in previous years. i would like to highlight my own pilot project proposal, 'your europe travel', in which citizens are much better able to get answers to questions and concerns that concern them through a mobile application. i think it's important to support consumer protection and customs programs.
in writing − the preferential tariff treatment provided for in regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 does not apply, inter alia, to wine. pursuant to that regulation, wine is imported from all the western balkan countries under a global tariff quota, fixing the quantities of wine that may be imported free of duty or at a lower rate of duty. i voted in favour of this report because i too believe that the proposed regulation is based on a reasonable approach aimed at creating a level playing field for eu imports of wine from all western balkan countries.
written − i supported the report because i think that the information on dna tests should also be more strictly regulated in order to give patients access to the necessary information. i believe that genetic testing should be done only after proper information has been given, as it can have dramatic consequences for insurers and workers. not least, they may carry psychological risks. we need to think things through so that the patient can make a decision based on the most information available.
- many of the so-called diseases of civilization are due to the food industry, environmental damage, inadequate living conditions. in a governmental position, we would take all possible measures to improve the mental and physical health of our citizens. however, it is also essential to ensure and improve the quality of medical diagnostics. this report deals with the review of the directive on so-called in vitro diagnostic medical devices (e.g. blood glucose monitors, hiv tests, dna tests). the current directive does not ensure that in vitro diagnostic medical devices of inferior quality are not placed on the market. it is important that the system of market surveillance be strengthened. unannounced inspections by companies will be mandatory. in addition, the commission proposes the establishment of a network of european reference laboratories. the report is about improving health care, so i voted for it.
in writing − unfortunately, too many dangerous medical devices, such as hip replacements, have been implanted in the eu recently. i believe that the proposal to allow member state authorities to exercise more rigorous control over companies carrying out pre-market testing of medical devices will also significantly improve patient safety across europe, and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing − much less medical equipment would be needed in our country if decent government action could provide normal living, working and housing conditions for virtually all of our fellow citizens who want to work. unfortunately, i only see this aspiration in words, but in action, the opposite is true. that report addresses the commission proposal to review the current regulatory framework for medical devices. the rapporteur believes that the weakness of the proposal is that the structure of the text should better reflect the logical structure of the life cycle of the devices. it also stresses the lack of transparency, calls for the committee on the evaluation of medical devices (acmd) and for clear regulation of single-use and reusable labels. technically, with the amendments, the proposal is acceptable and represents an improvement on the current situation, so i supported it.
written − it is shocking that the commission's impact assessment shows that in 2009, more than 90% of vessels flying the flag of eu member states were dismantled in humiliating ways outside the oecd countries, mainly in india, pakistan and bangladesh, with significant environmental and health impacts. however, the ratification and entry into force of the international convention on the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships, the so-called hong kong convention, to remedy the situation, will take many years. although hungary, as a country with no maritime connection, is not directly concerned by this issue, i consider it important that, before the convention applies, the union should do its utmost to curb this harmful practice in the case of the decommissioning of ships of both union and non-union origin. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the first reading agreement.
written in english: ships also age, so they need to be dismantled, and this is mostly done in asia today with essentially medieval-style methods. besides, it's good for the boat owners. the point of the report is that this activity could be carried out in europe, by analogy with car wrecking, in qualified ship wreckers. the environmental pollution would also be eliminated, and many jobs would be created, obviously more in the coastal member states. knowing the policy of our current government to reduce employment, which forces domestic workers abroad, new jobs are also created for hungarians, so overall, i voted for the report.
in writing, the aim of this proposal is to regulate the harmonisation and provision of population data in the member states. this includes the establishment of a common framework for the regular production of union statistics, governing the collection, processing and transmission of statistical data on population and key events. i voted in favour of the recommendations contained in the report, since they concern mainly the definition of concepts and new rules on implementation. i believe that the concern of some regions that the collection of population data by place of usual residence would be too costly (article 2 (2d) (i) and (ii) can finally be overcome, since article 3.1 already allows for the 'best approximation' possible.
in writing. − as the economic and social policies of the eu continue to become more and more complex, there is a growing need for reliable statistical data on the trends and dynamics of european demography. the accuracy and substantiation of such data define a wide range of eu measures. the decision-making procedure of the union itself relies on the highest possible quality demographical data, but they are also an essential indicator for measuring the sustainability of public finances. time series publications by national statistical offices and eurostat – for example on life expectancy, fertility rates and age dependency ratios – are a crucial instrument in adjusting social inclusion and development policies as well as in monitoring the achievements of all strategies aimed at social inclusion and cohesion. the precise and clear definition of such basic concepts as ‘nationalʼ or ‘regionalʼ is very timely therefore, and so this initiative is to be welcomed.
written - we rely on statistics in a certain way, but whether we like it or not, the governments in power at the moment in the eu would have them compiled anyway, using methods of their own choosing. in comparison, the standardisation of the methodology and thus the comparability of the data obtained is certainly an advance. data protection concerns are reduced because personal data are collected by other methods. regional data collection can also be a step forward depending on the region, so overall i found the report to be supportive.
in writing. − one of the most grievous ways in which the sexual and reproductive health and rights of women is violated is forced sterilisation. in several member states of the european union however, court judgments have proven that roma women have been subjected to this impermissible violation of human rights, with the aim of reducing the birth rate in roma communities which was deemed ‘high and unhealthyʼ. despite the number of cases that were made public, officially registered and which ended with final court judgments in favour of the victims, suitable compensation and official apologies are in most cases still pending. the member states concerned must execute the judgments therefore and abide by their instructions with immediate effect by establishing a proper mechanism – if necessary – that ensures women whose reproductive capacities were destroyed without their consent receive suitable compensation. it is also essential that member states investigate without delay the extreme human rights abuses against roma women, penalise the perpetrators and ensure that all victims are identified and provided with redress.
in writing. − i would like to welcome this report highlighting the role of local authorities and civil society in sustainable development outside the eu. the assertion of the principles and priorities of the busan conference in the post-2015 development agenda is a positive step towards strengthening the ‘democratic ownershipʼ of development policy. the strong focus on involving non-governmental actors and the commissionʼs proposal for drafting road maps for engagement with civil society organisations are also to be welcomed, but the eu should place proper emphasis on the development of a strong monitoring mechanism to follow the flow and utilisation of funds, and all parties implementing programmes that use eu funds must act in an accountable and transparent manner. furthermore, the complementarity between the thematic and geographic programmes must also be significantly improved to avoid implementation gaps in development projects.
in writing. − in order to create a strong and innovative europe and to promote social inclusion, member states must increase the level of their investments in quality education, with the aim of preparing students for the ever-changing needs of the labour market and helping them acquire the cross-cutting skills that are most sought after in the modern labour market. member states must furthermore pursue the development of inclusive and integrated education systems, with highly qualified teachers and trainers, innovative learning methods, high-quality infrastructure and facilities, and high labour-market relevance, as well as pathways to further education and training. also, in order to fulfil the europe 2020 objective on reducing early school leaving, early childhood education, development and care programmes must be launched which are accessible to all and focus on the entire period of early childhood (from birth to the age of six), providing extra-curricular activities and engaging parents and well-established local ngos in their implementation and monitoring.
writing. i gave a long talk at a conference abroad, in which i explained in detail how the current concepts of education are fundamentally wrong, or rather, deliberately corrupt. the world is creating a gray, dumbed-down, manipulable mass of people, and fundamental changes are needed. the report shows that in march this year, the unemployment rate for people under 25 reached 23.5% in the union. meanwhile, over 2 million unfilled jobs were reported during the same period because labour market demands were not in line with the training opportunities offered by educational institutions. there is an urgent need for individuals with skills in the real subjects (science, technology, engineering and mathematics). there is a particularly strong contrast between the idea of the dream job for students and the demand for skilled and well-educated employees on the labour market. the report scratches the surface of the problems, reveals a little of the problems, so it's more than nothing, which is why i voted for it.
written − in the current difficult economic climate, unemployment is one of the greatest challenges facing europe. in the fight against unemployment, we cannot ignore the demographic changes taking place in the union, the ageing of the population, the outflow of human capital, and i believe that young people must be treated as a group of high priority in the union's social vision. education is an essential factor for innovation and economic growth in the long term. hungary has already recognised that young people have enormous potential and play a vital role in achieving its employment goals. we cannot afford to lose future generations. in our country, a process has already begun that focuses on young people and aims to help tackle unemployment by developing skills and abilities.
writing − we know the balkan countries relatively well, thanks to the storms of our history, so we have little faith that centuries-old resentments will change overnight. in some places, tribal structures have been preserved. the commission considers the promotion of the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime to be a priority in the western balkan countries and turkey, and to this end the european union provides financial assistance to candidate and potential candidate countries through the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa), which replaced the tpa, phare and cards programmes in 2007. the report is incredibly restrained, but it is, in essence, a real situation, where it regrets that there is no strong political support in most of the candidate and potential candidate countries for the fight against corruption and organised crime, or for the introduction of effective reforms in relation to independent judiciaries. the cost is not high, so try to integrate, the best way to learn is through experience.
in writing − safe healthcare is in everyone's interest, as it helps to improve our quality of life. in this sector, adverse events can have very serious consequences, although up to 30-40% of them could be prevented. in the european union, healthcare-associated infections affect an average of 5% of patients in hospital each year, or 3.2 million people, of which 20% could be reduced by prevention. preventing adverse events is not just a matter of individual concern, as the damage suffered by patients also places a great burden on society. i consider it important that the european union should help strengthen safe healthcare by using as many instruments as possible - scientific research, education, financial framework - and i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
− patient safety is above all about improving quality of life. the burden on society of harm to patients caused by adverse events in healthcare is also heavy, and is even greater during the economic crisis. i supported the report as it encourages member states to take measures to raise awareness among citizens about patient safety and the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections, to take measures to educate and train healthcare workers, patients and their carers, to take cross-border measures and to promote research on patient safety and healthcare-associated infections. i personally consider this important, as patient safety and, in particular, the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections must be at the top of the political agenda of the european union, as well as at national, regional and local level.
written − health care is a veterinary horse, especially in our country, where the emigration of qualified doctors has reached alarming proportions, thanks to the faulty government policy. since our parliamentary proposals on this subject are routinely rejected, it's unlikely that the intention is to destroy health care. the report addresses recommendations and objectives to reduce adverse events (infections, malfunctions, etc.) related to patient safety, including medical care. of these, 30 to 40% could be prevented, and currently affect an average of 3.2 million people in the eu and cause 37 000 deaths. the economic impact of supply-related infections is also significant. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this regulation. the report states that there is still a lot to improve. it emphasises patient information, support for research, and measures for education and training. it's basically fair, which is why i voted for it.
written. − i voted in favour of the parliament's report on action against misleading advertising practices because, in the european union, this phenomenon causes billions of euros of damage to businesses, especially small businesses. criminals are very creative and will try anything to achieve their goals: for example, fake invoices for services never provided; non-existent or insignificant professional address books; fake invoices from chambers of commerce or patent offices; misleading payment forms; offers to extend internet domain names; extending trademark protection to other countries. the european union and its member states can play a key role in countering this phenomenon, inter alia by setting up contact points, compiling databases and strengthening international cooperation.
in writing − billions of euros are lost to european businesses through deceptive marketing practices, such as putting unsuspecting entrepreneurs on a non-existent professional mailing list for thousands of euros. i voted in favour of the recommendations of my colleague mr de jong, because i believe that his proposal would help to reduce this phenomenon. the eu can play an important role. first, a contact point should be set up in each member state to collect complaints and create a database with concrete examples. this will allow the creation of a european database containing not only misleading practices but also the names of companies convicted. they could then be excluded from eu public procurement or subsidies. of course, prosecutors should also give priority to cases like this. even if it's a small amount in a case, if we add it all up, it's a significant amount.
written − we have seen firsthand how much of a fraud the whole eu accession was. after all, crowds have opened a pastry shop in vienna. it's a little bit like this, you remember the free phone books, the accommodation offers, the prizes, etc. the report addresses deceptive marketing practices that cause financial losses in the union of billions of euros per year. smes are the main victims of this deceptive practice. the parliament has already addressed misleading marketing practices, often of a cross-border nature, on several occasions and called on the commission and the member states to step up regulatory cooperation. it is necessary for member states to establish or designate national information points where businesses and other victims of fraudulent practices can report such cases and, where necessary, receive legal assistance. i prefer to see the imprisonment of fraudsters as a goal, but this small step must be supported
in writing. – i welcome the final report of the special crim committee that sets out a coherent regulatory framework to tackle the core problems of organised crime and to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at both eu and international level. the adoption of this report is just the first major step to eradicate organised crime. i agree with the main thesis of the report: the focus needs to be centred around the elimination of corruption and to introduce deterrent confiscation of property assets. organised crime and terrorism are interlinked to a great extent that is also well manifested in the fragility of the sahel-sahara region. we do not see yet clearly, what type of terrorist groups and organised crime activities will be brought to the surface by the ongoing processes and uncontrolled violence at the ‘arab spring’ region especially in egypt and syria. cybercrime is another crucial issue that has radically changed the traditional mafia-type organisation and created new structures, primarily in the field of russian and russian-speaking organised crime. i would also highlight next to the illicit trafficking of cbrn materials, the spread of criminal organisations camouflaged as ngos and charity organisations in order to carry out financial transactions.
my fellow members of parliament! the eurobarometer data show that more than 70% of the eu population think they need more information on cross-border justice. i believe that e-justice should be a community initiative that adds value to our citizens. that our citizens may, in cross-border situations, family situations or work situations, at any time require quick and easily accessible information or forms or procedural knowledge on judicial or administrative proceedings in another member state. it should therefore serve those purposes in the first place. the aim may be to reduce cross-border red tape and procedural costs. but i also think it's important to emphasize volunteerism. in fact, there may be areas of law in individual member states where it is unfortunate to impose new obligations on member states. before developing, it is important to assess the real needs of users and legal entities. however, as regards the financing of projects related to e-justice, it is essential that member states have access to financial support even when they are making any development, national development, to meet the union's expectations in this area. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i believe that e-justice should also extend to the development and dissemination of e-learning and e-education materials for training of judges, prosecutors and public administration. parliament is happy to cooperate with the council in order to achieve these objectives.
this is a very important issue. it has become a campaign issue, and unfortunately, it is expected to remain a surface issue in the months ahead, as national elections are held in many countries for parliaments. where unfortunately certain parties use the issue of foreign workers to mislead voters. i am very pleased that the commission's study confirms that it is not a question of workers going to different european countries for social services, but that they are primarily choosing to go there in the hope of secure jobs and better pay and a better way of life. they account for only 3% of the labour market, while 2 million jobs are unfilled in the european union. what's the solution? the solution would be to accelerate the catch-up process in the central european countries, including hungary. everything should be done to ensure that the regions which have been left behind - such as baranya county in our country - can make substantial progress on the labour market as soon as possible. that's what you need to focus on.
madam president, commissioner, it should be clear enough by now that the eastern partnership is a three-way contest. the actors are russia, the eu and the six states involved. they all have different perspectives, interests and aims. now, until we stop them taking the attractiveness of the eu for granted, we run the risk of finding ourselves in a ‘one-down’ position. russia does have advantages in the eastern partnership states: it can build on links with the soviet past, notably the former nomenklatura, the kgb networks and, of course, the economic ties. what is in the eu’s favour is that none of the six wants to find itself fully back under moscow’s thumb. they prefer to hold on to their sometimes precarious independence, but equally they do not really want to sign up to the eu’s complex of regulations either. so the stakes are real. are these states to be tied to russia, to the eu, or just float between the two? i believe there is a great deal of floating to come.
in writing. – for almost 10 years now, the european neighbourhood policy has promoted a range of useful initiatives in the 16 countries involved, mostly in the fields of economy and commerce. when outlining new directions and approaches to strengthening the partnership, more emphasis should be placed on promoting social development and reducing inequalities in the region, since these are prerequisites of successful economic integration and cohesion. this also requires stepping up action against social exclusion and promoting respect for the rights of national and ethnic minorities. there is a significant roma population in moldova and ukraine, who face maybe even more social exclusion than their counterparts in the eu or in the accession countries. in many disadvantaged rural areas of these two countries, access to even the most basic public services is limited for roma communities and the educational performance of roma children lags far behind the national average. for that reason a continuous connection should be established between their inclusion efforts and the eu roma inclusion process for changing experiences and practices. this spring a long-term roma integration strategy was launched in ukraine, the successful implementation of which could also be boosted by their involvement.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! the european fisheries fund, the allocation of which we are talking about, the principles of allocation, is closely based on the common fisheries policy, which the european parliament has recently succeeded in adopting. i think we can all be proud of that decision, and i myself, as a member of the hungarian delegation, voted for it to be adopted. i think that anyone who has read the international press's echoes of parliament's decision will be happy to say that it has been treated as one of the best, most forward-looking and most sustainable decisions of recent times. we must be very careful that the decisions we are taking now do not represent a step backwards from the success of the principles of the common fisheries policy. i therefore do not consider in any way that proposals which support new shipbuilding aid, but also engine renewals and engine replacements, can be supported. clearly, freshwater aquaculture needs to be further strengthened and the fisheries policy needs to be continued, which will lead to a renewed expansion of fish stocks, new jobs, the creation of almost 100 000 jobs and a turnover of over eur 1 billion in this industry.
in the air. in recent years, it has become increasingly clear that marine fishing is unsustainable and is leading to the collapse of ocean life worldwide. european waters are particularly affected by overfishing: according to the european commission, 47% of the atlantic ocean's fish stocks and 80% of the mediterranean's are overfished. at the same time, the consumption of halves is increasing worldwide. this growing demand can only be met in a sustainable way by fisheries, and in particular freshwater aquaculture. it is therefore important that fisheries become increasingly important in the european union's fisheries policy and that more and more eu resources are available in this area. it is in hungary's fundamental interest that union support for freshwater fisheries should continue to increase over the period 2014-2020. however, the report on the european fisheries fund contains a number of elements that may prevent hungarian and other european fish farmers from taking advantage of the opportunities offered by investment aid, creating new jobs and increasing their production. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the rules on state aid, such as one which would prohibit aid for investments aimed at the rearing of exotic fish species such as african cuttlefish. these fish species can be produced in a competitive and sustainable way in our country and their exclusion from aid is therefore unacceptable.
my fellow members of parliament! i congratulate the reporter. it's very brave to do this kind of work when in a crisis, everyone is always talking about cutting budgets, cutting, spending in some way. i think it's wise, even in these circumstances, to sacrifice ourselves to get as much information as we can about our seas. if i look at just one aspect of the usefulness of the knowledge we have gained, the fisheries policy we have just introduced could be one of the big winners. we have a database of information that allows us to keep up to date with changes in fish stocks and to intervene immediately whenever we see the need to change the principles of the common fisheries policy or the allocation of the fisheries funds. because they didn't have the effects we were expecting. fish stocks will not increase, and the reproduction rate of protected species will not change at the expected level. so thank you very much and congratulations on your work.
remember the lisbon strategy adopted in 2000 which dreamed of the eu as the most advanced region in the world? remember the 2005 review, when we listed the implementation errors that were missed? now, the year following the 2008 crisis has been successful in averting the worst. but today we're also talking about how to stay the most competitive. it is urgent that we get the eu financing back on track! what if the voters didn't pay their bills? what if companies fail to pay their contractual obligations? what example do heads of state set when they evade their duties and then point the finger? it is urgent, ladies and gentlemen, that we speed up legislation, especially in the digital field, because without it, our competitiveness cannot be managed. the development of the ict sector is not a sectoral issue, but an urgent economic, social issue, the main instrument of exclusion. with the world at your fingertips, you can travel 40 miles from any european capital and not have adequate internet coverage. it should be recognised that the exclusion of rural areas from digital networks is the greatest risk today. this is the reason for the migration from the countryside to the city. you're not on the grid, you're not on the grid. they have no jobs, they are not part of society, they have very difficult access to public services. the implementation of the digital agenda is the greatest opportunity of our time, and heads of government must seize it!
there are many and wide-ranging issues on the agenda for this meeting. i can only hope that the council will reach the essential issues beyond the general ones. i want to talk about three topics, the first one is the digital economy. it is important to look for breaking points, points that offer opportunities for the integrated eu economy. at the same time, it should be noted that this sector, although performing above average during the crisis, is the one that is most affected by the obstacles to the internal market and by the fragmentation of the internal market. it cannot be that while we are cutting resources in the short term, we expect this area to show sustained growth. if we don't remove the barriers, we're still going to have 28 fragmented digital markets. the second topic is economic policy coordination, the question of the european semester. it is very important that economic coordination is strengthened, but responsibility for this process must be borne by all. i have found that in its decisions so far the commission has exceeded its own powers in certain areas, erred in the area of competence of the member states and even erred in numbers, which are strong in some respects. i would like to see the commission in the next period, the next semester, bearing the consequences of its decisions. i also think it is important to have this responsibility both ex ante and ex post. the third issue is the reduction of bureaucracy, which i can only support.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development - mr president, mr commissioner! my fellow citizens! as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development, i welcome the 2013 country-specific recommendations, which focus on growth, job creation and increasing the competitiveness of the eu economy. cohesion policy is an investment policy, and it plays a key role in growth, job creation and competitiveness. in the light of all this, i think it is important to stress that cohesion policy funding must continue to be kept at an appropriate level. the role of cohesion policy in coping with the crisis is also indisputable. however, the crisis prevented many planned developments from being realised, as the necessary back-up, national co-financing, was difficult to secure. the opinion of the committee on regional development on the european semester therefore calls for flexibility, for example by temporarily increasing the union component of the co-financing rate for the beneficiary countries, so that the national co-financing obligation could be temporarily reduced.
written communication − it is essential to give young people a purpose in life and a livelihood, and preventive education is very important. the report concerns the monitoring of trade in substances used for the manufacture of drugs between the community and third countries. these are commonly used everyday substances, such as acetic acid, to make heroin. until now, medicinal products were not covered by the regulation, but medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine have also had to be covered by the regulation. the amended report had to be adopted in order to prevent or reduce the spread of a new generation of drugs.
written − i voted today in favour of the report on drug precursors, which is an amendment to regulation (ec) no 273/2004 on the subject. drug precursors, the chemicals used to produce illicit substances, have been subject to international rules, but drug traffickers have so far succeeded in bringing their raw materials into the legal trade. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission is also proposing the creation of a european database on chemicals used in the production of drugs. the world of drugs is a rapidly changing one, and it is therefore very important that community regulation keeps pace with the unfortunate developments in the field, and that information on new chemicals needed to produce drugs is essential for prevention purposes. i hope that this report will be adopted by the council as soon as possible, so that the legislation can enter into force, thereby also contributing to reducing the number of drug users who become addicted to such chemicals.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the legislative proposal aiming at preventing the diversion of acetic anhydride, the primary drug precursor of heroin, from the european union’s internal trade. strengthening this regulatory framework is extremely important because, despite the significant decrease in the past few years, heroin still accounts for the greatest share of drug-related morbidity in the eu. it is difficult to find a balance between avoiding unnecessary barriers to the legitimate trade in precursors and reducing administrative burdens for operators and competent authorities on the one hand, and reinforcing the monitoring and control of operators and users on the other. this initiative is a step in the right direction and i also welcome the proposal to extend the registration requirements – currently only applying to operators placing the precursor on the market – to include users of the substance and also to enhance the harmonised registration provisions to avoid the adoption of divergent national measures.
in the case of the european union, the european commission has already launched a new initiative, the european e-justice portal, which aims to provide citizens with a better understanding of the european union's legal and judicial systems and to facilitate their access to the european union's legal and judicial systems. the resolution calls for participation in projects to remain voluntary. it depends a lot on the attitude of the government to how civic-friendly the system is going to be, but with the rapid growth of the internet, i had to give it a chance to see if it would improve the current bureaucratic system, so i voted for it.
there are some privileges as the high representative, but from that point of view your chair will be rather severe. anyhow, for a good foreign policy we need highly-educated diplomats, a good policy – and we also need money. therefore i now give the floor to the rapporteur from the committee on budgets, ms neynsky, for one minute.
the next item is the debate on the report on electronic communications (2013/2080 (ini)) by catherine trautmann, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0313/2013). the following point is taken from the debate on the oral question to the commission by mr giles chichester, on behalf of the group of the european conservatives and reformists, on the recent proposals for the creation of a digital single market (o-000109/2013 - 2013/2892 ((rsp) - b7-0523/2013)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
written the report by mrs catherine trautmann on electronic communications is of great importance, as we have a common interest in ensuring that an increasing proportion of society can enjoy the benefits of the internet. i agree with the problems listed in the report, but let me highlight some particularly important points. first of all, i would like to draw attention to the consumer's point of view. consumers are interested in low prices and choice of service provider, and therefore a market structure should be established to ensure the greatest possible competition between service providers. secondly, we must also think about investment, since the precondition for competition is access to infrastructure and transparent, uniform and investment-friendly framework conditions. thirdly, the importance of broad, continuous and intensive consultation should not be overlooked in the design of the single market structure. a truly single market can only be achieved within a regulatory framework that faithfully reflects the views of all economic and governmental actors and other stakeholders. in this context, i welcome the commission's proposal for a regulation on a connected continent, which seeks to address the problems listed above. however, this proposal addresses complex issues that can only be addressed by a package based on a thorough situational assessment. however, he fears that the tight timetable of the package has prevented this detailed assessment of the situation and it is expected that the current parliamentary term will be short to discuss the issue in detail.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the future of the eu wine sector, tabled by astrid lulling and paolo de castro on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000097/2013 - 2013/2850 ((rsp) - b7-0519/2013)
ms lulling, i am sorry, but i am not in a position to give you the floor now. i disagree with this rule, but that is the rule, and, as we have heard from the commissioner, a rule is a rule. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
written − the european parliament's plenary today adopted the parliamentary reading of the 2014 eu budget. meps would set the level of commitments for the first budget for the period 2014-2020 at eur 142,6 billion and the payment appropriations at eur 136,1 billion. this would mean that the european parliament would spend some eur 1.1 billion more on community programmes than the council's position. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
written: i welcome the budg report on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. as rapporteur for the imco committee, i am pleased that our proposals have been incorporated almost entirely into this report. i congratulate mrs jenssen and mrs hohlmeier on their excellent work of coordination. i think, on the whole, there's no point in arguing with you.
written − the eu budget is the jewel in the crown of neoliberal economic policy, which has tried to deal with the crisis by cutting off everything that makes sense, even for the sake of setting an example. almost every paragraph of the report refers to the council's reduction of support for the area concerned, and in some cases to a relatively large extent, for example the budget for economic, social and territorial cohesion was cut by almost 10%. in fact, compared to the 2013 budget, there has been no saving at all, less than one-tenth of one thousandth of eu gdp, well below the margin of error for gdp measurement, but at the same time, some programmes may be very short of that money. the report rightly criticises the budget, so i voted in its entirety, along with a number of sensible amendments.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the integrity of the group's voting, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who presents the position to the whole group in the course of the plenary votes. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so it happens that the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
written − it is a sad experience that the commission's activities often promote the colonization of new member states and the market acquisition of old ones. the regulation proposes that the commission should be empowered to adopt implementing acts in accordance with article 291 tfeu within the scope and limits set out in this draft regulation, in accordance with clearly defined criteria. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. and i have hungary's interests at heart, which the commission has not taken into account, so i voted against the proposal.
written − the european parliament voted today on the new rules for the eu fisheries fund for the 2014-2020 financial period. the european parliament has had a major success in hungary, as it has succeeded in preventing the adoption of proposals that threaten the development and future of the hungarian fisheries sector. the original report did not allow for eu aid to be granted for investments in exotic fish species or in natura 2000 sites. these proposals are technically flawed, scientifically unfounded and contrary to hungarian interests. a significant part of our fisheries lies within natura 2000 areas. however, these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. on the contrary, in many cases they owe this quality to the unique associations of aquatic habitats created or preserved by the algae. the development of hungarian fish farms could create at least 200 new jobs and nearly huf 12 billion in new investment over the next 7 years.
in writing, since trianon we have not made much money in sea fishing, so we can only support our former national interests. the report amends the commission's proposal for reform of the common fisheries policy. the amendments give priority to the protection of small-scale or coastal fisheries undertakings. it is important that farming is environmentally and socially viable. i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is important to strengthen the position of small fishermen.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the integrity of the group's voting, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who presents the position to the whole group in the course of the plenary votes. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so it happens that the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
written − the proposal, which i voted in favour of, contains the measures needed to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering for the period 2014-2019. i believe that it is essential for the protection of the financial interests of the union that the eu tackles the financial backdrop of organised crime more effectively. the resolution sets out a list of concrete actions to be implemented in the next parliamentary term.
written − topics of common interest such as employment and social policy, budgetary policy at eu level, the internal market, regional policy, the promotion of women's rights, etc. were on the agenda. i have to say in relation to the report that the european semester is not actually alleviating the crisis, but rather increasing it by imposing austerity on the member states. i don't agree with his economic philosophy or his practical methods. the latter constitute a serious interference in the internal affairs of individual countries and a serious restriction of national sovereignty, which is why i voted against the report as a whole, in favour of the individual amendments.
in writing. − the tragedy of the migrants drowned on the island of lampedusa should be a turning point in eu immigration policy. i supported the motion for a resolution because i too believe that such disasters can only be avoided by coordinating action at eu level and by following the principles of solidarity and responsibility. i think it is important that agreements on migration management be concluded with transit countries in the near future, and of course that the countries of origin of migrants should also be helped. lampedusa could be a turning point for europe: another tragedy can only be prevented if member states adopt a coordinated approach based on solidarity and shared responsibility, relying on common tools.
in writing. − i welcome the epp’s motion for a resolution, which gives particular attention to the migration flows in the mediterranean following the tragic events of lampedusa, where several hundred migrants died recently. i regret the fact that, despite the already existing measures in the mediterranean, this disastrous event was not prevented. it is vital to distinguish between economic migrants and genuine refugees and, therefore, to concentrate more on the genuine refugees in order to fully support them and provide aid to those who are in need. the main focus needs to be put on better coordination of eu means and resources, with particular reference to frontex (such as eurosur). this will not only ensure the protection and save the lives of migrants, but in cooperation with europol and third countries, the fight against criminal networks of human traffickers and smugglers could be pursued in a more efficient way. therefore, it is essential that we build up a proportional system with greater solidarity in which member states take up equal responsibility for the reception of refugees.
in writing. − i welcome the epp’s own motion for a resolution that advocates a full commitment to defending and protecting eu citizens against terror attacks. i therefore call for the tftp agreement not to be suspended on the basis of media allegations accusing the nsa of tapping into financial data from the swift database. i would like to highlight the fact that the representatives of europol and swift have already testified in front of the libe nsa inquiry that there has been no evidence indicating a breach of the tftp agreement. i would also avoid rushing into any conclusions until the end of the official investigation conducted by the commission, since it is not the parliament’s task to act as a ‘judge’ in such a highly sensitive political issue. i would also stress that we have no other instrument to replace this agreement or to monitor terrorist financing activities, and, without concrete reasons, the suspension would create a gap in eu counterterrorism policy. consequently, i strongly oppose the suspension of the agreement and reserve all actions until the end of the inquiry.
written − i did not support the agreement on the european union's seventh environment action programme with my vote because it contains objectives that are contrary to hungarian interests and that pre-empt the outcome of future negotiations within the european council on the post-2020 climate and energy policy framework. in my view, the decision on long-term climate policy objectives can only be taken at the level of the prime minister, as was stated in the conclusions of the european council of 22 may 2013, referring to the decision on the post-2020 climate and energy policy framework to be taken by the march 2014 council. in the light of the above, it is not acceptable for hungary that the present environmental action plan anticipates the decision to be taken at the highest political level and sets legally binding targets for member states in the field of climate policy.
the model of economic development that has been forced upon the world is completely flawed, one that promotes continuous growth when the planet's possibilities are finite. the report was brought to the agenda because the eu's environment action programme expired in 2012, and now the 2020 agenda and the 2050 vision have been drawn up. by wasting our lives, we endanger ourselves and future generations. we should not forget that we did not inherit our earth from our fathers, but we borrowed it from our grandchildren. the report helps protect the environment, so i supported it.
in writing, the commissioner said that the radiation exposure from ionising radiation is harmful to health even in small doses, and that protection against it is in everyone's interest. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive on the basic safety standards for protection against the dangers arising from ionising radiation. the proposal is a recast of an earlier council directive which represents further steps towards improving protection against exposure to ionising radiation. the proposal combines the medical directive, the directive on high-activity radiation from closed sources, the directive on external workers and the directive on information to the public with directive 96/29/euratom on basic safety standards, on the basis of article 31 of the euratom treaty. it incorporates the latest scientific data and increased experience on radiation protection into the current legislation. in order to improve the protection of the general public, natural sources of radiation have been included for the first time in the basic safety standards directive.
written − a number of issues should be properly addressed, from the huge radioactive emissions from mines and coal plants to the far more severe interference with the germination of gm foods than radiation. but it's being blocked by very powerful lobbies with a terrible press backing. they've even been able to prevent the correct labeling of gmo foods. the proposal represents, within the limits of its possibilities, a further step towards improving protection against exposure to ionising radiation. since the goal is to increase the safety of the population, i voted for the motion.
in writing − in particular, we have made progress in certain areas of electronic communications, such as roaming charges, which is perceptible to citizens. however, it is regrettable that we still expect the commission to establish a dialogue and a relationship on various aspects such as investment, data protection, conditions of competition and state aid. the rapporteur went further and created its own electronic consultation platform, which is accessible via the itre website. i find your work to be very forward-looking, and i voted for the motion.
there is no written rule about that, and there is no written rule on who will have the opportunity to speak, which is completely dependent on the president. that is my answer, and may i say you were rather clever in using the point of order to express your thanks to doris pack. i would also like to remind you that everybody has the possibility to send, in writing, their non-delivered speeches, and that these will be part of the report of proceedings.
i shall close the debate by making a short remark. i am sure that students also moved around in the time of erasmus, so there is nothing new in that. but those living in this part of europe will maybe not understand what that freedom of movement means for those of us who have come from behind the iron curtain, so i wish to thank you very much for your efforts. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 november 2013.
in the air. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, doris pack, on her work in putting together this great programme and on her effective handling of the many amendments which our colleagues have tabled to it. i welcome the outcome of a long legislative process to ensure the continuity of the current well-established and successful programmes. the retention of the erasmus, comenius or leonardo brand names is a very important issue in order to allow beneficiaries to easily switch between sub-programmes. i welcome the efforts made by parliament to ensure that the youth in action programme is also treated separately and that sport is included as an area to be supported in the multiannual financial perspective. the actions proposed in the new programme to support sport are thus in line with the eu sport work plan adopted in 2011 under the hungarian presidency. in the context of jean monnet activities, it would have been essential to have distributed the aid on the basis of a call for proposals. this would have strengthened and underpinned free competition and would have served to maintain and increase quality elements. on this basis, i do not see any justification for naming the institutions, but i accept the compromise given the similar solution in the previous periodic regulation. and overall, i will support the regulation so that the new programme can start on 1 january 2014.
in the air. the european commission has proposed a new integrated programme in the education, training and youth sector, called 'erasmus for all', for the seven-year financial period starting in 2014, which will bring together the seven existing programmes and provide a 70% increase over the previous budget period. one of the most effective tools we have in the fight against poverty and social exclusion is education. we have said many times that it is vital to tackle early school leaving, to provide the higher education and training needed for successful placement and to make it available to everyone. it is extremely important to have a good knowledge of foreign languages, to spread the possibilities of non-formal education widely and to make available internships. as the new programme covers the whole of education, it is therefore essential that it is inclusive and that a strong emphasis is placed on ensuring that members of disadvantaged social groups, including those with serious health problems, disabled people and roma children, pupils and students, have equal and integrated access to quality education and training and to the programmes attached to it at all levels and that they all benefit from the programme. it would also be appropriate to develop a specific methodology in order to successfully reach these groups and to facilitate their participation in the programme. it should also be regularly checked that members of these groups have equal access to the programme and have been able to take advantage of the opportunities offered.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. - first of all, i would like to congratulate the speaker, with whom we have had a very good cooperation. one of the main objectives of the framework programme is to contribute to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, including improving the employment situation, by supporting the creative sectors. in 2010, the cultural and creative sectors accounted for 3,3% of the union's gdp and 3% of the working age population, employing 6,7 million people, many of them in micro-enterprises. the key players in the sector are young people, and many internationally recognised start-ups in the audiovisual and it sector have been launched in europe, such as the hungarian prezi software. we consider it important that the framework programme should also be accessible to disadvantaged groups, people with disabilities, roma and businesses in member states and regions with limited support capacity. it is for the member states to create synergies between the framework programme and the national regulatory environment so that the programme can make a real contribution to the objectives set.
i congratulate the rapporteur on his work and on the excellent cooperation between the council and the commission in this programme, which brings together the basic programmes mentioned and preserves their specific features. an important result of our committee work is that we have drawn attention to the importance of cultural heritage in the creation of the framework programme. thanks to my amendments, european cultural diversity will be highlighted as one of the general objectives of the new framework programme. i also consider it a significant achievement that we have agreed with the council on the need for mobility of artists. as regards the co-financing rate, i also find the compromise acceptable, whereby the commission continues to provide a maximum of 80% of the total budget for the projects concerned, while abolishing the minimum threshold in this respect. and as for the budget allocation, i support... (the president cut the speaker off)
this report is about intercultural dialogue. well, it could tell you a lot about cross-cultural dialogue, like the man with the bloodied face whose photograph i hold in my hand on an invitation. this man had no other crime, along with many of his fellow citizens who live in total disfranchisement, than being born a hungarian in serbia waiting to join. my fellow members of parliament! if you are serious about the need for dialogue between cultures and nations, please stop the gross human rights violations against the indigenous hungarian national communities in serbia, who live in total deprivation of rights. if you'd like to know more about this, and if you're really interested in cross-cultural issues, come by tomorrow at 1 a.m. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. in 2013, europe reached milestones in the development of its transport, energy and digital networks. by focusing on these, the european network financing facility will contribute to the achievement of the european single market. targeted investment in key infrastructure will boost job creation and enhance europe's competitiveness at a time when europe needs it most. in designing transport networks, we should seek to promote less polluting modes of transport, which will make our transport system more sustainable. in designing energy policy, it is essential to ensure that citizens and businesses alike can rely on energy that is available at an affordable price at all times. high-speed broadband infrastructures can have a significant and positive impact on the quality of life of european citizens, both economically and socially. i think we need to break down the physical and technical boundaries and fill in the missing links, especially between eastern and western europe, where the different levels and types of networks are still weak. ensuring open and fair competition in the transport, energy and digital networks markets is as important as i have said.
in writing. – in these times of increasing mistrust of the european union and its institutions, participation by european citizens in the democratic life of the union is one of our major challenges if we want to overturn this negative trend. enabling grassroots and bottom-up initiatives is crucial to restoring the connection with our citizens and with civil society. this programme therefore needs sufficient funding, with a fair geographical balance and enhanced collaboration between the eu institutions. let me also highlight two points included in the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. firstly, with regard to the european citizens initiative: while three initiatives have now reached the million signatures mark, we need to keep strengthening this tool of participatory democracy and to make it more accessible. secondly, we need to publicise the activities of european political parties who represent the natural link between citizens and the eu.
the biggest challenge for the european union in the coming years is not only to create jobs and reduce poverty but also to create opportunities for europe's young people. in particular, whether young people from poor or low-income families will have the opportunity to go to university or higher education. it is important not only for social justice but also for competitiveness that young talents from poor families are not lost. this is why talent rescue campaigns need to be launched at both member state and eu level. we need new colleges for talent, special scholarships. it is also important to support the european talent pool and the creation of equal opportunities at eu level within the framework of the erasmus+ programme, which will be launched in 2014. i propose that we set up a european talent rescue network to help disadvantaged young people to continue their education.
mr president, the new multiannual financial framework (mff) is a great victory for those political forces which show the greatest level of responsibility about using european taxpayers’ money. several governments in the european council, as well as the ecr group, have stated very clearly from the beginning that in times of deep economic and financial crisis the eu budget cannot grow in size. if national budgets have to shrink – and fiscal consolidation is an integral part of national economic policy – the eu too must adjust its fiscal stance. not that the only thing which matters is the size of the budget: equally important is the structure of the budget. in this respect we cannot be satisfied at all. despite calls for major improvements, the eu budget is still too heavily geared to spending on items which reflect the status quo, as defended by strong vested interests, rather than the future of the european union. the new mff will not change the status quo. it will not make the eu substantially more competitive and productive, and that is a pity. i have made several speeches in this house to draw attention to the fact that the eu budget is a capital budget rather than a current one, and i am glad that everybody now uses the term ‘investment budget’. given its small size compared to national budgets, it cannot, and should not, aspire to reflect the same priorities as national budgets. moreover, if the eu is not to evolve into a superstate, but rather is to remain a light structure for achieving objectives best achieved jointly, then the eu budget should finance almost exclusively investment projects.
in 1992, in edinburgh, member states decided that they had to put together 1.1% of gni to deal with the problems of the time. now, in 2013, this gni is decreasing, while the problems facing the member states, the problems facing the eu, have increased. there is complete agreement in this parliament that we think the council made a bad decision when it made this financial cut. but there is little we can do now but try to make the most of this budget by improving efficiency, by making the best use of resources, and by getting to the point where we can, at the first opportunity, reassess what are the tasks to which we need to devote more resources. where is the european added value? we need to return to the question of competitiveness, we need to know that without research, development and innovation, there is no future. the funds for research and development will not be sufficient on their own at the moment, but they are being overshadowed by the large projects, and we must certainly deal with that. restoring competitiveness, giving young people a vision of the future, this is the common european added value that we see in jeopardy today, and yet we must vote on this budget to move on from this at the time of the review.
i do not see mr trzaskowski in the chamber, so if this is the case i will close the debate with a dream, namely that after reaching this fantastic agreement, the member states will be able to implement it. seven years ago, the european union was practically at a standstill for a year. that is to change, but this requires a lot of very hard work from the member states. congratulations to everyone. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – i welcome the fair compromise on the multiannual financial framework of the european union that ended several months of debate. one of parliament’s most important achievements in this process was the introduction of the compulsory mid-term review of the financial framework that leaves open the possibility of mobilising more resources for the fulfilment of community goals. i also welcome the inclusion of two of the special budgetary instruments that aim to ensure the financing of policies of special interest. the first is the global margin for commitments for growth and employment, in particular youth employment, which has been made available over and above the ceilings established in the mff for the years 2016-2020. the second is the specific flexibility for tackling youth unemployment and strengthening research, with the possibility of frontloading as part of the annual budgetary procedure – up to no less than eur 2 543 million – in 2014 and 2015 for specified policy objectives relating to youth employment, research, erasmus, in particular for apprenticeships, and small and medium-sized enterprises.
in the air. i welcome the agreement, but i must note that we are already in the post-final moment. this february, the european council agreed that member states, with governments accountable to their constituents, should be in the lead in deciding how much to pay and how much to receive over the next seven years. despite all this, we wasted almost a year because there were still many people in the eu institutions who thought that it was possible to reopen the most important issues beyond the competences laid down in the eu treaties by playing the game of procrastination. of course, i'm not saying that we've come up with a perfect solution. there is always room for further refinement and harmonization of legislation. however, it is often not a question of how much money is available, but whether member states can call up all the funds at all. this requires careful planning and preparation, which may take up to six months. unfortunately, this opportunity to prepare has not been taken up by the left, whereas the esf's share of the funds is increasing in such a way that the figures show that the majority of member states have not been able to use 100% of the funds. the plan for the use of funds to reduce youth unemployment should have been ready in the member states long ago, but it was precisely because of the delaying tactics of the left that it could not even begin!
the next item is the report of ms anne e. jensen and ms monika hohlmeier, on the common draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 (13176/2013 - c7- 0260/2013 - 2013/2145 ((bud)) (a7-0387/2013).
first of all, i want to congratulate the performers, they did a great job. in particular, in view of the way in which the problems surrounding the mff negotiations have hampered the adoption of the 2014 budgetary framework. we all know that this amount is below the ceiling negotiated under the mff. we also know that there's no reserve, we also know that there's no flexibility. however, i think that my colleagues and i can agree on the main priorities, and i believe that member states, if they use their possibilities with sufficient flexibility, can contribute to job creation, to increased production and thus to increased economic performance. however, i would ask the commission to deal with requests from member states in this respect with the necessary flexibility, efficiency and speed. mr. president, i have to go. i would like to contribute to the adoption of the budget by my own vote, so that now is the time for action rather than words.
ten years ago i was amazed by the work of jan mulder as a speaker, and for the ten years since then i have been involved in budgetary debates. i never thought i'd be sitting at the president's table watching this debate, but i do know that the praise that has been given here is the praise that is deserved. it's not self-praise, it's hard work. it's the future that will decide whether 6% self-discipline is some kind of suicide. i hope that this will not be the case, i hope that this budget will be enforceable and will bring real results for the citizens of europe. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 20 november 2013. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon) the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. as the people's party coordinator of the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs, i welcome the draft 2014 budget and today's debate. i consider it extremely significant that after long negotiations the council and the european parliament have finally reached an agreement and i welcome the fact that, despite the cuts, the commitment appropriations for competitiveness, growth and employment have increased. i would also like to express my satisfaction with the efforts made by both institutions during the negotiations to ensure that the 2014 budget is a stimulus for economic growth and job creation, with a particular focus on young people. the youth employment initiative will thus have a commitment appropriation of eur 3.9 billion and a payment appropriation of eur 900 million to allow the programme to start properly. with regard to the new eu fund for the most deprived, i would also like to express my satisfaction that the amount allocated to the fund has increased from the initial eur 2.5 billion to eur 3.5 billion. the eures programme budget will also be increased under the agreement, which is of great significance as it will also finance the mobility of unemployed young people. however, the european globalisation adjustment fund will unfortunately only have €159 million available in future instead of the previous €500 million commitment appropriation. in addition, it will also have to finance youth unemployment, which was not previously the responsibility of the fund, so that the fund will have to do more with less money.
in writing. − the european parliament gave its consent to the february agreement of the european council of heads of state or government at its plenary session today. this decision will allow the planning of the union's financial period 2014-2020 to start. the european parliament was unable to substantially amend the main headings of the 2014-2020 financial framework in its negotiations with the council. over the next seven years, €960 billion will be available for commitments and €908 billion will be spent on eu programmes. in seven years, we will receive 35.5 billion euros in regional development and agricultural resources. in terms of net position, hungary has the second highest per capita aid in the union. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament approved the eu's multiannual financial framework by a large majority at its plenary session in november. it is regrettable that the european parliament has not been able to substantially amend the headings of the 2014-2020 financial framework during the interinstitutional negotiations, so that over the next seven years eur 960 billion will be committed and eur 908 billion will be actually spent on eu programmes. at the same time, the european parliament was able to make progress in the negotiations. eur 2.5 billion is earmarked for 2014 and 2015 for objectives related to youth employment, research under the erasmus programme and support for smes. an additional €1 billion will be available to provide food aid to those most in need. parliament also pushed for a mid-term review of the framework in 2016 to allow for additional resources to be brought into the common budget (if the union's economic performance improves by then). a high-level conciliation body will be set up to reform the system of own resources representing the revenue side of the union budget.
in writing. − the hungarian people's party has been pressing for an agreement with the council as soon as possible to secure the eu funds that will be transferred to hungary between 2014 and 2020 following the european council's agreement in february. we must stand firmly for the acceptance of the compromise, as it serves the interests of both european and hungarian citizens. hungary is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the agreement, receiving more than €35 billion in development and agricultural aid over the next seven years. the adoption of the agreement will allow the new multiannual programmes to start in 2014. the current hungarian government institutional system is ready to launch programmes and effectively draw up the resources, which means that tens of thousands of jobs can be created in hungary in the coming years with the help of subsidies.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the european parliament adopting the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and the new interinstitutional agreement. hungary is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the february agreement: the negotiating delegation led by viktor orbán was able to get a bigger slice of the smaller eu pie than the previous socialist government. in seven years, hungary could receive 35.5 billion euros in regional development and agricultural resources, making it the second largest per capita aid recipient in the european union. however, it is important that the mid-term review of the financial framework takes place no later than 2016 so that additional resources can be brought into the common budget if the union's economic performance improves by then.
in writing. − i am pleased that parliament and the council agree on the importance of stimulating economic growth and job creation, especially in the context of the situation of young people. youth unemployment is much higher than that of the adult population. as new graduates with little work experience, they face many obstacles that make placement not only difficult but often impossible. it is therefore particularly important that next year a commitment appropriation of eur 3.9 billion and a payment appropriation of eur 900 million have been agreed for the financing of the youth employment initiative. it is welcome that the new eu fund for the most deprived has increased from the initial €2.5 billion to €3.5 billion. however, it is regrettable that the budget of the european globalisation adjustment fund will be reduced, despite the fact that this fund has very important tasks.
in writing. − the european parliament's plenary today voted by a large majority to adopt the new eu programme for education, training, youth and sport, known as erasmus+. the programme will run for seven years between 2014 and 2020. the most successful and well-known of the union's initiatives, erasmus, enjoying a high level of popularity, can also be continued as a sub-programme of the framework programme, with some 2,3 million students participating in exchange programmes between 1987 and 2011. erasmus+ will bring together a large number of young people, over four million, aged between 13 and 30, in a variety of programmes. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the erasmus programme, which was set up to support mobility, has helped some 2.3 million students to participate in exchange programmes between 1987 and 2011, so it is fair to say that erasmus is a model for mobility programmes in other sectors of education, vocational training and youth work. as a former minister for sport, i am particularly pleased that sport has been included as an area to be supported in the multiannual financial perspective. the actions proposed in the new programme to support sport are thus in line with the eu sport work plan adopted in 2011 under the hungarian eu presidency.
in writing. − today i voted in favour of the proposal to establish the 'erasmus+' programme in the hope that it will prove to be a suitable instrument for the adequate protection and promotion of national minority and regional languages and endangered languages, as the european commission had previously promised. the european union's education, training, youth and sport programme as its name suggests should really be accessible to everyone, whether the student, learner or even sportsperson is part of a majority or national minority community. it is important to recognise that future support for multilingualism must not only mean support for the learning of the major european languages, but also for the majority of minority and endangered languages and for mutual learning of each other's languages in neighbouring countries. linguistic mobility is not just about a member of a minority community learning the majority language, but also about a member of the majority doing the same, thus also coming closer to the community, understanding it better. i hope that the european commission will also take the initiative to support such programmes. it is also recommended that you exercise caution when listing individual erasmus+ programmes, so that communities speaking endangered languages can apply for funding from erasmus+ despite their small size.
in writing. − i believe that supporting not only students in higher education and vocational training but also adults and the disadvantaged is important. it is a pleasure to see that the erasmus programme has been universally recognised throughout the world. however, he fears that extending the programme beyond higher education could cause confusion in the future. therefore, i propose that the current designations comenius (for school education), erasmus (for higher education), leonardo da vinci (for vocational education), grundtvig (for adult learning) and young people in action (for youth) should be retained and strengthened separately.
in writing. − the ambitious and diverse ‘erasmus for all’ programme may prove one of the most beneficial initiatives of the 2014-2020 programming period and will hopefully inherit the success and popularity of its predecessor strands. the promotion of education in a lifelong learning perspective, including vocational training and adult learning is of major importance and the focus on youth covering also non-formal and informal learning, active citizenship, social inclusion and volunteering is also to be highly welcomed. the programme will hopefully not only improve the level of key competences and skills, but also promote social cohesion and inclusion of vulnerable groups at risk of educational disadvantage as well as safeguard young people coming from a socially disadvantaged background so that they can also benefit from the programme. the major emphasis placed on sports and grassroots sports in particular is very important, and the programme will hopefully increase the number of socially disadvantaged children in competitive and leisure sport activities and furthermore develop sport facilities and opportunities so that disadvantaged children can engage in sport outside school in disadvantaged regions. i also truly hope that the connected european sports day or week promoting the social and cultural role of amateur and professional sport can be realized.
in writing. − welcomes the agreement reached after four tripartite consultations, proposes the establishment of two sub-programmes with separate budgetary priorities on the basis of the text adopted; the programme aims to support and strengthen european culture in the fields of film, television, culture, music, performing arts and cultural heritage protection in the participating countries. the programme is also very important in that it provides, for example, distribution support for more than a thousand european films, with a view to their screening in europe and beyond. it will support some 2500 european cinemas to ensure that at least half of the films they screen are european. it supports the translation of more than 5500 books and other literary works. the programme will also provide significant support for cultural organisations, artists and cinemas in hungary in the coming years, which is why i supported the vote on the report.
in writing. − i believe that it is of paramount importance to protect creativity and culture across europe. although we are different, it is important to strengthen the european idea, democracy, peaceful coexistence and thus to provide opportunities for dialogue between different cultures. this report sets these objectives and i therefore support it with a positive vote.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the establishment of the creative europe programme as a framework linking the culture programme and a media programme, including a cross-sectoral strand between the two. hopefully, the programme will contribute to the development and promotion of europe’s cultural and linguistic diversity, safeguard and enhance our common cultural heritage, as well as develop a sense of european identity among european citizens. it is also necessary to build up and strengthen the capacity of cultural and creative sectors in the eu, with a view to promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and to help them to adapt to industrial and economic changes. the promotion and enhancement of the transnational circulation of european cultural and creative works and the mobility of cultural and creative operators in the above-mentioned sectors is also very important, as well as to reach wider and new audiences and improve access to cultural and creative works in europe, in particular for youth, members of minorities, and disadvantaged groups.
in writing. - i congratulate the committee on culture and education and the rapporteur on their work. despite the procedural difficulties, parliament was able to agree to a great compromise in the current form of the programme. i am pleased that the europe for citizens programme 2007-2013 will continue as a separate programme beyond 2013. i agree with the objectives of the programme, particularly the strengthening of historical memory. i consider it important to strengthen the objective of supporting 'historical memory and european citizenship', as one of the main objectives of the programme is to commemorate the victims of totalitarian regimes. the union has a valuable role to play in facilitating, sharing and promoting collective remembrance of the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes in europe. therefore, the relevance of historical, cultural and intercultural aspects as well as the links between memory and european identity should also be taken into account. in addition, the programme may contribute to further improving relations between member states and to preserving and promoting cultural and linguistic diversity to the greatest extent possible. i voted in favour of the programme being adopted under the consensus procedure, so that it can start at the beginning of next year.
in writing. − the programme aims to strengthen commitment to european integration by promoting participation in the democratic life of the union, allowing for the exchange of experience on the benefits of european integration at the concrete, local or individual level. the support of sister-city programmes is particularly important for hungary, as it allows cooperation between many towns across the border and in hungary, thus strengthening cross-border cooperation. that's why i supported the appearance in the plenary vote.
in writing. − i support the continuation of the commission's proposal for a europe for citizens (2014-2020) as a continuation of the current programme (2007-2013). this programme provides an opportunity for eu citizens to catch up. i also consider it important to strengthen historical memory and to increase the capacity for civic participation at eu level.
in writing. − i would like to welcome this report and the preparation of the ‘europe for citizens’ programme, which may largely contribute to the development of a european sense of togetherness, through showing the cultural, linguistic and geographical diversity of our union and cultivating our common history. the transmission and research of the diverse historic experiences, values and memories of europe will hopefully firmly promote understanding and peace. i would like to welcome in specific the programme’s focus on minorities including roma, because increasing public awareness of their role in the common european history as well as their vicissitudes may strengthen tolerance and stability. it also very important to give official support to the research into the less well-known chapters of totalitarian atrocities throughout the continent, such as the roma holocaust. the lack of a thorough and honest scientific analysis of the persecutions is an obstacle to facing and atoning for historic sins, and drawing their lessons for the sake of our common future. historical truth and memory however, will reinforce genuine reconciliation between communities, strengthen and peace, and strengthen our unity as free and equal european citizens.
in writing. − the chernobyl accident in 1986 and the fukushima daiichi accident in 2011 showed that a nuclear accident can have a global impact on public health, social life, the environment and the economy that transcends national borders. it is therefore essential that the european union prioritise the development of coordinated global cooperation in the field of nuclear security, in which the instrument for nuclear security cooperation (insc) plays a key role. building on the framework of nuclear cooperation already developed in the 1990s in central europe and the countries of the former soviet union, this instrument ensures that the eu can act effectively as a global actor in the face of challenges in third countries in the fields of nuclear safety, radiation protection and nuclear safeguards. i am confident that the experience of the european union in this field, both at community level and in the member states (e.g. improved management of radioactive waste), can serve as an example for third countries to adopt similarly high safety standards. i consider it important to extend the standards of transparent risk and safety assessments (resilience testing) to third countries. a common threat assessment system can have a positive impact on the maintenance, regulation and safety of nuclear power plants. this step can also contribute significantly to the development of a nuclear safety culture.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. − as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs and as a member of the european parliament's negotiating team, i can say that we have done a great deal of work. and i can express my satisfaction. our expert committee's opinion has been largely incorporated into the text, and will be adopted tomorrow. thank you to the negotiating team for consistently representing the equal opportunity perspective. the legislation is much better in terms of employment, social and equal opportunities than the current rules. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's policy on employment and social inclusion, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's policy on employment and social inclusion. the only thing left to do is to implement the legislation properly, and i would like to draw the commission's attention to that. member states should also fully implement the legislation.
as the labour party's employment coordinator, i welcome the agreement and the current debate, and this european social fund in particular. we who work in social affairs consider it one of the most important eu funds. and i do not agree with the proposals put forward by the mainly communist and green members to suspend the debate, to reopen the debate, to continue. i think the fact of the agreement is a great achievement. we need to have important programmes, whether it's youth initiatives or the poverty funds for the most deprived that are being set up now, to be able to start on 1 january and to be able to move forward in these processes. the crisis is not over, there are now more than 26 million unemployed in the european union. we don't have time for more debate, we have to compromise. and i think that's a good compromise. our colleagues elisabeth morin-chartier and adam kósa have been excellent representatives of the aspects we have jointly defined. i think it is an important achievement, we have already spoken and we have repeated the words about the ambitions of the europe 2020 strategy on poverty, and now we are finally allocating money, the minimum amount of money to be spent, to that 20%. the flexibility elements are important whereby individual countries may raise the age limit for the youth initiative to 30 years if they see fit. and although the member states' call rates are still not 100%, i regard 23.1% as a success, because it is also 1% more than before, and the possibility is open for member states to transfer additional resources to the social fund.
we've had some difficult negotiations, and we're pretty happy with the outcome. as the esf's shadow donor, i would like to thank the commission for its work and, in particular, for the lithuanian presidency's approach to creative negotiations. on the one hand, i have a serious concern about the macroeconomic conditionality that we have heard so much about today, and which is hitting those who need help the most. we can only hope that the built-in conditions will reduce this danger. the other such problem is the proposed esf share in cohesion policy. the difference from the 25% commission proposal is €6.7 billion, and member states are expected to use this money to develop infrastructure that serves short-term political interests rather than improving a disastrous labour market and social situation, rather than reducing poverty. representation of those affected by these problems is rather weak at member state level, whereas investing in human capacity would be in everyone's genuine long-term interest. there are some elements -- i know i have a minute and a half, so i'll go on -- which is an important result. on the one hand, member states need to align their operational programmes with their relevant strategies, such as the roma strategy, the disability strategy, and the provision of quality services and equal access to higher education is also an important element of the agreement. hopefully, the positive elements will work, and we can eliminate the negative ones.
cohesion policy will be a very important tool for the eu member states to kick-start the recovery in some countries and to strengthen it in others, to make job creation programmes successful and to enable more eu citizens to work. i regret that parliament was unable to achieve the deletion of the part concerning the macroeconomic conditionality restricting the use of cohesion funds. this is a concern because it is the result of improper government economic policies that indirectly hurt local governments and private businesses in the very countries where they are most needed. however, it is good that the suspension of payments can only be a last resort and that the 50% ceiling has been accepted. the question of the distribution of regional resources will also be very important, as this will allow us to create jobs in particularly disadvantaged areas, such as hungary, through tourism.
in the air. i am pleased that cohesion policy post-2014 is focusing on results and linking up with the union's new growth strategy, europe 2020. i believe it is important to give sufficient emphasis to flexibility in the member states beyond 2014, as this is the only way to provide tailor-made responses to local and regional challenges. it is regrettable that the macroeconomic conditionality has not been removed from the text of the legislation in the interinstitutional negotiations. the extension of macroeconomic conditionality to items beyond the cohesion fund is fundamentally problematic because it penalizes municipalities, enterprises, individuals for inappropriate economic policy measures by the central government; it sanctions cohesion policy for reasons entirely independent of it; and it does not ensure equal treatment, since different member states benefit from these resources to different degrees. as regards the social fund, i would point out that the esf is by no means the only and exclusive fund which helps to combat unemployment. there are many other factors contributing to the rise in unemployment, such as infrastructure factors, which the european regional development fund is most effective in helping to develop. it is therefore essential to ensure flexibility for member states, as 23.1% is only a minimum value, and member states can spend more on the objectives of the social fund if they consider it necessary.
mr president, parliament is moving this week towards a very important text that could contribute to breaking the glass ceiling which women have been facing for so long. and let us be honest: we have tried self-regulation by the market for a long time and it has failed. women are still very much under-represented in decision making and they continue to face multiple discrimination. without clear and binding legislation, and without the involvement of more women, this is not going to change any time soon. therefore, this is not only about democratic representation; it is also about using all the talent on the labour market. it is not only synonymous with a fairer economy; it is also smart businesses. this is a point on which a majority of european citizens agree, as we have seen from a study prepared by the commission: 75% were in favour. i think that is a very clear signal. and, of course, we finally have the opportunity to bring about some change and to assure equal opportunity to all. the core rapporteurs have done a great job in order to reach a compromise that is both economically sustainable and ambitious. therefore, i would urge you, colleagues, to support this proposal and contribute to another important milestone for the european parliament. i urge you to fight for gender equality and women’s rights.
the rapporteur is the committee on budgetary control. - the details of the compromise on our table have already been discussed by my colleagues in the field. i would like to express my deep and grave indignation at the publication of the draft delegated acts drawn up by the european commission to implement the common agricultural policy, which is to be adopted today. these proposals are clearly contrary to the will of the european council and the european parliament, the european legislators. they severely restrict the content of the common agricultural policy to be adopted today. i believe that if we talk so much about the use of eu funds in the context of the 'naming and shaming' tool, namely the naming of those responsible for the shame, then it is necessary to name the names of those who drew up these draft delegated acts, which are contrary to the intention of the european legislators. i believe that, like the governments of the 23 eu member states, parliament should speak out against this commission proposal and that these delegated acts should be prepared under strict parliamentary scrutiny.
i would like to congratulate commissioner cioloş and all the speakers. the main achievement of the new cap is that it gives member states a much greater margin of manoeuvre than before. hungary's flexibility is enhanced by the fact that, from 2015, the new member states will be able to allocate 13% of their national aid to support sensitive sectors such as livestock, horticulture and viticulture. it is unfortunate that the pig and poultry sectors are still the stepchildren of the common agricultural policy. it is very important that in the coming period, cooperation and integration will become possible not only in the fruit and vegetable sector but also in other sectors. a good compromise was reached on flat-rate support for small farmers, support for young start-up farmers and the aid ceiling. an important result is that it is possible to support small farms below five hectares, which helps hundreds of thousands of hungarian families to survive.
in the air. the negotiations on the new cap were about the survival of the cap. many felt that it was not in their interest to maintain the cap. ferenc gyurcsány, former hungarian socialist prime minister, stated that farmers do not need support. in contrast, the current government has managed to protect farmers' subsidies during the hungarian eu presidency. hungary has achieved a particular success in that we have increased the amount of agricultural subsidies in our country: in the next seven years, hungarian farmers can receive 20% more subsidies than in the previous seven years. we can help hungarian livestock and horticulture with production-related subsidies. it is a unique hungarian success that i propose to increase our country's isoglucose quota by 30 thousand tons. the most effective way to improve the competitiveness of farmers is to reduce energy costs. it is therefore important that 30% of rural development funds should be allocated to investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvements. the energy plant will be eligible for direct aid, will be accounted for in the ecological target area and will be able to receive production-related aid. agriculture's most important task is to produce food, as the rapid growth in demand will make food security a priority in the future. no cap measure should endanger food security. greening, i.e. reducing the area under cultivation by 5%, is therefore unacceptable! this could result in a reduction of up to 15 million tonnes of eu cereals production per year and even a net import of cereals.
on behalf of the ppe group. it is important that the commission's work programme for 2014 respects the principle, which the commissioner has mentioned, of setting out a few clearly defined priorities. the most important element of the european people's party's work programme is the programme for reindustrialisation and job creation, in which we also place particular emphasis on combating youth unemployment, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and providing the instruments needed to ensure the economic viability of the euro area. these principles must be applied in the sense that and this test must be carried out every time that european action really adds to national action in this field. in such a period, voters should not feel that the european union is intervening in matters that need to be resolved locally. citizens should feel that the european union is helping their national aspirations to address the issues just mentioned. in other words, the european added value test must be carried out each time. it is obviously important in this connection that the member states should also be left out. in a crisis, the solutions that have been tried ten or a hundred times and failed are not always the best ones. yes, in a crisis, creativity and new solutions are needed, and the european commission, both through regulation and through its various actions, together with parliament, should help these efforts, as we can learn from these examples in the future. that is why it is wrong to over-regulate, but it is also wrong to leave unregulated areas where self-regulatory mechanisms do not work. that is why, when we take decisions in the european union, when we implement the commission's programme, we must take into account, as the commissioner has said, that this is the year in which we must demonstrate to the commission, the european parliament, the european council and the member states that the added value of european union action is such that its withdrawal would cause very serious damage to european citizens. thank you for your kind attention. the european people's party welcomes the commission's work programme.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted the union's 2014 budget today in plenary by a large majority. for the coming year, €142.6 billion is available for commitments and €135.5 billion for payments. this decision will allow the timely start of the cohesion and agricultural payments that are important for our country. the budget also provides significant resources to address youth unemployment. the budget also included several important consumer protection provisions and support for a programme to show children how the judiciary works. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − with today's final approval of the 2014 budget by parliament, the european commission has secured over huf 110 million next year to support 'pilot projects' to bring the justice system closer to school-age children. in this way, you educate the next generation to be aware of their rights, to live by them, and to know better the judicial system of your country, how it works. i had already initiated support for this pilot project in the committee on citizenship, home affairs and justice in the autumn. it is symbolic that this decision has become official on the day when we celebrate the international day of the rights of the child, commemorating the anniversary of the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of civil partnership in the field of child protection. i hope that the project i have started will be able to contribute to this next year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the eu budget for next year, as it will continue to cover the 2014 catch-up programmes and agricultural payments that are so important for hungary. thanks to the european parliament, the 2014 budgetary negotiations have resulted in the first increase in the payment levels proposed by the european council since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. of this surplus of eur 350 million, r & d programmes, the cohesion fund, rural development and the instruments of the pre-accession and neighbourhood policies will also receive support.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the european parliament adopting the union's 2014 budget, as this will allow the timely start of the cohesion and agricultural payments that are so important for our country. the budget also provides significant resources to address youth unemployment. for the first time since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the level of payments reduced by the council has been increased. of this surplus of eur 350 million, r & d programmes, the cohesion fund, rural development and the instruments of the pre-accession and neighbourhood policies will also receive support. the danube region strategy, launched with great success by the hungarian presidency, will also be an integral part of the eu budget from next year.
in writing. - i believe that navigation technologies are now an essential part of our lives. satellite navigation plays a fundamental role in a number of economic sectors, in european transport and industry, and in the daily lives of european citizens. our current system is highly dependent on the american gps and the russian glonass systems, and i therefore believe that the development and deployment of an eu-based gnss-based navigation service, independent of the above technologies, should be supported. that's why i support this issue.
in writing. − the recommendation of the europol management board to the council of 4 october 2012 explaining why it is necessary to conclude an agreement with brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates is not in doubt. it is important to mention at this point that the council proposes to amend the list of third states and organisations concerned on the basis of the europol decision currently in force. however, the council's proposal cannot be accepted as the parliament is currently debating the commission's recent proposal for a new europol regulation (com (2013) 0173), which already amends the rules and procedures for concluding agreements with third countries. in addition, data protection concerns are also raised for some of the listed countries. should the draft council decision nevertheless be adopted, it would seem appropriate for the europol management not to enter into negotiations on operational agreements with the listed countries until the new europol regulation enters into force.
in writing. − i am pleased that cohesion policy post-2014 is focusing on results and linking up with the union's new growth strategy, europe 2020. i believe it is important to give sufficient emphasis to flexibility in the member states beyond 2014, as this is the only way to provide tailor-made responses to local and regional challenges. it is regrettable that the macroeconomic conditionality has not been removed from the text of the legislation in the interinstitutional negotiations. the extension of macroeconomic conditionality to items beyond the cohesion fund is fundamentally problematic because it penalizes municipalities, enterprises, individuals for inappropriate economic policy measures by the central government; it sanctions cohesion policy for reasons entirely independent of it; and it does not ensure equal treatment, since different member states benefit from these resources to different degrees. as regards the social fund, i would point out that the esf is by no means the only and exclusive fund which helps to combat unemployment. there are many other factors contributing to the rise in unemployment, such as infrastructure factors, which the european regional development fund is most effective in helping to develop. it is therefore essential to ensure flexibility for member states, as 23.1% is only a minimum, and member states can spend more on the objectives of the social fund if they see the need.
in writing. − i supported the report because i believe it is important that the common funds continue to be seen as the structural and investment instruments that will most effectively and efficiently shape europe's development direction beyond 2013. the importance of cohesion policy after 2013 will not change, only its direction will change somewhat: beyond catch-up and the coordination of regions of similar quality, there will be a greater emphasis in the future on ensuring lasting economic recovery and competitiveness. however, to achieve this, it will remain essential that there is maximum synergy between the different funds (horizon 2020, cosme, life, erasmus for all). however, it is also important to further simplify the implementation rules and to accurately measure the quality and performance of the supported projects.
in writing. − i would like to welcome this report on the common provisions governing eu funds, which introduces important amendments to the commission’s proposal, in particular for ensuring the contribution of the european structural and investment funds to the unions europe 2020 strategy, arrangements to address the key territorial challenges and to promote the integrated use of the european structural and investment funds. i welcome the explicit reference that special attention should be paid to rural areas and that the implementation of the programme should take into account the overall aim of reducing administrative burden for bodies involved in the management and control of the programmes. it is very important to give local and regional authorities and bodies representing civil society greater rights of participation in planning and implementation and maybe the most significant amendment states that the solutions supported by funds should be integrated, multi-sectoral and multi-dimensional, and it should be possible for the esi funds to be combined into integrated packages that are tailor-made to fit the specific territorial needs. the pre-financing payment is also to be welcomed, which enables member states to provide ex ante support to beneficiaries from the start of the implementation.
in writing. − a large, complex report of almost a thousand pages containing common provisions for the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund of the common strategic framework for the period 2014-2020. on behalf of the regional development committee, the text was practically rewritten in its entirety, with the result that its adoption nullifies all other amendments. the regional development committee's values of putting local development, local economy first are close to ours, so i only supported the report by adopting amendment 488. the amendments to the eul/ngl improve social sensitivity, so they are also acceptable to me.
in writing. − i think it is important to maintain the minimum share of the european social fund at 23.1% and not to increase this to 25%. from a procedural point of view, such an attempt would mean the reopening of interinstitutional negotiations, which should not be our aim. we must also bear in mind that the european social fund is by no means the only and exclusive fund to help combat unemployment. there are many factors that contribute to the increase in unemployment, so it is wrong to act on the belief that unemployment can be reduced by simply providing more training. at least as important are the infrastructural factors, to the development of which the european regional development fund contributes most effectively. it is therefore essential to ensure flexibility for member states, as 23.1% is only a minimum value, and member states can spend more on the objectives of the social fund if they consider it necessary.
in writing. − the structural challenges that the eu faces have been compounded by the recent economic and financial crisis, which has resulted in increased levels of unemployment, hitting in particular young people and other vulnerable groups. it is vital therefore to enable the esf to promote sustainable job-creation and support labour mobility, invest in education, skills and life-long learning, promote social inclusion, foster equal opportunities and combat inequality and poverty as well as foster eliminating all forms of discrimination. i hope that the new regulations for the 2014-2020 programming period will make the european social fund more effective in benefiting disadvantaged groups, in particular the long-term unemployed and those systematically excluded from the labour market, such as ethnic minorities, marginalised communities and people facing social exclusion or at the risk of poverty. the sustainable labour market integration of young people, who are not in employment, education or training, is also very important, in particular for young members of marginalised communities, such as young roma. the esf should furthermore provide adequate participation and access for stakeholder non-governmental organisations to actions and the preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of programmes, particularly for those ngos that represent or advocate beneficiaries of such programmes.
in writing. − the report sets out guidelines for the european social fund (esf) for the period 2014-2020. the european social fund, established by the treaty of rome in 1957, is the european union's main financial instrument for promoting employment. the commission proposal for the esf has four main objectives: (1) to stimulate employment and labour mobility; (2) to invest in education, skills and lifelong learning; (3) to strengthen social inclusion and the fight against poverty; and (4) to increase institutional capacity and improve the efficiency of public administration. the committee on employment and social affairs has put forward proposals which, in contrast to the original commission document, strengthen the social character of the fund and thus help to concentrate resources on the poorest regions, and i therefore voted in favour of these amendments.
in writing. − i welcome mr olbrycht's report, which calls for better exploitation of the synergies of the horizon 2020 framework programme, better consideration of the needs of regions facing demographic challenges, support for businesses in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy, and the creation of infrastructure accessible to all.
in writing. − i would like to welcome the initiative to allocate at least 5% of the erdf resources allocated at national level under the investment for growth and jobs goal to integrated actions for sustainable urban development as well as the future establishment of an urban development network to promote capacity-building, networking and exchange of experience at union level between urban authorities responsible for implementing sustainable urban development strategies and innovative actions in the field of sustainable urban development. social and economic developments in urban areas largely influence its surrounding areas and bear proportionally more of the direct or indirect costs of economic productivity, such as congestion, pollution, spatial segregation or criminality. cities are also unevenly affected by social imbalances, such as unemployment, social exclusion and polarisation. it is necessary therefore to assist urban areas in developing their basic physical infrastructure as a precondition for growth and to exploit their potential contribution to economic growth as well as to strengthen the links between urban and rural areas with a view to promoting inclusive development.
in writing. − the report is on the use of the european regional development fund (erdf). the erdf aims to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the european union by reducing disparities between regions. we are concerned about getting back a little bit of the money that the eu is taking from us, so i voted for the amendments and the whole thing. knowing that the system itself is sick, we could represent our national interests much more effectively in an autonomous framework, more independent than the current union.
in writing. − european territorial cooperation is one of the main pillars of the eu's regional policy and, accordingly, parliament has fought to ensure that this policy area receives funding commensurate with its importance. i am pleased that transnational cooperation also provides support for macro-regional strategies, which are increasingly embracing more regions of the union. the number of authorities involved in enforcement has been reduced and their roles and responsibilities have been clarified.
in writing. − the report deals with the relationship between the european regional development fund (erdf) and european territorial cooperation and identifies what is eligible for erdf resources. these are: cross-border cooperation between associated regions; transnational cooperation covering larger areas involving national, regional and local authorities; cooperation between regions; identification and dissemination of good practice among partners within the union. the erdf should support territorial cooperation, and the fund should contribute to reducing disparities between levels of development, reducing unemployment, promoting information technology and transport links, etc. positive goals, that's why i voted for it.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the cohesion fund has been extended to support energy efficiency and renewable energy in the housing sector from 2014. in the area of investment priorities, the fund shall pay particular attention to environmental issues. i consider it important that the amounts to be allocated from the cohesion fund to the european network financing facility should not adversely affect the member states most in need of support, which are the main beneficiaries of the cohesion fund.
in writing. − the report is an amendment to the commission's earlier proposal for the cohesion fund. this means, for example, that the aid is directed towards the following objectives: (a) low-carbon economy; (b) adaptation to climate change; (c) protection of the environment and promotion of resource efficiency; (d) sustainable transport; (e) improvement of institutional capacity and efficient public administration. it is an important area for us because the cohesion fund provides support to countries whose per capita gross national income (gni) is less than 90% of the eu27 average. we can access eu funds, so i voted for the report. of course, it would be much better to use the money from our own revenues for what we want, rather than getting a little something back from the eu and labelling it.
in writing. − the draft regulation on the european territorial association contains a number of provisions to promote transparency, simplification and greater efficiency. it is of particular importance that regions and institutions from non-member countries can now become members of the grouping, thus making the egtcs even more effective.
in writing. − the report is an amendment to regulation (ec) no 1082/2006 of the european parliament and of the council on the european grouping of territorial cooperation (egtc). different types of regional associations may be established within the limits of competences under national law in order to overcome obstacles to territorial cooperation. the regulations are acceptable to our country because they provide a framework for international cooperation that hungary can also take advantage of in the carpathian basin, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider it a realistic aspiration to increase the participation of women in management positions. we need to create the conditions now to facilitate this. in my view, the problem is a hereditary condition that makes it very difficult for women to reconcile their careers and their private lives. however, there is a great deal of research on this subject which shows that mixed groups perform better and that women's participation has a positive impact on working conditions. quotas may not be the best solution, but i think that the application of quotas now may provide a temporary help in remedying this problem. it is an optimal solution, since it requires a broad social and thought transformation, and this will certainly accelerate this process. in order to catch up with the european union in this area, it is worth following the scandinavian example of taking decisive action, of taking stronger action in the area of regulation.
in writing. the european parliament voted today in plenary on the legislative package on the future of the common agricultural policy. at the start of the reform negotiations, many wanted to abolish the cap and the european system of agricultural subsidies. among them was ferenc gyurcsány, the hungarian socialist prime minister, who declared that farmers did not need support. on the other hand, the hungarian government managed to get a decision to maintain agricultural subsidies during the hungarian presidency of the eu. today's vote has made it clear that the cap has a future. hungary's particular success is that we have not only maintained but even increased the amount of agricultural subsidies in our country: in the next seven years, hungarian farmers can receive 20% more subsidies than in the previous seven years.
in writing. − the revision of the common agricultural policy has produced positive results for hungary, which is why i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement. it is an important result for our country that agricultural subsidies will increase by 20% and that the discrimination against hungarian farmers in the new member state will be eliminated in terms of direct payments, so that our producers will receive 100% of the subsidies as well as the producers of the old member states. we also have successfully maintained the most important market regulations. instead of the planned date of 2015, the sugar quota can be maintained until 2017, thus ensuring the operation of the only remaining sugar factory, the plant in kaposi. it is an important step forward that the isoglucose quota of our country can be increased by 30 thousand tons and that the restrictions on vine planting, which protect the less competitive hungarian producers, will remain in force until 2030.
in writing. − the proposal concerns the financing, management and monitoring of the community's agricultural policy (cap). the cap is set to achieve the following objectives: (1) sustainable food production; (2) sustainable management of natural resources and action against climate change; and (3) balanced territorial development. the first pillar of the cap is direct payments and market measures providing basic income support to eu farmers on an annual basis, as well as support in the event of specific market disturbances, and the second pillar is rural development, for which member states draw up and co-finance multiannual programmes under a common framework. although the bureaucracy may increase, our country will receive a significant amount of money, so i voted for the bill. but we must protect our land, we can do it, we just have to want to.
in writing. − this report aims to create the conditions for the provision of correct information on investment products. it was created because it was clear that the banks and investment funds that offered the product were deceiving the public. moreover, retail investors do not have the knowledge and the means to protect their own interests. this is a late and inadequate measure because it would prevent banks from speculating on deposited savings, which would require a separation of commercial and investment banking, as was the case before financial liberalisation. but i had to vote for it because it's still a step forward in protecting the public from the banks.
in writing. − this report is a basic document for rural development stakeholders for the next 7 years and can also be a great reference manual for each issue that arises. the cap rural development pillar is based on six priorities in agriculture, forestry and food processing: 1. promoting knowledge transfer and innovation; 2. increasing competitiveness; 3. promoting food chain organisation and risk management; 4. restoring, preserving and improving the state of ecosystems; 5. promoting resource efficiency and moving towards a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy; 6. promoting social inclusion, poverty reduction and supporting economic development in rural areas. i voted for it because it's the way to get aid to my country. if you're gonna run in a bag, at least make that bag bigger.
in writing. − the report is designed to regulate the system of area-based direct payments which is vital for our farmers in the present circumstances. the main lines of payments were already set out last year by the ep, the commission and the council. this report is the final state in the sense that the full financial framework was only adopted last week at the eu summit. as the greens and the gue/ngl have also tabled amendments to the position of small producers, i did not support the commission's proposal for a uniform structure. of the two groups' amendments, i voted for the one that gives farmers with less than 5 hectares more of a benefit. it is not the eu's fault that in our country the land and thus most of the subsidies have been in the hands of landowners and foreigners. this is the fault of the governments of all times.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the house of commons, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole house of commons during the votes in plenary. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so it happens that the position of the hungarian fidesz-kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. − on 21 may 2013, the commission initiated an amendment to the cohesion policy act 2007-13. this proposal included, on the one hand, the extension of the n+3 rule for romania and slovakia, in line with point 87 of the february european council conclusions, and, on the other hand, it would have extended the deadline for the validity of the top-up by removing the deadline of 31 december 2013 and extending the possibility of top-up beyond 2013 for programme countries, but only for those still under the programme. the commission's proposal to abolish the top-up deadline has no precedent in the eit conclusions. portugal indicated that it considered that the top-up should be extended to the period after the loss of programme country status and the commission presented a drafting proposal whereby the preamble states that the top-up only applies to member states under both the current and the next financial framework and proposed a restriction in the drafting of the legislative part that it should be a programme country at the time of entry into force of the amending regulation. the council's position reflects that of the commission. however, this approach is discriminatory, as confirmed by the council's legal service. the discrimination between member states on the basis of whether they withdrew from the programme before or after the entry into force of this regulation is to be criticised. the commission notes that the capital injections were granted in the form of a capital increase of eur [...] million. the adopted amendments do not follow the council's common position, so the text adopted by the committee does not exclude member states which are no longer in the status of programme countries from the possibility of extending the top-up. in the course of the tripartite discussions i tried to draw attention to the problem of discrimination, but the socialist and liberal shadow rapporteurs were of the opinion that we should accept the council's position without further ado and give up the mandate of the committee. it is regrettable that the people's party's position has also been to accept the council's position without amendments (which, i stress, was also considered discriminatory by the council's own legal service), thus reducing the role of parliament to that of an approving body. the intention to speed up the process resulted in a written trialogue, a rapidly convened extraordinary committee meeting and a plenary vote approving the council's position. there would have been no procedural problem if we had agreed on a normal trialogue, voted on the issue at the november committee meeting and brought it before the plenary in december, and the amendment could have entered into force in january. the result is that the original council position was essentially approved by the committee and a discriminatory text was voted by parliament, which contains the possibility of an appeal procedure for breach of equal treatment in relation to the amendment of legislation.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the house of commons, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole house of commons during the votes in plenary. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so sometimes the position of the hungarian fidesz/kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the house of commons, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole house of commons during the votes in plenary. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity with decisive political weight, based on common european values, traditions and culture. however, the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so sometimes the position of the hungarian fidesz/kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order to avoid any contradiction with my duties as vice-president, i shall not take part in the vote directly in cases where the group votes differently from the hungarian members in the roll-call votes. i do not press the ballot button, but i do raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that we had previously agreed on.
the following joint debate is scheduled on the following reports: report by teresa riera madurell, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the framework programme for research and innovation (horizon 2020) (com (2011) 0809 c7-0466/2011 2011/0401 (cod)) (a7-0427/2012), and report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the rules for participation and dissemination in the horizon 2020 programme (com (2011) 0810 c7-0465/2011 2011/0399 (cod)) (a7-0428/2012), and report by maria graça carra, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the strategic plan for innovation and technology (horizon 2020) (cod) (com (2011) 0704/2011)), and report by philippe c.d. on the implementation of the strategic plan for innovation and technology (cod) (com (2011) 0387-072228) and c7-04-0440/2011), and report by philippe c.d.d.d.
i should like to thank you, madam commissioner, for mentioning the names of the shadow rapporteurs as well. this is not customary, but their work is extremely important and usually not known by the public, so i am very thankful to you on their behalf.
without r & d, there is no progress, no competitiveness, no upward mobility and no future. r & d resources can be used more effectively to respond to major societal objectives at eu level, and that is a good thing. however, it is regrettable that member states were short of funds compared to other chapters. even more regrettable, they do this because they lose political influence in the allocation of r&d resources to other chapters. my fellow members of parliament! we must be very careful in the future to ensure that the scarce resources are sufficient, in particular so that the large projects, which are already very important, are not affected, so that the resources needed for the iter and satellite programmes do not cut short the projects in horizon 2020. we must pay very close attention to this in the coming period and the commission must, as it has done so far, be very efficient in the management of its resources. i wish you every success and the cooperation of this parliament.
the budget of horizon 2020 has grown despite the crisis, which is very commendable, as €70 billion can be spent on various purposes. i think that we will indeed be able to run the largest research programme in existence today, which will help to strengthen competitiveness, create jobs and hopefully in the future help to solve one of our biggest problems, the problem of youth unemployment. but to use it effectively, we have a lot of work to do. i welcome the fact that the presentation, the report, particularly emphasises the importance of simplification, because it is very important that the rules for awarding the prize be simplified. reduce the cost and duration of bureaucracy. this will enable research centres and businesses to access resources more quickly, all of which will help to strengthen competitiveness. if we succeed in this programme, europe will recover more quickly from the crisis and we will be equal partners in the world market for asia and america.
in the air. research and development and innovation are strategically important for european economic growth, international competitiveness and employment. the european union has traditionally had a strong scientific and technological base, but competition in research and development is also increasingly being driven by third countries. horizon 2020 will free up significant untapped resources by integrating the least developed regions, simplifying administration and eliminating parallel programmes. the horizon 2020 programme is a comprehensive package of measures, so allow me to highlight three aspects of the proposals. first of all, i consider it a great step forward for the newly joined countries that horizon 2020 has earmarked budgetary resources to catch up with the less developed regions. for example, the countries of central and eastern europe have so far had little success in applying for eu research funding due to their poorly developed research infrastructures. it is encouraging that the new package of measures seeks to address this shortcoming by encouraging the involvement of countries with low research activity in consortia, reducing the gap in researchers' salaries and improving research infrastructure through a more efficient use of cohesion funds. secondly, it is a recognition for hungary that the european institute of innovation and technology in budapest will have a strengthened role in the future integration of higher education, research and development and innovation in the eu. thirdly, the good news for hungarian applicants is that the simplified rules for participation and funding will significantly reduce the administrative cost of participating in the programme and the time taken to assess applications.
the cosme program was threatened by two things. the first is that the sum has been reduced in the course of the negotiations and we are beyond that, and the second is that the member states will use it instead of their own resources. we must do everything we can, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that the money in the cosme programme really does add european value across borders and does not replace the work that has not been done by the member states. what my colleagues have said here is 90% criticism of their own governments and not of the cosme programme. the cosme programme should be used for cross-border objectives that cannot be solved within a member state alone, that serve innovation, added value, growth, progress or that encourage specific target groups, such as young people, to find their potential more than they do now. anything else, congressmen, you can discuss with your own government at home.
we are talking about the largest employers in the eu member states, as smes create and maintain the most jobs across europe. in my country, hungary, almost 70% of the workforce is employed in this sector, and i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament has launched the cosme programme, which will provide support for small and medium-sized enterprises with a budget of two billion euro, as a continuation of previous programmes, but now specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises. let me say that the national member states will also have a major part to play in improving competitiveness. hungary, the hungarian government, is setting a great example for europe, as it has recently eased the administrative burden on businesses, reduced corporate income tax to 10%, and introduced a 2.5% forint credit for businesses to the tune of almost eur 7 billion, from which they can finance investments and redeem their previously unfavourable loans. so i think that the national member states should also take part in this programme, and then the cosme programme launched by the union can also be successful.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has delivered its opinion. - first of all, i'd like to congratulate the speakers, they did an excellent job. i would like to express my opinion as the rapporteur of the imco committee. out of this focus, improving the functioning of the internal market for defence products has been a priority for me. i think with the new kind of defense procurement techniques, we can achieve that goal in a very good way. i believe that the openness of this market must be improved and increased, but, as mr rübig said, alongside this openness, we must also involve smes by increasing competitiveness. i think i touched on two areas where smes can be improved, namely the elimination or reduction of regulatory opacity and the use of common standards in this area. however, i believe that this area is ripe for creating the conditions and creating a european defence technology base that is capable of operating without any distortive compensation. i agree with my colleagues that, on the basis of the reports, i propose that we have a joint position, an opinion before the december summit, which the council can take into account.
in the air. i agree with the overall conclusions of the report. it provides a balanced and comprehensive overview of the processes that have shaped the common security and defence policy (csdp) in recent times. the debate is timely, given that the european council's december agenda includes defence policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms. the guidelines may take various forms, but the preliminary report of the high representative clearly outlines that the framework for the strategic review and implementation of the cfsp remains the european security strategy. it should be stressed that strengthening and harmonising eu-nato relations is of paramount importance for capacity building, beyond the political objectives of cooperation, in particular with a view to avoiding parallels. in the context of the development of military command and control structures, the establishment of a civilian-military integrated operational centre may be justified on defence policy grounds instead of a military operational command without significant added value.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, congratulations to the performer. there's a hungarian saying that friendship is based on close reckoning. so it's with this collaboration, we want to talk about accurate and close accounting. we all remember and witness the terrible damage done by misleading, false, misleading statistics that have caused economic and political turmoil in the past. i therefore consider it important and essential that we have a system of statistical accounts, together with a system of institutions, data collection and operations, which provides a credible and adequate basis for political decisions and economic strategy. this report not only deals with data collection but also with the institutional system, and in fact focuses on it. i think it is important that the heads of the national statistical offices are appointed independently by the parliaments. this is the case in my country, hungary, where the head of the statistical office is appointed for six years, in succession to political cycles. i would like to say a few words about the surveillance system and how important it is, but i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that no surveillance system should be too expansive, go beyond the legal boundaries or interfere with the work of the national statistical offices. however, it is useful to give advice or, if appropriate, make recommendations. officer, please. i too think it is worth considering, precisely in the public interest, to allow the director-general of eurostat, or our committee, the econ committee, or the democratically elected representatives of the european parliament, to be heard, especially in the field of statistics, the compilation of new statistics or in the case of important matters. that's a total of 90 million in the budget and 500,000 employees. this is about credibility, about the credibility of policy. (the intervener agrees to answer a question by way of a question mark (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. - mr. speaker, i have to ask you to excuse me. it's likely that you misunderstood what i said, and even what's in the report, and even what the officer said. what i was talking about is the question of credibility, what you were talking about is the question of appointment. for me, the content of the statistics is more important than how many women there might be in a leadership role. the work of the profession is also important, above all, in statistics. that is why i mentioned that i think it is important to hear from the director-general of eurostat on a case-by-case basis about what kind of systemic changes he wants to make to statistics, in terms of content, in terms of the method of data collection. accept this, this is a collaboration, this is a cooperation. i trust the officer understood that.
there is a great need for authentic, objective and reliable statistical data for european decision-makers, businesses and citizens alike. the negative events of recent years, mainly due to the lack of national budgets and the falsification of data on the size of public debts, have significantly reduced confidence in european statistics. the heads of government of some member states, unfortunately led by the former hungarian prime minister, the socialist ferenc gyurcsány, kept churchill's words in mind. they only believed in the statistics they had falsified themselves. this is unacceptable. we must do everything we can to restore confidence in the data of the european and national statistical offices. let me quote the nobel prize-winning politician, who said that a good speech should be like a woman's skirt: long enough to cover the subject, but short enough to arouse interest.
on behalf of the ppe group. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i welcome both the oral question and the motion for a resolution on the social dimension of economic and monetary union. it is an important and at the same time controversial issue in many respects. the crisis is not over yet, unemployment affects some 26 million people and that 23% unemployment rate does put a lot of work on our shoulders. the question is whether the european union should deal with this at european level or whether it is the responsibility of the member states. we believe that the union currently has neither the money nor the legal capacity to pursue a social policy at european level, and that the debate remains open. is there a need for a european social policy or for better coordination and coordination of social policies in individual nations, for the exchange of good practices, for the dissemination of ideas, proposals and guidelines? so we think the scoreboard, the social scoreboard, is a good idea. it helps us to understand each other better and it helps us to compare the social situation of different countries better, but we cannot accept and we do not agree to the idea of automatic stabilisers, binding standards in the social sphere, such as financial governance and financial union. this is currently contrary to the basic treaty, and a minimum contract would have to be amended to do so. my group also opposes the introduction of unemployment benefits at eu level. this often causes difficulties even within individual member states, so i think that this is not a reality at the moment. and by the way, thank you for your attention and we encourage the social partners to be more involved.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by mr jutta haug, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the establishment of the programme for the environment and climate action (life) (com ((2011) 0874 c7-0498/2011 2011/0428 ((cod)) (a7-0294/2012)
between 2014 and 2020, the life programme will have a budget of eur 3,4 billion, an increase of one third compared to the previous mff period. this is particularly justified when budget cuts have been made in many areas to save money. the programme is new in that it strengthens integrated projects aimed at mobilising other eu funds, strengthens the allocation of funds and thus increases the number and quality of eligible programmes. it is of paramount importance for hungary that the co-financing ratio should be as high as possible, and i am therefore pleased that the council, the presidency, is also of this opinion. i'm confident that the final agreement will remain at the co-sponsor level of 60 and 75%, respectively. i also think it is very important to maintain the national frameworks, as they have a significant incentive role. preserving our natural and environmental values is a key issue for our future. remember, the world is a market, everything is for sale, but there are things that are eternal and not for sale.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 21 november 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the report by mr theodor dumitru stolojan, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the tax action programme (com ((2012) 0465 c7-0242/2012 2011/0341b ((cod)) (a7-0399/2012)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 21 november 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in the air. congratulations to my colleague stolojan on his report, because he did a great job! i have already had the opportunity to speak yesterday in connection with the report on european statistics, about the importance of coordinating and controlling the coordination and control of statistical data and the operation of the national agencies, both at national and european level, in conjunction with the rules laid down jointly. now, in the context of this report, we can be pleased that it is, at the material level, linked to the financial surveillance and economic policy files, and aims at better cooperation between national tax authorities, which includes not only more efficient exchange of information between national tax authorities, but also, for example, joint training of tax officials. in this context, it is welcome that the text has been incorporated, which states that the commission and the member states involved in tax programmes should jointly develop an evaluation system of qualitative and quantitative indicators, on the basis of which the tax programmes can be assessed and evaluated. the report before us, although technical at first glance, is of even greater importance: it concerns some eur 235 million from the next multiannual financial framework, and it is about the fact that the functioning of the internal market can be further strengthened in terms of tax cooperation, and that this report can also contribute to the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and double taxation throughout europe! on the basis of all the above, i can only support the report.
the following is the summary of the court of auditors' annual report for 2012:
in writing. − i obviously support this report, as it is a very thorough, detailed and precise piece of material, which has placed european union basic research within the framework of a complete innovation chain from the market (funding) strategy to the market, creating a safety net and a security against the influences that weaken or impede its validation. the report set out in detail all the arguments and reasons which justify the need for such a framework programme in the eu. europe and its citizens are demanding clear answers and adequate security to global challenges, the promotion of the competitiveness of european industries, research on high technology, a stronger emphasis on multidisciplinarity, a broad definition of innovation policies and simplification of the programme. this requirement was met by the report.
in writing. − i believe that security-related research is of fundamental importance to the security and defence sector. these will form an integral part of the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programmes for the period 2014-2020. as such programmes are the basis for the competitiveness and dynamism of the european defence industry, i support this question with a positive vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the implementation of horizon 2020 is a consistent indicator of the direction in which european multi-track innovation can move. this requires a sufficient financial backing for the programme, which can be achieved by allocating eur 100 billion. the commission is also pleased with the professional approach adopted in the section of the proposal which specifically stresses that eu funding for research and innovation should be geared towards a significant increase in private investment, while ensuring that eu funding remains proportionate. i particularly welcome the proposal to set a six-month deadline for industrial players enterprises and highly innovative smes to grant grants, and the related concept of open access and the provision of co-financing.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's proposal for rules on participation and dissemination in horizon 2020 as an important step forward. i think it is important within the programme to define fewer requirements for working time recording and to adopt more widely the accounting practices followed by beneficiaries. however, i would also point out that the programme does not provide for, inter alia, the possibility of recovering indirect costs on the basis of actual costs and that the uniform funding rate does not take into account the specific cost structures of the different participants.
in writing. − the report welcomes the new horizon 2020 regulations as a step forward and the desire to encourage more in-depth consultation with the research and innovation community. the rules should strike a balance between the four key principles of simplification, accountability, flexibility and reliability. from an economic point of view, the financing of activities close to the market should follow a clearly defined concept. union funding for research and innovation should aim to significantly increase private investment. the union funding shall be proportionate and shall not lead to market distortion. the program provides opportunities for domestic universities, institutes and businesses, which is why i voted for the material.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the eit is a real breakthrough, adding a well-developed educational dimension to the eu's research and innovation policy. although an educational, technological and innovation institution in its own right, the eit should not be seen as a competitor to universities and research centres, but rather as a tool for these institutions to cooperate more effectively, to exchange ideas and experience on a continuous basis and to develop different types of joint projects. i particularly like the proposal for a solution for the location and allocation of resources, which can ensure the legitimacy and independence of the institute, but also its seriousness and its value as such.
in writing. − i see that europe is still not fully out of the crisis, so we need to find ways of developing our capacity for innovation. in the context of horizon 2020, the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) is designed to involve public and private sector as well as academic partners in the innovation process. i'm voting yes on this.
in writing. − the report is about the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). there is agreement that the eit is a key instrument for the union's technology and innovation policy, but certain changes need to be made to better achieve its important objectives. one of these is to strengthen the education sector, to further develop master and doctoral training programmes. two decades ago, we were very good at all of these things, but now our education system is in tatters, our scientists are out of the country, our funding is a disaster. that's why i voted for the report, because it could provide a springboard for the domestic intelligentsia, whom we welcome back and bring back if it's up to us.
in writing. − i welcome the report's commitment to a firm and concrete solution, which will finally bring to fruition the first eu attempt to integrate the three sides of the knowledge triangle (i.e. higher education, research and innovation). the €3 billion budget, supported by the commission and the european parliament, and the reasonably timed release and creation of three new kics are a good way for the eu to pool its efforts to find and implement innovative solutions and to promote entrepreneurship.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology's strategic innovation plan to have the eit's new headquarters in strasbourg. this would immediately attract the attention of the world and europe. and it was seen by european citizens, business and our global partners as an important symbol of the new vision the eu wants to deliver over the next seven years: to focus its attention and commitment on more effective innovation policy. maintaining such a partnership could prove to be of strategic importance from both a technological and economic point of view. such revenues may enable the eit to finance new kics from its budget or contribute to the development of other education projects. that is why i am voting in favour of this question.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme to support the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) (2014-2020). the global competitiveness of european small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) is hampered by market, policy and institutional weaknesses. as a result, european smes are less productive and grow more slowly than their competitors in other parts of the world, and are less able to adapt to change than european large companies. the european union has recognised the importance of smes, and cosme will help them with horizon 2020 instead of the current competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european union launching a business development package of over eur 2 billion in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework as a continuation of previous programmes. the new support programme will boost entrepreneurship, improve the financing environment and increase employment by making it easier and faster to set up a business, facilitating entry into international markets and encouraging young entrepreneurs to set up a business. i consider that national measures are just as important as the eu programme. i consider the hungarian provisions to be exemplary, as in our country the administrative burden on companies and the corporate income tax have been significantly reduced. the hungarian national bank's forint loan programme, which was launched specifically to support small and medium-sized enterprises, has also been a great success.
in writing. − almost three quarters of all jobs in the european union are provided by small and medium enterprises and, furthermore, 85 % of newly established work places between 2002 and 2010 were created by this sector. it can be clearly seen that not only do smes play a key role in the european economy but enhancing their competitiveness and helping them engage more people may also vitally contribute to the recovery from the economic crisis and may reset the eu economy on a trajectory of growth. the union should develop and launch tailor-made programmes in order to boost the entrepreneurial potential of eu citizens, especially targeting vulnerable groups excluded from the labour market, for whom self-employment as an alternative may provide a way out of poverty and marginalisation. in this regard, i would like to welcome the commission’s successfully implemented plan to reduce the administrative burdens by 25 % this year.
in writing. − the current hungarian government only supports domestic enterprises in words, in deeds it favors multi-companies with huge tax breaks, and oppresses small ones with taxes and other means. there are other problems with the global competitiveness of smes, but none of this magnitude. market, policy and institutional weaknesses such as lack of access to finance and markets and regulatory burdens are causing problems. as a result, european smes are less productive and grow more slowly than their competitors in other parts of the world, and they are less able to adapt to change than european large companies. the eu supports businesses through a number of programmes, namely cip, eip and, from 2014, cosme. so, within the framework of eu programmes, opportunities are also opening up for our domestic companies, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the report could be the self-definition of european research and innovation, as it sets a mirror by acknowledging that europe has lost a lot of its leadership in recent years. it presents europe's 'strengths' and 'weaknesses' in a very definitive and distinctive way, identifying them and providing guidance on how to correct them. in this context, i particularly welcome the proposal in that it sees the solution to so-called 'weaknesses' as, for example, a lack of investment in the knowledge base, or improvements in the lack of framework conditions and bureaucracy, or the effective integration of the contributions of a number of other actors, in addition to parliament's consent. it is precisely this horizontal distinction that makes horizon 2020 more than a simple funding programme that succeeds in achieving a beneficial structural impact on european research organisation.
in writing. − horizon 2020 reinforces europe's leadership in an environment where europe has lost significant ground in recent years. the aim of this programme is to identify europe's strengths and identify the challenges that need to be addressed by mapping out europe's weaknesses. i would like to emphasise in the programme the support for the participation of women and young people in the various projects, and therefore i am voting in favour of this issue.
in writing. − this report is based on a number of parliamentary papers and reports. the proposal represents real progress and is built around four main elements: 1) excellence as one of the driving forces of horizon 2020, 2) building synergies between horizon 2020 and the structural funds, 3) the competitiveness of european industry, 4) issues such as scientific coordination and leadership in each of the thematic areas of horizon 2020. the next horizon 2020 programme will reinforce europe's leadership, but also include identifying and addressing europe's weaknesses. it is certainly a way forward within the present political and economic framework, and i voted in favour of it. of course, for our country, a much better alternative would be to participate in a multi-faceted cooperation
in writing. − the european parliament voted today on the report on european statistics, which focuses on the functioning of the european statistical offices. the document also deals with ensuring professional independence, the availability of resources, guaranteeing strict supervision and applying sanctions in the event of non-compliance with quality standards. i voted in favour of the report because it increases citizens' trust in the eu institutions through stronger eu surveillance and more reliable data.
in writing. − i find this report very welcome and good, as it not only addresses the issue of data collection and service, but also focuses on the functioning of the national statistical offices and provides a framework for creating a culture of accountability across europe. i agree that europe needs a monitoring system that makes statistics quickly and effectively auditable. however, the checks must be justified and must not exceed their scope. they may not therefore interfere with the tasks falling within the competence of the national authority, but may only assist it by giving advice or making recommendations. the report mentions that where a national authority is guilty of providing seriously misleading data, certain sanctions should also be introduced and applied in order to ensure that the quality of statistical reporting is not compromised. i myself agree with this and even suggested in the report, as a separate amendment, that the heads of the national statistical offices should be independent in the performance of their duties and should refrain from incompatible activities, the failure of which will result in immediate suspension and future personal liability. i also think it important to stress that the selection of managers should be on a purely professional basis, free from any politics, and that the recruitment, transfer and dismissal procedures for them should be transparent and also based solely on professional criteria.
in writing. − this programme aiming at the promotion of a high level of quality and sustainable employment, as well as improving working conditions and enhancing the employment and educational situation of young people is responding to maybe the greatest challenge facing the eu. i support the amendment of the title and the consequent extension of the regulation so that it covers social progress as well, which is an unmissable prerequisite for sustainable and inclusive growth. i agree that the programme should explicitly refer to the objectives of the fight against poverty and social exclusion, finding a first job, access to a high level of quality employment, guaranteeing adequate social protection and access to health care for vulnerable people as well as improving working conditions, thereby contributing to social progress. the programme may foster the achievement of these goals through an effective and synergic implementation of all its four axes. the microfinance and social entrepreneurship axis, will hopefully not only help the existing microenterprises and social enterprises, but will also promote access to, and increase the availability of, micro-financing for business start-ups, especially with regard to unemployed, socially excluded and other vulnerable people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, as it provides for better cooperation between national tax authorities, joint action and, to some extent, joint training of tax officials. in this way, it promotes and integrates with other union policies to avoid tax evasion, tax fraud and double taxation. although the resources of the programme (fiscalis 2020) are limited, i believe that it is worth considering extending the programme to candidate and acceding countries. the fiscalis 2020 programme is highly desirable as it aims to strengthen the internal market by better harmonising and improving the functioning of national tax systems.
in writing. − i consider this report to be of great importance and i have supported it, as it does not depart in any way from the original solvency ii directive, but intends to amend its scope and the date of transposition in order to give member states sufficient time to fully transpose the directive. this new date is amended to 31 december 2014, while maintaining the modern and risk-based system for the full review of european insurance undertakings.
in writing. − as chief whip, my duty is to ensure the voting discipline of the people's party group, which is reflected in the fact that i am the one who sets the position for the whole people's party group during the plenary votes. the aim of the epp is to create a european unity based on common european values and traditions, with a decisive political weight. however, the hungarian people's party group is actively working to promote the interests of our country, and we represent our own national interests in the european parliament, so sometimes the position of the hungarian fidesz/kdnp delegation differs from the people's party position. in order not to contradict myself in my duty as vice-president, i did not participate directly in the vote on the doha development agenda when the group voted differently from the hungarian members in the nominal votes. i did not press the ballot button, but i did raise my hand to indicate to the pp group the voting position that had been agreed upon previously.
in writing. − as rapporteur for the imco committee, my first priority was to improve the functioning of the internal market for defence products. i believe that our proposals for new types of defence procurement techniques will help to achieve this objective. in my view, the openness and competitiveness of eu defence markets must also be enhanced by taking into account specific features such as security of supply and information. i voted in favour of the report. i believe that the recommendations contained in it will reduce the confusion of existing regulations in the field of defence and will increase competition and transparency, thus helping smes to find and bid for subcontracting contracts.
author. − the presumption of innocence and the right to a fair trial are the most fundamental human rights in the world, and eu citizens el presidente tóásó and mario tadic have been arbitrarily detained in bolivia for more than 4 years, in violation of international human rights standards respectively. bolivia even ignored its own laws regarding the maximum time that can be spent in pretrial detention. i therefore call on the bolivian authorities to respect the fundamental human rights of the president of toás, to release him, to conduct an independent investigation and a fair trial. this was already stated by the un working group on arbitrary detention in its 2011 opinion on the case. the european parliament sends a clear message with this resolution and calls on the union's foreign service to continue to treat the fate of these two eu citizens as a priority in its official relations with bolivia. so i ask you to vote in favor of this resolution.
we hungarians would like very much if they would not just treat our markets as their own, and not just humiliate and threaten us with goods or goods, but stand firmly by our citizens who suffer violations as eu citizens, stand by the european union. the european union has been holding a senior eu citizen in pre-trial detention for 55 months in a country where pre-trial detention can legally last up to 36 months. what can the european union achieve? what are you doing? mr. tobin, an irish citizen, who trampled two hungarian children to death, is still at large, enjoying himself. what is the union doing? i didn't say anything. patricia nyri-kovács has been held in bora bora for two years with her preschool-age child. they're not doing anything. this is the time to show muscle and strength.
, in writing. 30% of the world's oceans are overfished, and the survival of marine fish stocks is at risk. as a result, the amount of sea fish caught is steadily and significantly decreasing. the new cfp should pay much more attention to sustainable fisheries, i.e. aquaculture, and in particular freshwater fisheries. hungary has excellent capacity for freshwater fish farming. this not only contributes to food security but also creates a significant number of new jobs. it also increases biodiversity, since the lagoons provide habitat for countless species of birds and other animals. it's no coincidence that most of them are under protection. the new common fisheries policy is giving greater importance to aquaculture, and this trend should continue in the future. the eu budget should provide more financial support to the freshwater aquaculture sector in the 2014-2020 budget period than at present.
rapporteur. − madam president, the poverty and social exclusion that directly affects 80 million europeans is threatening the full range of human rights – not only economic but also social and cultural rights, including the right to an adequate standard of living, the rights to health, housing, food and education, and also civil and political rights. in addition, over the past five years we have been struggling with a long, drawn-out economic crisis with varying degrees of success. the crisis is having a disproportionate impact on the rights of specific groups of people, particularly those who are increasingly vulnerable because they already suffer from discrimination and social exclusion. fear and anxiety caused by the economic downturn have generated a spreading wave of racism and xenophobia which is further weakening the protection of the most vulnerable. first and foremost, it affects the ten million roma in europe who are practically detested in national economies and who sink deeper into poverty. after decades of scrambling from one attempt at economic crisis management to the next under successive governments, it became clear that success called for a solution that we embraced throughout the entire continent and across the political divide. realising that the situation was neither acceptable nor sustainable, the european parliament was a pioneer in demanding an eu-level response to the situation of roma which then became a reality under the hungarian presidency of the eu in the form of an eu framework for national roma inclusion strategies. but the first phase of the framework implementation has already revealed some significant flaws which i address in both my report for the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and in the resolution for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i believe that policy-makers should act in five ways to rule out the major risks which we already see: first, national strategies must be brought closer to reality. this would mean that we would have to draw – the commission has to draw – a flowchart of the eu roma inclusion process in order to clarify the state of play as regards implementation and the next steps to be taken as well as to clarify specifically the division of tasks and responsibilities among the stakeholders. at this moment we do not yet know who is responsible for the failure or the success of the roma strategy. it would further imply developing a dashboard of eu roma inclusion indicators adding outcome indicators, baselines, and numerical headline targets to national strategies. this also requires that member states allocate enough financial access to fulfil their policy commitments. in many national action plans this is missing; as is a reflection of the national roma inclusion strategies in their national budgetary policies. you need to know that we found that over the last twenty years, according to studies in several member states, only 10% of the money spent on roma projects has actually reached the roma. second, national strategies must be brought closer to the roma themselves. it means that roma organisations must be strengthened and there needs to be a proper framework consultation, not just platform-based peer learning and the sharing of experiences among policy-makers and roma organisations. also, roma ngos must be strengthened because we need authentic, independent and highly educated roma leaders who actively lead the public discourse on roma and who put community building and social acceptance at the forefront and above the interests of their sponsors. third, national strategies must better target the roma. this means taking into account the multi-dimensional and territorial aspects of poverty and launching integrated, multi-sector development programmes for the most deprived micro-regions by mobilising all available csf funds and other eu instruments because we have learned that the member states have not been using them over the past few years. fourth, national strategies must protect roma; they must go hand-in-hand with the anti-discrimination measures that the commission has already introduced and they have to be much better used. fifth, we also have to bring the balkans into this strategy. from the outset we said that we would like to see the accession countries included in this dossier from the very beginning. what we see is that the successful social and economic inclusion of the roma can only be achieved if we make sure that this risk of failure does arise.
author. − we consider this debate and the decision on roma integration to be important before the end of the parliamentary term. we also welcome the council's proposals, which in many respects emphasize the same things as our proposal. an important outcome of this cycle was the european framework strategy and the fact that each member state produced its own national strategy, but this was more or less the end of the list of positive things. national strategies have largely remained on paper. they do not formulate an action plan, they do not allocate budgetary resources to it, and in fact the use of eu funds is delayed in the member states where they would be most needed for roma integration. segregation in neighborhoods and schools persists, and in many places it is getting worse. there is a lack of political will at national level as well as at local level to promote integration programmes. it is a shame for europe that in the middle of a human rights area millions of people live in third world conditions. when roma leave their homeland, it is not only because of poverty, but also because of the growing anti-gypsyism, discrimination, hate speech and hate crimes. the old member states are no better off. exclusion, illegal expulsion, eviction is a daily occurrence. as european citizens, roma have the same right to free movement as anyone else. if we want to achieve results, we must tackle discrimination, educational and labour market disadvantages in the form of complex programmes, and create adequate housing and access to health services. democratic political parties must clearly distinguish themselves from the exclusionary, hate-mongering manifestations of the far right. the commission should also take clear steps: it should monitor whether member states have actually transposed and applied the racial equality directive, whether they respect the right to free movement and establishment, the right to non-discrimination. if not, you'll have to file a wrongful death suit. member states should seek meaningful dialogue with roma representatives and recognise the importance of roma integration with the non-roma population. they should make the national contact points institutions with real influence. they should ensure that policy decisions do not undermine the objectives of the roma strategy and that operational programmes allocated to eu funds support these objectives. it is also the responsibility of the member states to eliminate institutional discrimination. we know that the situation is bad, but we need accurate data to see where the greatest need for intervention is. data collection and monitoring cannot be left entirely to the member states. there is a need for civil monitoring, so we have proposed building capacity of roma organizations as a pilot project in next year's budget. to be able to act more effectively in the field of roma integration, the eu needs well-educated young roma intellectuals and must support their training through special programmes. it is essential that the commission's directorates-general have roma staff. in preparation for this, there should also be a roma traineeship programme in the commission. in this area, the s&d group is setting an example with its own roma trainee programme. we consider it important that erasmus plus and creative europe programmes also pay particular attention to the inclusion of roma among the beneficiaries. the esf also gives priority to poverty reduction and roma integration. only by taking all these factors into account, by coordinating our efforts and by having a clear political will at national and local level, will we be able to achieve results within a few years.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like at this stage to thank all those colleagues who have supported my work in parliament in the last nine years; we wanted to manage a complete paradigm shift by making europe understand that inclusion of the roma is very important for europe itself. we wanted to show, through the economic and human rights argument that we presented, that the successful social and economic inclusion of roma, so their figures could approach the regional average, would respond to the demographic challenge of the increasing elderly and decreasing working-age population. this could also trigger substantial economic growth in countries with significant roma populations. i turn to the questions that many people raised – usually those people who like to talk in these debates, to get some votes maybe. those colleagues who have been working on this dossier for a long time however do not just talk about it; they already know that including roma populations in european societies and economies would make sure that this would, in the meantime, mitigate the influx of their migration driven by material interest. so, i would like to highlight once again – also thanking the commission and parliament, and the hungarian presidency as they were the only ones to take this dossier over to the council – that the only answer to many of the questions talked about today is effective inclusion. not inclusion only as window-dressing, not inclusion only on paper, but real effective economic inclusion is the only win-win scenario for europeans and for european citizens who are of roma origin.
mr. president, the commissioner is here. 24 years ago on this day, a young hungarian priest was not afraid to stand up for freedom of expression, and so he triggered the events in timişoara, romania, that eventually brought down the dictatorship. for his courage, this priest, lászló tőkeş, now our colleague in the chamber of deputies, was awarded the star of romania. now they want to withdraw this award from our colleague in bucharest because they are again questioning the individual, thus the capitalist's inalienable right to free speech and expression. his personality is symbolic, so the withdrawal of his medal would indicate that the rule of law, the rule of law is weaker in romania today than the revivalists of the spirits of the past. i ask president basescu to consider carefully whether to withdraw his order of the red banner simply because he is exercising his right to free speech. i ask the commissioner for fundamental rights not to allow such a usurpation of freedom of speech, the re-nationalization of church and community property, or the deprivation of rights through the judiciary, the erosion of legal certainty in romania today.
the rapporteur. − most eu citizens believe that europe today remains exclusive, with some form of discrimination prevalent. 56% of them believe that discrimination is based on ethnicity, and 46% believe that it is also based on disability or other sexual orientation. the economic crisis has only made it worse. 55% think that inclusive policies have been relegated to the background, especially in the labour market. in contrast, a shocking 37% of people know what their rights are if they are the victim of discrimination. since the treaty of lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights has become legally binding. unfortunately, very few people know what it is and more than two thirds of the population misunderstands its scope. the fact that citizens do not know that the charter is valid only when member states transpose and apply eu law is a source of much frustration and misunderstanding. citizens continue to be uncertain about their rights, how to exercise them and what options they have in the event of violations. more and more citizens are taking advantage of crossborder opportunities and taking up a job or studying in another member state. this, however, requires that they know and be able to exercise their rights under the contracts even in such a situation. yet only 36% feel they know the extra rights that eu citizenship gives them. the fundamental rights agency regularly assesses the situation of the various fundamental rights in the union and highlights a number of shortcomings. anti-semitism, racism, homophobia, xenophobia, intolerance towards others and exclusion are on the rise in the member states, partly as a result of the economic and financial crisis. all of these issues will be addressed by the equality, rights and citizenship programme that we are voting on today. the nearly 440 million euros available over the next seven years will be enough to spend, a paltry sum in view of the scale of the problem. the programme aims to help build a more inclusive society, rejecting exclusion, incitement to hatred and all forms of discrimination. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the community resources available will help to strengthen legal awareness and contribute to the elimination of discrimination, xenophobia and all forms of violence. equality between men and women, the rights of children and persons with disabilities, and the promotion of the additional rights conferred by eu citizenship are given a lot of attention. data protection issues have come to the fore in recent months and are of particular importance in view of the data protection package to be adopted. the council's deliberations lasted almost a year, covering all three presidencies. it was not an easy task, since we had to make sure that compromises were acceptable to everyone, even within parliament. in addition to libe, five other committees submitted opinions to the report. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their work and for the constructive attitude of the commission and the presidencies. the negotiations have enlarged the scope of the objectives. at the request of the parliament, article 21 of the charter was included in the objectives, which extends the basis for action against discrimination compared with the original proposal. the ep also welcomes the fact that gender discrimination includes non-transition discrimination and that the seven-year period of the programme will also take into account developments in eu law and the case law of the court of justice of the european union on gender identity. we also felt it important to stress during the negotiations that not only eu citizens but all people living in the european union should have their fundamental rights respected. the merger of three more separate programmes in the previous seven-year cycle will result in a simpler and more efficient support system than the current one. if parliament votes on the report... (the president withdraws)
mr. president, the commissioner is here. the justice programme can give concrete content to the union's fundamental objectives. it is a matter of the community's legal system being disrupted. this should contribute to the further development of the legal culture of the union in the next budgetary cycle. it's the shared legal knowledge, the everyday cooperation that's most important to citizens. that is why i would stress the importance of training practising lawyers, judges and prosecutors. it is necessary that our citizens can easily exercise their rights, understand the different procedures and, not least, receive legal aid across borders, precisely because the legal systems in the member states are so different. and i would like to emphasize the increasingly urgent drug prevention measures that will be supported by this program. on the other hand, i'd like to say something about the citizenship program. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that it will really help a lot of communities with their problems. the fight for equal opportunities should not only remain important at the level of slogans, but also bring about change in practice. i would point out that, in the case of national linguistic and indigenous minorities, i do feel that there is a lack of balance between the commission's action in words and the actual projects that are being implemented, the real support that is being given to these communities.
the rapporteur. − in negotiating the programme, we sought to make it easier for applicants to access resources and we also considered it important to ensure continuity and predictability for the organisations receiving support. the european commission will also be responsible for assisting member states with low applications due to insufficient administrative capacity or other objective reasons. it will also have to monitor the performance of member states in terms of internationally recognised indicators of those rights. if parliament votes on the report today, it will be up to the member states and the commission to do everything possible to close the bidding as soon as possible.
my dear sergeant georgieva, i have to ask you to leave. the present proposal proves that we have learned from the sad experience of the past few years. we hungarians have experienced the tragedy of the red-lipped soap-spreader, which was the worst industrial disaster in the history of hungary, or the consequences of the cyanide disaster in romania in hungary. it is therefore crucial to address the shortcomings of the union's disaster management system. i agree and support member states communicating their disaster prevention and response capacities to the european commission in order to improve their response. i also welcome the establishment of the european emergency response centre, but it remains to be seen whether the european solidarity fund or the humanitarian fund can provide adequate assistance in the event of industrial disasters.
in writing. − the european parliament voted today by a large majority on two community funding programmes to provide support in the fields of justice and civil rights in the next financial period. the justice programme in the next budgetary cycle can contribute to the further development of the union legal culture, the knowledge of community law, and everyday cooperation in the field of civil and criminal law. in addition to ensuring the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services, it is necessary to make it easier for our citizens to exercise their rights, to understand the different procedures and, last but not least, to obtain legal aid across borders, precisely because of the differences in the legal systems of the member states. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the european parliament voted today by a large majority to approve two community funding programmes to provide support in the field of justice and civil rights protection for the next financial period. the rights and citizenship programme will be able to help more effectively than ever before the problems of many communities and the struggle for equality of opportunity, and i hope that it will also bring about a change in practice, for example in the case of national, linguistic and indigenous minorities.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that in the next budgetary cycle the union will launch programmes in the area of the implementation of justice and the protection of fundamental rights that are more transparent and easier to apply for than those for our citizens. these programmes are also of particular importance because they help to bring the spirit of the charter of fundamental rights to life in the union. i hope that this program can help many communities with their problems, and that the fight for equality will not only remain important at the level of slogans, but will also bring about a change in practice. i am thinking here of national, linguistic and indigenous minorities, for whom i feel there is a lack of balance between the european commission's action, expressed in words, and the actual projects that are being implemented, the real support that is being given to these communities. i hope that the programmes that are now being launched will not leave these communities out of the target groups. without this, we risk having these communities disillusioned with the spirit of the union by 2020. that can't be our goal.
in writing. − the european union granted autonomous trade preferences to the republic of moldova on the basis of a regulation approved and adopted by the council in 2008. the autonomous trade preferences are to apply until 31 december 2015. in addition, continuous trade and import activity must be ensured. i will continue to vote in favor of a resolution that is favorable to the country.
in writing. − as a side-effect of globalisation, criminal organisations and terrorist groups have developed cross-border mafia networks, which contribute to the flourishing of activities that threaten human security, such as the illicit accumulation and trafficking of firearms. the situation for law enforcement agencies is further complicated by the fact that, with the advent of the internet, criminals are able to use increasingly sophisticated tools, such as the spread of e-commerce, the online arms trafficking networks. moreover, criminals will always seek to circumvent the strictest rules of the legal market. it is therefore essential to define action at union level and to identify actions that promote the eradication of illicit trade in firearms. strengthening the protocol against the production of and trafficking in firearms is a very important step forward, as it would ensure the protection of citizens, without hampering the legal use of firearms. the protocol supports the development of more effective information exchange, as coordinated cooperation between member states can be one of the most effective methods of dealing with dispersed and organised criminal groups. that is why i support the resolution on the ratification of the protocol.
in writing. − there has been a longstanding debate between the european union and the united states of america on the issue of beef from non-hormone treated animals being imported. it is important that we only eat high-quality food, and i think that only hormone-free beef should be allowed into the european union. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european union's space policy. i think that a lot of services depend on the space industry, and a lot of industries can benefit from it directly or indirectly. think of navigation, the internet, or satellite television, which are now a major part of our lives. so it's important that we develop these techniques.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the proposals contained in it will finally put an end to the biggest problem of the common fisheries policy so far, which is the persistent overfishing. the report says that the council of ministers, when negotiating fishing quotas, should also take decisions that will result in sustainable fisheries. fishermen must take account of the 'maximum sustainable yield', i.e. they must not catch more fish than can be re-produced in a given year. the objective is to maintain the stock above the maximum sustainable yield. in order to put an end to this wasteful practice, which is currently not prohibited, fishing vessels will be obliged to land at least 95% of their catches gradually from 2015. the total catch is determined by area, based on a calendar. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has sought to maintain the highest possible standards in order to achieve a near total ban on the use of shallow drilling. the new marketing rules also guarantee that consumers are better informed, including about the origin of the fish purchased and the fishing techniques used.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the civil protection mechanism, because i think facing major disasters needs coordinated action at eu level. however, tackling these situations is important not only inside the eu but also outside our borders. in this regard i would like to welcome the launch from january 2014 of the eu aid volunteers initiative that will create an opportunity for more than 8 000 eu and non-eu citizens to be trained and deployed to humanitarian operations worldwide and another 10 000 people are expected to support the eu aid volunteers as ‘online volunteers’, with tasks that can be carried out from home on a computer. these initiatives are of utmost importance in order to prevent, prepare for and respond effectively to major disasters.
in writing. − today, natural and man-made disasters are becoming more frequent, complex and intense, and climate change is expected to lead to more extreme disasters in the future. an important legal instrument for civil protection within the european union is the community civil protection mechanism, which coordinates the preparation and deployment of member states' in-kind assistance (e.g. experts, equipment) in the event of any serious emergency in countries requiring international assistance. the concept of civil protection is interpreted in different ways by the member states, which can be traced back to different historical, political and cultural experiences. although its operational powers are changing over time, i would like to emphasise that the principle of subsidiarity remains in place in relation to civil protection, i.e. it is primarily a matter for the member states. european legislation can therefore only support the actions of the member states and encourage cooperation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing eu-wide framework for the management of natural disasters to include the following areas: i also consider it important to establish the emergency response capacity as a voluntary pool of capacities, which is an important factor in creating a more functional european disaster response system. but i would like to stress that military means should only be used as a last resort.
in writing. − today's plenary session of the european parliament approved the binding rules guaranteeing that all member states comply with the provisions on full information of mortgage lenders and protection against the greatest risks. the proposal reduces borrowers' risk appetite, regulates the maximum repayment amount, the possibility of changing interest rates, the convertibility of foreign currency loans, and introduces reflection time, personalised advice and traceability requirements. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - foreign exchange loans have made it impossible for tens of thousands of families to live and many have lost their property. i voted in favour of mr presedo's report because it is a proposal that will finally reduce the risk of borrowers: it will regulate the maximum repayment amount, the possibility of changing interest rates, the convertibility of foreign currency loans, and it will introduce reflection time, personalised advice and the requirement of traceability. in my view, the outcome of today's final vote ensures that home buyers across the european union are better informed and better illustrated about the risks of mortgages, the increase in the interest rate due to exchange rate fluctuations and even better protected in the event of a loan default. the stock of private foreign currency loans in hungary is one of the largest, which may have developed because the bankers, instead of warning about the real risks of foreign currency lending, even chased the borrowers into taking irresponsible risks, thus becoming the biggest supporters of the wrong economic policies of the previous governments with this lending practice. meps also want to see the eu's role in the fight against terrorism strengthened, and to ensure that the eu's role in the fight against terrorism is strengthened.
in writing. − i voted in favour of stopping the marketing of part of the carbon allowances, thus raising the low price of the allowances and encouraging the development of lower carbon technologies. the rules are designed to restore the original purpose of the ets, which is to reduce carbon emissions. it should be stressed that the ets was not created to harm industry; quite the contrary. it rewards innovation and efficiency by setting a price for carbon emissions. however, it is important to be clear about the message that we are sending with the flow. the warsaw climate conference in november highlighted that quota-based systems have reached a tipping point. that is why we need to ensure that the european ets lives to adulthood, and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the document on the gender dimension of the eu framework for national roma integration strategies analyses the lessons learnt from the initial phase of the framework strategy launched by the hungarian presidency and makes concrete recommendations to improve the specific situation of roma women. the commission notes that the measure is not selective, but that it is selective in nature. i supported the report because the rapporteur's proposals also stress the need to introduce baseline indicators, quantified targets and output indicators for effective monitoring. i also welcome the fact that the document provides for specific measures, such as the extension of flexible working hours and the introduction of a family tax credit to support large families, and that it intends to help girls who have left school early and underage mothers by supporting the continuation of studies that have been interrupted, by providing on-the-job training and by combating the dismissal of pregnant workers.
in writing. − the european automotive industry plays a major role in the european union's economy and should be treated as a strategic priority. we are talking about an industry that directly or indirectly employs 12 million of our fellow citizens, contributes 4% of the european union's gdp, about 25% of world production. the rapporteur intends to increase the share of industry in gdp by 4% by 2020. i myself consider this objective to be important, as it can contribute to economic growth, and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − hungary has been one of europe's leading bus manufacturers for 25 years, but also had a significant share of truck, agricultural, ship and rail vehicle production. with serious development capabilities, a design background. today, all of this has been eliminated as part of our colonization. instead, they have automotive parts manufacturing and assembly, which they can always move elsewhere if they can find even cheaper trained workers. the present situation is a disgrace to our governments. given that, unfortunately, these jobs are also needed because of the unemployment that has been created over the last two decades, i had to accept the proposal with some modifications.
in writing. − today, the european people's party won a landslide victory and moral superiority over the european conservatives when the plenary adopted the motion for a resolution which clearly states that the formulation and implementation of policies on sexual and reproductive health and rights and on sexuality education in schools is a matter for the member states, i.e. subsidiarity must prevail! the resolution thus prevents the ep from taking away rights from national parliaments and interfering with legislation that it has nothing to do with. at the same time, the christian-conservative forces have also succeeded in breaking the left-wing coalition that would have dictated what each member state could do in matters concerning the family, child rearing, sexual education or forced sterilization. today, it has once again been proved that the european people's party, and thus the fidesz delegation in the european parliament, is on the side of the hungarian people against the socialists, and respects them and the sanctity of their private life so much that it does not want to tell them how to act in these and similar requests.
in writing. − the european year of volunteering 2011 was a year to promote volunteering across europe and to raise awareness of its importance. during 2011, thousands of programmes were implemented in hungary. volunteering activities develop social skills and competences, thereby contributing to the development of democracy, helping to strengthen social solidarity and providing a multifaceted experience for the volunteer, the communities and society as a whole. work in this area will continue beyond the theme year 2011. i voted in favour of the report and i agree with the rapporteur that volunteering has a direct impact on society by promoting solidarity between generations. it also contributes to active ageing and lifelong civic engagement, thereby promoting social inclusion. volunteering, in my view, is also increasingly an opportunity for learning, i.e. the acquisition of qualifications and skills through work experience.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of my colleague mr scurria's new report on volunteering a few days after the world volunteering day (5 december). i am pleased that a new report on volunteering has been produced, ensuring that this important topic remains on the agenda of the european parliament. i have emphasised the importance and role of volunteering on several occasions in my speeches. on the one hand, i would like to emphasise the transnational nature of volunteering. it is a field where the union's borderlessness, mutual understanding and convergence towards a common european goal can be put into practice. on the other hand, i think it's very important that volunteering shapes the worldview and values of young people, the next generation. doing something for each other, for others, for free, for the joy of working together, for the unity of the whole, is the real beauty of volunteering, the reward. volunteering is a two-way 'get-get' situation - not only does it benefit the person who gets it, the person for whom it is done, but also the person who gives it.
in writing. − voluntary activities are also essential for the survival of the nation state. there has always been a great tradition of this in hungarian society, and i am not talking about communist saturdays, but about the work done in the barracks, or even earlier times when our soldiers were still free. this movement can be run in harm's way, but if our young people have the right knowledge, they can benefit themselves and our nation. other age groups can join. so this is a supportive report.
mr president, ukraine is heading for a major crisis and the eu is in small measure responsible. the primary actors are of course president yanukovych and the dysfunctional elite around him but equally responsible is russia, which has never properly accepted that ukraine is not a part of it but independent. these three forces are of unequal strength and capacity. the euʼs combination of soft power and a vague european perspective for ukraine proved insufficient to induce mr yanukovych to move towards the west. instead he moved two steps to the north, while still glancing towards brussels. now this is where the fourth actor, ukrainian society, entered entirely unexpectedly into the picture, taking to the streets in considerable numbers to demand a european future. this has greatly weakened mr yanukovych and i think the dangers of a crisis serious enough to shake the country cannot be excluded. is there a way out? yes. to stabilise the situation the eu would have to offer ukraine an eventual prospect of eu membership. will it happen? i wonder.
in writing. – we are all aware of the importance of the events taking place in ukraine. our first priority and concern has to be towards the ukrainian citizens protesting in kiev: for their safety and the respect of their fundamental rights to protest and to freely express their opinion. the abuses in the use of force we witnessed over the past days are not acceptable. president yanukovych seems finally inclined to initiate a dialogue with the opposition but intentions have to be followed by concrete acts, which does not seem to be the case so far. apart from the decision not to sign the association agreement, the main issue lies in the way this whole process has been handled: such an important decision for the future of ukrainian society cannot be taken without a broad consultation and a genuine debate. it cannot be the decision of one person alone. let me add one remark to take stock of the role of russia: although pressure towards ukraine and other easter partnership countries is not acceptable, one has to acknowledge that dialogue with russia seems hard to avoid. therefore i would like to hear the views of the commission on this specific point.
i am pleased that an interinstitutional agreement was reached on external financial instruments, which was the condition for the programmes to continue from 1 january 2014. i am particularly pleased and delighted that funding for the implementation of the eu human rights directives is one of the five main objectives and priorities of the european instrument for democracy and human rights. i think this is consistent with, for example, not only taking action to abolish torture at the level of a parliamentary report but also through financial funding. this provides an opportunity to take practical action in the areas of human dignity, economic, social and cultural rights, and the fight against discrimination. it is important that these tools are reviewed so that we can respond quickly and effectively in emergencies. so it's good that the regulations are simplified, that they are more flexible, and that these financial resources are more accessible to ngos or human rights defenders in need.
in writing. it is gratifying that after months of 'smile-pause', the albanian political forces have found a way to dialogue. the peaceful change of government this summer showed that the ruling and opposition parties have recognized the need to work together. but recent events, including the opposition's boycott of parliament in october, have served as a warning of the fragility of the ceasefire between the political rivals. even after the acquisition of candidate status, all albanian political forces should work to preserve the consensus on issues that determine the fundamental direction of the country's development. in supporting the candidate status of albania, we recognise that substantial progress has been made in meeting the conditions. at the same time, we want to encourage the momentum of reform to continue, as a number of areas are showing spectacular results despite the efforts made. since 2010, albanian citizens have been able to travel to the eu without a visa. the opening of the door has also resulted in a relative normalisation of the political situation in albania. eu governments adopted earlier this month the legislative amendment that allows the re-establishment of the visa requirement for third countries. the albanian government must do everything possible to ensure that this achievement is not jeopardised. at the same time, it should be recalled that a decision to lift the visa exemption must be preceded by a comprehensive investigation producing reliable data.
in writing. there is no better time to discuss our annual human rights report than on human rights day. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, since the draft report itself was such a balanced and comprehensive text that it provided a good basis for our further work. i believe that in the field of human rights protection we must pay particular attention to the situation of children and young people in both the acceding and non-accession countries. on the one hand, i see the importance of improving education systems, providing appropriate bilingual education where appropriate. i also believe that opening up study exchange programmes for young people from third countries can play an important role in building strong civil societies. i also welcome the fact that the final text also pays particular attention to the issue of national minorities. it is essential to ensure equality in practice between national minorities and the majority nation. this is true in all areas of life - social, economic, political, and cultural.
in writing. the report before us touches on important areas, as it examines the very heart of competition policy, namely anti-competitive behaviour, abuse of market dominance and excessive state aid. the report specifically refers to state aid to banks, which really needs to be examined, because while it is true that until european banks are on solid footing, lending to european smes will not really start, it is also true that banks should not be over-subsidised, because, often, they were not the banks, but rather the small people, and to this day they are the real victims of the crisis. i agree that parliament should be able to act under the codecision procedure on competition policy issues and that in certain cases the commission should indeed increase the number of unannounced inspections in the case of strong suspicions of irregularities and abuses. i myself support the commission's fight against the often oppressive and abusive behaviour of the big global companies in the field of fair trade, and i agree with any market analysis which aims at a more effective and at the same time more in-depth examination of the aspects of competition policy in large sectors such as rail freight.
there are indeed encouraging signs for the european union's economy. i'd say we're looking at a significant shift. however, this cannot in any way mean, mr commissioner, that the commission can trust you, and i am convinced that this is precisely the situation in which we can assess whether the results achieved so far are the result of your crisis management work or whether they recognise that the efforts of the member states, the independent work of the member states, which has been carried out without prejudice to subsidiarity, are at least as important. i think it's time for that, too. as for the summit of the european union, there are indeed three very important topics on the agenda of the summit, but as a zero point - i agree with those who have spoken before me - it is appropriate, very important, to mention ukraine, in solidarity with those demonstrators who want to belong to europe, to the european union, who want to embrace our values. as regards the agenda of the summit on defence, i think that our competence extends as far as the report on the subject at the november plenary session will allow. we have said that we will do everything we can to eliminate fragmentation, re-structuring and fragmentation in the internal market and increase efficiency. we spend too much money on security and defence in the internal market of the european union to ignore it. however, we must also be careful, and i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to this, to avoid bureaucratic excesses in this area. as far as gmos are concerned, i can only confirm those aspirations. let us look back at the efforts made so far in the european semester. the commission should learn from the fact that around 10% of the country-specific recommendations are implemented. let us define goals that are much more ambitious, more targeted, and increase cooperation with the member states, and i would like to include cooperation with the national parliaments.
mr. president, i have to go. the european union is a peace project and must remain so! we must show the ukrainian people a peaceful solution, openness, hope. at the same time, it must be acknowledged that there is a persistent democratic deficit in the west and an economic deficit in the east. under these circumstances, we must make progress. the defence market, the banking union, the common economic governance, the recognition that more europe is the answer to the crisis. while heads of government negotiate more europe in brussels, at home they very often pursue policies that are intertwined with national policies wrapped up in sovereignty. we need to make this clear to the heads of government. a united europe, inclusion and progress, or the closure, exclusion and decline proposed by mr farage. i ask the heads of government to be consistent, to tell the people at home what they will agree in brussels.
in writing. security and defence policy on the agenda of the european council small steps policy the december european council agenda for the first time since 2008, security and defence policy considerations were also on the agenda. the question of whether the eu can become a self-sustaining, strategically autonomous geo- and defence policy actor on the international stage is again relevant in the run-up to the forthcoming council debate. europe should have an independent defence strategy and an effective security and defence policy which allows for independent action to resolve conflicts, where necessary. a comprehensive eu approach should be developed, taking into account all available tools (old and new) for conflict prevention and crisis management. the revision of the european security strategy, which has been in force since 2003 and was updated in 2008, is also an unavoidable task in the context of changing security threats and in particular the security situation in the eu's neighbourhood. civilian and military capabilities must be adapted to the needs of the future. this may justify the proposal to develop a white paper on security and defence policy, which could also play a role in assessing the capabilities of individual member states coordinating civil and military capabilities. it is welcome that the council meeting has raised these issues to the highest political level, thus contributing to the review of the concept of an autonomous european defence policy. however, given the different economic and political interests of the member states, only small, concrete steps can bring the ideas to be discussed at the council meeting to fruition.
in writing. the european council, the last meeting of the year, will be addressing issues of major importance for the future of the european union. it is in the interest of the union as a whole that the heads of state or government finally reach an agreement on banking union and a single bank rescue fund. despite the fragile recovery, the european union economy continues to face serious problems. the current state of the banking union is not able to fulfil its role, as the single supervisory mechanism for banks will soon be operational, but the resolution fund for banks remains unavailable to the union. slovenia may need a bailout, portugal may be drifting towards a new credit arrangement, and greece may be unable to reduce its public debt. in my country, economic growth is slow and fragile, and unemployment is remarkably high compared to the regional average. i would like to draw the attention of all the european commissioners and my fellow meps to the fact that our mandate has not yet expired! in the current economic and social situation, it is unacceptable to put aside the interests of european citizens and concentrate solely on next year's campaign! i therefore call on my fellow members of parliament, the european commissioners and the heads of state or government not to delay the creation of the bank rescue fund! protecting small depositors, protecting european taxpayers and creating a secure financial system is in everyone's interest!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting (pericles 2020 programme). euro counterfeiting is a serious criminal matter and its link to organised crime should be taken into account when assessing the economic and social consequences of counterfeiting on the lives of citizens. the euro, thanks in particular to the pericles 2020 programme, is not one of the currencies that is seriously counterfeited. this is due to its design and to national and eu structures. the pericles programme has already made a significant contribution to the protection of the financial interests of the union in the fight against fraud.
in writing. - phil wynn owen has been nominated by the uk government as a member of the european court of auditors. mr owen has previously held senior positions in the uk administration. the uk candidate was heard by the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013 and following the hearing, the members of the committee decided by secret ballot to support the uk candidate. on 11 december 2013, the european parliament voted in plenary on the nomination of phil wynn owen as a candidate member of the european court of auditors. the majority of members of the european parliament voted in favour of mr owen's appointment as a member. i voted for the candidate in the plenary.
in writing. - alex brenninkmeier has been nominated by the dutch government as a member of the european court of auditors. mr brenninkmeijer was formerly a university professor and then, from 2005, an ombudsman in the netherlands. the dutch candidate was heard by the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013 and, following the hearing, the members of the committee decided by secret ballot to support the dutch candidate. the european parliament's plenary voted on 11 december 2013 on the nomination of mr alex brenninkmeijer as a member of the european court of auditors. at the vote, a majority of the members of the european parliament supported the appointment of mr brenninkmeijer as a member. i voted for the candidate in the plenary.
in writing. - henri grethen was nominated by the luxembourg government as a member of the european court of auditors. mr grethen has previously been a luxembourg member of the european court of auditors. the luxembourg candidate was heard by the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013 and, following the hearing, the members of the committee decided by secret ballot to support the luxembourg candidate. the european parliament's plenary voted on 11 december 2013 on the nomination of mr henri grethen as a member of the european court of auditors. the majority of members of the european parliament voted in favour of mr grethen's appointment as a member. i voted for the candidate in the plenary.
in writing. - nikolaos milionis has been nominated by the greek government as a member of the european court of auditors. mr nikolaos milionis was formerly an attaché at the european court of auditors, later a university lecturer and author of numerous publications on the court. the greek candidate was heard by the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013 and following the hearing, the members of the committee decided by secret ballot to support the greek candidate. on 11 december 2013, the european parliament voted in plenary on the nomination of mr nikolaos milionis as a member of the european court of auditors. the majority of members of the european parliament voted in favour of appointing mr milionis as a member. i voted for the candidate in the plenary.
in writing. - danièle lamarque was nominated by the french government as a member of the european court of auditors. ms lamarque was previously an auditor, then president of the court of auditors of the haute-normandie region, then president of the court of auditors of the provence-alpes-côte d'azur region, a post she still holds. the french candidate was heard by the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013 and, following the hearing, the members of the committee decided by secret ballot to support the french candidate. on 11 december 2013, the european parliament voted in plenary on the nomination of ms danièle lamarque as a member of the european court of auditors. the majority of members of the european parliament voted in favour of appointing ms lamarque as a member. i voted for the candidate in the plenary.
in writing. - the eu is in a state of serious internal crisis. first of all, this should be resolved by returning to the principles originally declared decades ago. then you can finance the outside activities when you have prosperity and a clear vision inside. we build first, then we build. i may vote for it then, but i'm not voting for it now.
in writing. it's hard to explain to the cold, hungry masses of europe why we need to allocate a budget of 3000 billion dollars to intervene in the internal affairs of african countries. a lot of people don't understand why things are better in libya now than they were under gaddafi. there were not thousands of refugees coming to italy like today. that money would have been better spent elsewhere, so i had to vote no.
in writing. - before we joined the eu, many believed in the friendliness of the western countries. and the sad reality is that we've essentially been completely colonized. so now we're all eu skeptics. we even remember the cfsp with nostalgia, which, for all its faults, was a much more just union. so i cannot support any pre-accession funds because the whole process is detrimental to all countries. i had to vote no.
in writing. − the european union is not operating according to the principles it was originally designed to operate, but on the basis of wrong concepts, which is creating a continuous crisis. at present, eu policy towards third countries is not essentially shaped by the member states but by the high commissioner for foreign affairs, whose work has been the subject of criticism. that needs to be changed, but that's not in the bill. although the goals are mostly justifiable, i've been reluctant to do so because of the foregoing.
in writing. - there are several exports of democracy with eu participation that are hard to be proud of. just think of the mass civilian casualties in libya, egypt, syria. on the other hand, there are serious violations of human rights within the eu, as in my country in 2006. but also in the everyday life, when the masses without vision work almost like slaves. there is no need to spend money elsewhere to achieve goals, as long as you have something to do with it at home. so i had to vote no on this.
in writing. - the lyrics are very nice. and the reality is that this fund is funded by taxpayers' money. and the payments are going to support the multinational companies, because when they move production to, say, china, they're not going to be paying their workers out of their own pockets, but out of this fund. of course, only companies operating in the old member states received money from the fund. this is unacceptable.
in writing. − the report before us is very important and, as the last rapporteur of the annual tax report, i myself agree that in order to really take double taxation and tax avoidance seriously, we need to regulate in a separate report the subject of the exchange of information, which is of fundamental importance in the field of taxation, but also at european level! just as it was essential, for example in my own member state, that statistical reporting should be carried out by eurostat, for example, not on the basis of ad hoc methods or the particular methods and practices of some governments' whim, but within professionally correct and centrally controlled frameworks (see the key role of national statistical offices), it is also essential that the exchange of information should be carried out, once the information is available, within regulated frameworks, including those for taxation, while respecting data protection considerations, but switching hosts.
in writing. − one of the weaknesses of european democracy, which is constantly being trumpeted as the supreme european value, is that as rapporteur i cannot table amendments to the substance of my own report because i am not a member of any of the major political groups. so an independent mep has less say in the european parliament than those who do not put the interests of their constituents first, but rather lobbying and factional discipline. the only way i had left was to vote down the bad amendments that were put forward.
in writing. − the european parliament today adopted by a large majority a report on the situation of women with disabilities. the document, which is in line with the measures taken by the hungarian government in this area in recent times, contains a number of elements that significantly improve the labour market situation of women with disabilities and strengthen their rights. in line with the report just adopted, infrastructure, accessibility and it developments, including improvements to public administration government windows , are just beginning in our country and will improve access to public services for people with disabilities in an unprecedented way. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the document on the name of angelika werthmann, a liberal, includes all the points of the opinion drawn up by adam kósa, mep, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs. these points were aimed primarily at improving the opportunities of women with disabilities in the open labour market and at ensuring greater protection of their personal freedom and dignity. the document is in line with the measures taken by the hungarian government in this area in recent times and contains a number of elements that significantly improve the labour market situation of women with disabilities and strengthen their rights. for example, with the so-called rehabilitation card introduced last year, almost 60,000 and since 2010 20,000 more people with disabilities are employed with tax benefits in the world of work in hungary, and employment for women with disabilities can also increase significantly. in line with the adopted text of the report, it is planned to increase the carer's allowance for parents of children with disabilities by 40%.
in writing. − in line with the report just adopted, infrastructure, accessibility and it developments, including in the public administration (development of government windows), are just beginning in our country and will improve access to public services for people with disabilities in an unprecedented way. the european parliament has also voted in favour of the report, as i believe that more efforts should be made to combat sexual offences against women in large residential institutions, who are under the care, supervision, care and treatment of the staff who work there.
in writing. − the report was not only supported because it incorporated in all its aspects the elements of my opinion on the subject, prepared in the committee on employment and social affairs, but also contains a number of forward-looking elements which already function as good practice in hungary. this includes the full launch of ict accessibility improvements for people with disabilities (e.g. opening government offices or improving sign language interpretation services) or the increase in employment, in particular the increased possibility of part-time employment for women with disabilities through the newly introduced and available on the open labour market so-called rehabilitation card. i would like to emphasize that in hungary the new penal code also specifically mentions the strict prosecution of violent crimes against women with disabilities entrusted with care.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr de jong's report, as i too believe that the voluntary initiatives already in place in some member states, currently being developed by a high-level forum at eu level on improving the functioning of the food supply chain, should be embraced. i believe that in order to find a solution that takes account of the interests of both producers and supermarkets, a system should be favoured which allows business associations to bring certain practices to the attention of the ombudsman or the decision-making body, while keeping the source of the information confidential. this, combined with the ombudsman/decision-making body acting from the o ce, can lead to an equitable solution.
deputising for the rapporteur. − mr president, commissioner, i have taken the place of rafal trzaskowski who has been appointed to a ministerial post in poland. he is co-rapporteur with roberto gualtieri, as you have heard. i think i too can thank the shadows in his name. it is very clear from having read the report that it is a very coherent piece of work. it has fallen to me almost by accident to take on the task of introducing this particular report and i want to add that, given the economic focus of the report, the committee on foreign affairs has worked fairly closely with the committee on economic and monetary affairs and, i think, to good effect. the report is complex and has the objective of assessing the present state of play in the relationship between the different levels of the european union’s institutional framework in economic issues and proposing improvements where these are appropriate. as with any institution – not least one as highly diverse as the eu in all its manifestations – there will be different levels of power and ideally these different levels of power should operate with as much coherence as possible. at the same time, given the european union’s commitment to democracy, it is common sense that there must be clear and transparent procedures in the exercise of power. the report looks specifically at the effectiveness and credibility of economic governance in the context of the euro and various measures taken to establish sustainable remedies for the crisis. the thrust of the report is to develop a strategy in consequence of which economic governance will operate optimally and equally with the necessary democratic legitimacy. roberto gualtieri has already referred to this. similarly, the report has sought to ensure that the coherence of the eu is sustainable at the operational level. now in consequence of the economic crisis of the last few years, the different levels of the eu and member state governance already find themselves intertwined in a variety of ways. the argument of the report is to enhance eu competence where appropriate while respecting fully the demands of member-state-level democracy. this strategy, while essential, is bound to raise complex issues involving all the different levels of governance. one of these levels is the group of states that use the euro and their relationship to the rest of the eu, to the institutions and procedures of the union. the report therefore focuses on the new rules and structures that have been drawn up in the context of the crisis and are understandably euro specific. that does mean that the member states that do not use the euro are excluded from the argument of the report. on the contrary: the relationship between the two tiers affected is part of the discussion. the heart of the report is the need to enhance the eu’s competences in economic policy in strengthening budgetary capacity and the democratic accountability of the commission in these areas. the governance of the emu has to be placed in an overall eu institutional framework as all member states are stakeholders in its governance. as far as the european parliament is concerned, the report stresses that there can be no differentiation been members as far as their country of origin is concerned. however, the internal rules of parliament are flexible enough to establish the most appropriate scrutiny mechanisms. it should be common sense that the area covered by this report is complex and such complexity is bound to generate overlaps and contradictions. to that end, the report has sought to offer lucidity and flexibility in the expectation that its argument offers the most dynamic solution to an issue of paramount importance.
mr. president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results of the vote. i myself consider the report on our table to be a valuable work, but at the same time i have read this document with mixed feelings, mixed feelings arising from a thorough examination of the document as a whole. this report is clearly more than a collection of problems, more than a logical compilation of the questions that need to be answered in order to develop the european union further, but the document that has been produced is, in my opinion, far less than a set of solutions to the pressing problems that affect the european union's everyday life. strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union, monitoring the employment aspects of union activities, coordinating member states' employment and social policies more effectively and strengthening social dialogue are important and welcome ambitions. economic policy cannot be managed independently of social policy. the social dimension of the functioning of the union is as important as the economic one. it is important that employment and social considerations are duly taken into account in the formulation and implementation of policies and measures. however, while better coordinating employment and social policies, we must not forget that this is essentially a member state competence and that member states' competences are therefore fully respected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, first of all let me congratulate the two co-rapporteurs for this very important and comprehensive report. not only does it provide a deep analysis of the differentiated integration within the european union, taking stock of the changes brought by the necessary strengthening of economic governance at eu level, but it also puts forward concrete solutions in a two-step approach: within the current institutional framework, and what could be done later on through treaty changes. let me emphasise a few key points in this report, concerning the necessary democratic legitimacy, accountability and transparency. this is a crucial requirement of the different measures adopted to strengthen financial stability and economic governance, and although it has often been underlined, for example in the report ‘towards a genuine economic and monetary union’, much improvement is needed and expected. this is especially true of parliamentary scrutiny which is often lacking, for example, with regard to the troika, the efsf, and of course the esm. another point i would like to highlight is the asymmetry that can arise between member states which have the euro as their currency and the other member states which do not. it is important for all member states to remain associated with the mechanism and decisions taken among eurozone members, for the sake of unity and given their implications for the european union as a whole. finally, i welcome the strong emphasis put on the necessary strengthening of the social aspect of the emu and the proposal outlined in the report of expanding the principle of enhanced cooperation to social and employment policies.
deputising for the rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to echo roberto gualtieri. this has been an extremely interesting debate and there are a number of points that i have taken from it. i think the point regarding the complex relationship between unity and differentiation, as raised in the report, is a central one. where the boundary between the two should lie is always difficult to establish and i think the report does offer some clear signposts. the difficulty, of course, lies in the political implications of where we draw that particular boundary. the second point i want to make is that a very strong argument has been made by a number of speakers in this afternoon’s debate in support of social benchmarks, the general social issue to accompany the economic and fiscal ones. i think it is very hard to disagree with this when unemployment is as high as it is in so many states of europe. a third point struck me as being of considerable significance – i think i made it myself at the outset – namely that the democratic legitimacy of whatever we propose is the sine qua non of all development. we have to confront this issue and i think we have to do it effectively. we have to think further about what the most effective mechanisms in this respect actually are. finally, on the issue of treaty change, which has come up several times – various speakers have mentioned it – there has to be considerable support for a move in this direction. many of the changes discussed today necessitate treaty change and i would like to add that a properly organised convention could itself contribute to overcoming the legitimacy deficit.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr alain lamassoure, drawn up on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on relations between the european parliament and the institutions representing national governments (2012/2034 (ini)) (a7-0336/2013).
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, alain lamassoure has produced an extremely cogent and illuminating report. we know that the lisbon treaty has been in effect long enough for us to have valid insights into its workings, and this is what the report has done, notably focusing on one particular area in which the lisbon treaty has left certain points open to interpretation, namely the relationship between the european council and the european parliament. the central proposal of the report is to regulate this relationship in the expectation that the european council will not involve itself in negotiations that are properly handled under the codecision procedure. to this effect, meetings of the european council should be preceded by a debate in parliament with the president of the european council making a presentation in person. then, what the european council actually states should be – it is clear – negotiating instructions for the council of ministers rather than non-negotiable instructions. possibly the most urgent point in the report concerns the election of the president of the commission. respect for the choice of the citizens of europe, as articulated in the elections to the european parliament, is a necessary condition for the legitimacy of the european union as a whole. it is vital that the european council respect this provision. broadly speaking, the underlying thinking behind the report is to strengthen the community method and to dilute the growing trend towards intergovernmentalism in the governance of the european union. in this connection, the role of parliament as a primary body with direct legitimacy is an essential counterweight to intergovernmentalism.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank alain lamassoure for his excellent report. it is always a pleasure to work with him. we have indeed to take stock of the changes that have taken place in practice in recent years, since the adoption of the lisbon treaty. in the light of the crisis in the mechanism aimed at strengthening financial stability and economic governance, and of the legislative work carried on since the beginning of this term, we have witnessed important changes. in particular, the role of the european council and of its president has drastically evolved, sometimes beyond what was foreseen in the treaties. therefore, it is important for this parliament to assess the evolution of the role of the european council and the changing nature of its relationship with the european parliament. working relations between the council and the european parliament should therefore be formalised and enhanced. the evolution of the institutional practices we have witnessed with the crisis calls for much more transparency and democratic accountability. this requires more exchanges with the council, and especially with its president, given the importance his role has taken on. it also requires more open debate and better coordination on both sides, which means getting information sufficiently in advance, which has not always been the case in recent years. taking into consideration the negotiations on the mff, i also believe that the proposal included in the report, to extend the tripartite meetings between the presidents of the institutions beyond budgetary matters, is worth exploring. finally, let me underline how important it is for the european council to clarify how it intends to respect the outcome of the next european elections in appointing the president of the european commission. hopefully, they will be here next time.
that was not a question, mr gollnisch. there is therefore no need to answer, mr vlasák, but if you are interested in replying i will give you the floor.
thank you very much. three-headed dragons are also common, at least in folklore, but this time it's mrs. le grip.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will be held on thursday 12 december 2013.
the following point is inserted after point (b) of article 2 (1) of the protocol on the statute of the european system of central banks and of the european central bank:
we also thank the lithuanian presidency for its work, and although there have been occasional critical voices, the general opinion in parliament is that the lithuanian presidency has been quite active in our discussions, for which i would like to express my special thanks. i'm going to close this debate by saying that i, for one, very much hope that in the next campaign i won't get questions from people about how this stability mechanism, court and all is going. the structure of the european union is quite complicated, and now we've managed to make it a little bit more complicated. thank you for joining the debate. i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, there's a hungarian folk wisdom that says good work takes time. i am confident that the preparation of the legislation - if it has taken four years to get to the point where we can finally vote on it in the european parliament - has indeed taken so long because it has been sufficiently well prepared. and that legislation could then be born that would help make the european union's foreign policy much more effective and much more flexible than it has been in the past. we need this because, as a result of global political change, if we cannot react quickly, we will be left behind in the market competition. these laws have given the commission new powers, such as the authorisation of new import rights, the introduction or amendment of quantitative restrictions and the introduction of safeguard measures. the commission has been given a very large number of powers in a number of areas, and it will be very important in the future for the council and parliament to be able to monitor their implementation. i wish you the best of luck with that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the european union is surrounded by oceans and seas. its member countries have more seas than land, and its coastline is seven times that of the united states. i think these numbers in themselves support the importance of the policy we're talking about. the question is: why is it important for me, as a representative of hungary, to comment on this debate? well, the answer is simple, because the coastal zone is home to 200 million people, it provides 88 million jobs and it generates 40% of the european union's gdp. it is therefore very important to achieve conscious, sustainable development in the future. i think that, given the very important role that this region plays in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy - with seven million jobs and hundreds of millions of euros of investment planned - it is very important that we keep integration, environmental considerations and sustainability in mind in the future.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the annual report of the european central bank for 2012 (a7-0382/2013) by mr gianni pittella, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i welcome mario draghi, president of the european central bank, and commissioner olli rehn.
on behalf of the ppe group. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr pitella, the rapporteur, for doing an excellent job, and i would also like to thank his office for the work and the coordination activities that we were able to cooperate in producing the report. i think it is important to note that we are faced with a report, we are going to vote on a report, which not only gives a very good and credible assessment of the ecb's activities in 2012, but also does not forget the fact that the mandate of the ecb as laid down in the treaties, the fundamental role of the ecb, and the examination of the ecb's activities in 2012 in the light of this price stability mandate. in this context, i consider it important to mention and assess as appropriate the interest rate cut of july 2012, in particular in view of the weak performance of the european union economy. however, i would also like to highlight other activities which i consider appropriate, albeit temporary. this is the activity in ltro and omt operations, which, if it had not done so, i think we would have had to expect much more volatility. in addition, there could have been a surplus of money on the market, possibly in the form of bad stocks, which could have led to an increase in inflation or an increase in exchange rates. however, i would like to mention that the activity in the field of securities transactions can only be temporary. the ecb should not play a role in resolving sovereign debt or in recapitalising the national central banks or thereby influencing the interest rate on sovereign bonds. it is important in this respect to link this activity to strict requirements, conditions, linking to esfs or esm programmes. i myself support the introduction of the banking union and am pleased that progress has been made in the area of the resolution funds, but i would like to make one final comment. i believe that neither increased tasks, new activities nor increased attention should hinder our cooperation, namely the european parliament and the econ commission to implement democratic accountability of the bank's activities.
thank you very much, mrs. goulard's remarks have been noted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the euro area gdp fell by 0.6% last year and unfortunately will fall by 0.4% this year. the european central bank, rightly, by lowering interest rates, was trying to get more money into the economy. however, it is necessary to ensure that tangible developments in the real economy are finally taking place, given that the current situation is that firms have difficulty or no access to funds from the financial sector. the key question in the coming period will be whether we can reinvigorate and modernise the sme sector, since they account for 98% of businesses in the euro area, they employ three quarters of the workforce and they generate 60% of gdp. i very much hope that the national banks of the member states will also join these programmes. in hungary, the national bank of hungary has launched a highly successful loan programme of almost eur 7 billion to help and support entrepreneurs. this can be a good example in other member states.
i myself consider this a priority and we have long since moved beyond the wording of the tax action plan, the many reports in which we have sent messages of substance. i agree that this is a billion euros, a significant amount. we need to seize everything in order to catch the tax evaders and the tax cheats and put an end to this activity. i'd like to draw the honourable officer's attention to one thing. in my report i have outlined the need to create an intelligent tax information system to which those indicators would be well suited. they could provide the data to determine what constitutes an acceptable tolerance and could be used to set targets for tax evasion and tax avoidance. i would like to refer you to this report again... (the president withdrew)
in writing. − the green economy is growing at the expense of the non-green economy. this is certainly an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises. but in my country, it would only be possible if our government did not use every means to oppress the little ones and did not subsidize the multinational companies, including the not so green rubber companies, with hundreds of billions. the report is thinking in the context of a market economy, which is now outdated, but can serve good purposes and should be supported.
in writing. − consumers without a bank account are simply not able to benefit from the internal market. the lack of access to a payment account is a barrier to consumers buying goods cross-border or online. it is essential to find appropriate solutions to ensure that consumers are not left out of everyday life and new technological developments. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that consumers should be given the opportunity to enjoy the benefits of online markets, new technological innovations, cheaper services and lower prices. many european consumers benefit from faster payments and cheaper transactions. i believe that the next step will be comparability of financial services, which will make it easier for consumers to make informed and informed choices. a rapid switching process should promote lower prices and increase the quality of financial products offered to consumers. supporting the free and informed choice of consumers and facilitating consumer mobility are essential for the functioning and completion of the internal market.
in writing. − there are convenient advantages to using a bank account and there are disadvantages that the average user rarely notices. we're having one of those moments right now, with mr. snowden's work. it's been revealed that all of our data is being monitored, and what's in that report has given them even more access to our data. i think that certain parts of it are acceptable, but i voted against the whole of it because it promotes the expansion of the financial market in a way that is mainly in the interest of the big financial centres and the big banks.
in writing. - it's a huge body of material, so it's no wonder it's full of partial truths. i think it's pointless to conflate all kinds of offshore activities, because it makes the regulation unmanageable, but maybe that's the point. what is even more troubling is that it is a strong interference in the sovereignty of eu member states, a significant step towards a united states of europe, and the rapporteur even treats the us as a reference point, which is a clear indication of his commitment to forced integration. for me, as a rejector of the current type of eu, the only acceptable vote is a 'no'.
in writing. - since trianon, we've been interested in maritime affairs, so we're not interested in fishing. we must nevertheless take into account the interests of those living in the former hungarian territories. this report amends the commission's proposal for reform of the common fisheries policy. the amendments give priority to the protection of small-scale or coastal fisheries. the aim is also to make farming environmentally and socially viable. all of this is in the interests of those once in the bonds of the holy crown, so i voted for it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's report at first reading which seeks to create a new legal basis for the european capitals of culture initiative beyond 2019. the european capital of culture is a title that gives european cities an international reputation and makes culture accessible to all citizens through the programmes. the initiative also has the particularity that candidate countries and potential candidates can apply for the title. i agree with the proposal that the programme should retain the main features of the current system and give the title to the member states on a rotating basis. i support the provision of more detailed guidance to cities applying for the title of cultural capital, which will also simplify the process of selecting and monitoring the cities concerned. i also support the flexibility that allows cities to include neighbouring areas in the programme for the year of the title.
in writing. − the european capital of culture initiative was launched in 1985. since then, the campaign has received widespread acclaim. as we come from different countries and the european union is also a meeting place for different cultures, i think it is important that we know each other's cultures, values. the last time hungary hosted such an event was in 2010. the next time we'll be hosting this event alongside the uk is 2023. i am voting in favour of continuing the european capitals of culture initiative in 2019 beyond the expiry of the current programme. i consider it important to maintain the main features and structure of the current system and to continue to award the title on a rotational basis to the member states.
in writing. − the document on the gender dimension of the eu framework for national roma integration strategies analyses the lessons learnt from the initial phase of the framework strategy launched by the hungarian presidency and makes concrete recommendations to improve the specific situation of roma women. the report highlights several operational flaws identified by the initial phase of the framework strategy, in terms of an opaque governance structure, insufficient funding and unclear objectives. the report calls on the member states to ensure the resource requirements of the national integration strategies and on the european commission to clearly define the institutional division of powers and responsibilities between the organisations concerned and to clearly define their role in monitoring, monitoring and coordinating the framework strategy. the document provides for specific measures, such as the extension of flexible working hours and the introduction of family tax relief to support large families, and aims to help girls who drop out of school early and underage mothers by supporting studies that are not completed, providing on-the-job training and tackling the dismissal of workers who are expecting a child.
in writing. - the current eu is like a crippled person in a wheelchair who is screaming in anger and probably needs his diaper changed. if he keeps going like this, he'll just stay where he is and get weaker and weaker, but if he learns to ask, he'll get help. only the gue/ngl material takes account of realities and contains arguments and cultural style acceptable in international diplomacy, so i voted for it. the rest is just unclassifiable. poor ukrainians, if they knew what they were about to enter and what colonization awaits them, they would not freeze in the square. the motion as a whole deserves a resounding no.
in writing. − so far, no new country has benefited from eu membership, so it is time to stop enlarging the eu. it is time to put the eu itself in order, in line with the founding principles. and albania is hardly a real country within the framework of the polish people. it's a completely different social arrangement. that's why the material is not a duck.
in writing. − the crisis in the european union and the colonization of hungary have led to a growing scepticism about the future of the union. in fact, it seems that the crisis is likely to deepen, thanks to neoliberal economic policies. in this proposal, they are trying to force us to accept the banking union and other integration institutions, which i find unacceptable.
in writing. − the continuing crisis in the european union and the colonization of our country have led to a growing scepticism about the future of the union. in fact, it seems that the crisis is likely to deepen, thanks to neoliberal economic policies. this report pushes for economic and monetary union. it also advocates further integration, which is completely unacceptable to us.
in writing. - if we believe strongly in democracy - but not in the current state of affairs - we must admit that the institutions directly elected by the citizens must be given more powers. for the eu, the ep is made up of elected representatives, while the epc and the commission are made up of appointed representatives, often amateurs in their field. the report is therefore to be supported, as it seeks to increase the power of the european parliament over the european council.
in writing. − green infrastructure sounds very good and is revolutionary, but it is a return to our roots. somehow, the insane mantra of constant growth has to be thrown out so that things can fall into place. and that the greenhouse gas problem is something that needs to be addressed locally. the destruction of the rainforest should be stopped immediately. few people realize that electricity can only be produced in an environmentally friendly way in a nuclear power plant with current technologies. the substance is generally acceptable.
in writing. − the ep plenary today voted by a large majority to adopt the european central bank's 2012 report, which is also responsible for the stability of the euro and which, in addition to inflationary and european monetary policy, also includes one-off purchases of various european government bonds on the money markets. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − it is shocking that the report essentially endorses the ecb's policy of containing the banking crisis by buying up government bonds, which is prohibited by the lisbon treaty. the decision by the eu leaders to buy up the sovereign bonds of the troubled countries so that they could be financed at a rate of 12% and not 810% of the speculative money market, which is a step forward, but it did not dismantle the neoliberal mindset. so i had to reject the whole thing, even though a lot of the findings in the report were true.
in writing. - i voted in favour of resolution b7-0552/2013 because i too believe that tax evasion and tax avoidance undermine tax morale and that it is not acceptable to avoid paying taxes by always looking for loopholes in the law. in my view, the measures taken at national level are few in themselves and the european union should therefore take a leading role at european union level rather than dictating. for this reason, it is necessary to harmonise the laws at union and national level. i welcome the action plan, which i consider to be a good starting point, but i will continue to call for more effective action against tax havens. furthermore, i consider it unacceptable that such a level of unpaid vat, as shown by eurostat, should not be recovered. this can cause insolvency, which encourages people to look for loopholes and exploit them. in my view, there is no significant difference between member states: 2% in western europe, slightly higher in central and eastern europe, between 2% and 4%. simplified vat regulation and reduced bureaucracy are needed, and the range of taxable persons must be widened. this should be accompanied by professional controls and sanctions against fraudsters.
