mr president, i welcome the youth guarantee and if we put it in place it will be a tangible indication that the eu is responding, but it is only a small step and it is only a first step, and we have to look at the bigger picture, at the continued austerity programmes in many member states and the slashing of public investment. this type of economic model has in my own country, ireland, contributed significantly to a 29.7% youth unemployment rate and, while it is not the worst in the eu, the real figure is in fact much higher, with 87 000 people, most of them young people, leaving ireland in the last year because there is nothing for them at home. last weekend our president, michael d. higgins, summed it up when he said: ‘i am so conscious of the discourse that concentrates entirely on the security of the currency, but is happy to leave aside the question of an enormous wedge of the population that are unemployed: 55% of young people in some countries.’ we cannot ignore that bigger picture and you yourself, commissioner, said it this afternoon when you said we must not compromise our future when we consolidate our finances.
mr president, i welcome that the priorities of the irish presidency are growth and employment, which are without doubt the greatest challenges facing the eu. as someone who has been campaigning for youth guarantee in ireland, i also welcome that the proposal will be the main focus of the informal epsco meeting in dublin in february. we are all familiar with the figures: an eu rate of 23 % for youth unemployment. ireland’s youth unemployment rate currently stands at 30 %; it is the fifth highest in the eu. we are living the reality of having lost a generation to emigration and long-term unemployment. last week in dublin, president barroso discussed the youth guarantee at the citizens’ dialogue and his commitment was very much welcomed and found to be reassuring among the people who participated in that meeting. but if we are to have a youth guarantee we need real and substantial funding, as ms berès has pointed out. we need to show and we need to give a sign of the eu’s resolve and commitment to deal with the matter. finally i would just like to ask the commissioner in relation to the pilot projects: ballymun in dublin is one of the applicants and i would like to know the timetable in relation to that.
mr president, it is all very well for the commission to express regret over the crisis of youth unemployment, but have they stopped to ask the question why do we have this crisis? it is not because young people are not educated enough, it is not because young people do not have enough work experience and it is not because they are not flexible enough. it is because of the austerity policies pursued by this commission, by the european council and by all of the major political groups in this parliament. without massive public investment the youth guarantee scheme will just prove to be yet another empty promise. worse, it may be used as a pretext to pursue so-called activation measures like jobbridge in ireland or workfare, which basically mean turning europe into a sweatshop of cheap labour provided by young people, displacing real jobs, and undermining wages and conditions. young people right across europe should mobilise together and demand action to provide jobs now. massive public investment is needed, together with investment in third-level education to provide free access for all.
madam president, this obviously is a serious issue and, of all the sections that have suffered as a result of the economic recession, young people – as has been said – have suffered most. they were told that if they went to school, studied hard, got a qualification, they were guaranteed a job for life. they have done all the preparation – but no jobs. i have known students who have gone for jobs – three- or four-hour interviews – and never heard a word back from the employers. so that is one thing which needs to be done: they need to be treated more sensitively and fairly when it comes to looking for jobs so that they do not become too depressed if they do not get the job. secondly, emigration has taken hold very much in my country. it was highlighted at the weekend that in one school only three of the class of 96 are left in the country. it is timely that the commissioner should be making these proposals, so let us make 2013 the year in which we stood by our young people and gave them hope and jobs for the future.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá ar ábhar atá casta agus leadránach b’fhéidir do chuid is mó de dhaoine ar aon nós. dá bhrí sin, tá moladh mór ag dul don fheisire berlinguer as ucht an dea-obair atá déanta aige agus dár gcomhghleacaithe maidir leis an ábhar tábhachtach seo. mar a dúirt sé, ní maith an rud é go bhfuil rialacha éagsúla i mballstáit trasna na heorpa agus go bhfuil an iomarca cumhachta ag riarthóirí i ranna éagsúla i mballstáit éagsúla. dá bhrí sin, tá na moltaí seo an-tábhachtach. mar a dúirt sé, tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh riarthóireacht oscailte agus go mbeadh sé bunaithe ar chostais réadacha freisin. tá sé sin an-tábhachtach ar fad mar uaireanta bíonn sé i bhfad róchostasach. dá bhrí sin, le linn na bliana seo – bliain an tsaoránaigh – tá súil agam go n-éireoidh linn cuid de na moltaí atá déanta ag an uasal berlinguer a thabhairt isteach ar mhaithe leis ár saoránaigh.
mr president, coderdojo – has anybody heard of it? well if you want to find out more, come to demonstration 7r, which i am hosting in the european parliament on tuesday 29 january 2013, between 13.00 and 16.00 in room 3e2. coderdojo was founded in cork in my constituency over a year ago as a way of bringing young people together in a fun atmosphere under voluntary mentors in order to develop their skills in coding and show them how to develop apps, games, websites etc., and eventually become technology entrepreneurs. despite the great unemployment in europe, there is a great shortage of coders and developers of websites, particularly for coders. so i would ask people to come on that particular day. it was founded by two entrepreneurs, bill liao and james whelton, and i think that if people had the opportunity to establish a coderdojo in their own constituency, it would do them and their young people a power of good.
mr president, i want to serve notice on the irish government, as they take up the presidency of the european council, that they face a mass revolt at home against the property tax. 500 people gathered in dublin on saturday at a national meeting organised by the campaign against household and water taxes. our campaign fought the government to a standstill on the issue of the household tax, with 50% of single home-owners still refusing to pay that tax. the government has responded with draconian property tax legislation. they are giving the revenue commissioners the power to pursue working people who have paid tax all their lives, meanwhile the real tax avoiders – the googles, the facebooks, and the starbucks – are positively encouraged by the irish government to continue to avoid paying tax. at the national rally, there was strong support to call for a massive boycott of the registration process and to build on that boycott with massive street protests, direct action and industrial action to put massive political pressure on the government and to defeat this bail-out tax. the campaign will be mobilising for the ictu regional demonstrations on 9 february 2013 to turn those protests into massive protests against the property tax, against the austerity, and against this government and the troika.
member of the commission. − i think one of the issues that has been raised again and again in parliament and in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) in particular is the issue of gender balance. today you will see that you have three members of the commission who are all women here present, and i think that is a big step forward. however, to return to your question, i would have to say in general that, while individual members of the council have been very supportive of horizon 2020 and of the whole area of research and innovation, it being the area from which growth, jobs, sustainability will come in the future, at the same time the discussions on the multiannual financial framework have been disappointing from that point of view. i can understand that member states have their own particular priorities and i can understand that the net contributors feel that their biggest priority is to reduce the overall budget, but i would have expected and i think parliament would have expected that within that reduction people would look at the policy areas that create jobs, that create growth and that give the kind of development potential to the european union that will enable it to remain a global player in this whole area. so from that point of view, i would have to say that i am disappointed. however, this parliament has been the key ally of the commission on the proposal that we have put forward and i would very much like to pay tribute and compliments to the members of parliament because they have been steadfast in their support for this policy area – and i know that you will remain steadfast. we honestly depend on and need your support really strongly during his particular debating period. i think parliament recognises and has from the very beginning that research and innovation have the potential to release the kind of investments that are required in the european union but that investors need to understand and to know that there is a stable platform right into the future where they can invest and they know they will get a return on that investment and that the european commission and the european union will support that. thank you for your support and we really need that support to continue.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think in relation to each of the elements of horizon 2020, particularly in the societal challenges, we have laid down very clearly what those challenges are, and we have said within those challenges that there are certain areas that are hugely and vitally of concern to the european union. within that, energy will consume – if i can use a pun – a large proportion of the funding, as we have set out in the eur 80 billion budget proposal. i think that if one looks at energy security throughout the world as a whole, it is an issue of major concern to governments everywhere. therefore, i believe that what is being done on the energy side by commissioner oettinger, with support from us, is highly important. it is highly visible, and it also is a matter of member states coming together, coming to the table and realising that in supporting different aspects of energy policy they are going to have to look not just within their own economies, but at the european economy as a whole. that, of course, is the basis on which the funding on energy policy comes under horizon 2020. it is funding for what is in the best interest, and in the critical interest and strategic interest of the european union. i expect that, as always, we will have a tremendous discussion in the council in relation to this. also within horizon 2020, obviously simplification is a crucial issue and one of the issues that has been mentioned again and again in the european parliament discussions. therefore, i think that better application of the rules comes with simplification, if we really want to have true simplification. i think that will assist in the kind of issues and challenges that you mentioned.
member of the commission. − i think that it is very important that we engage with industry and with manufacturers. we need to engage with the regulators in the member states and that obviously will be done by us insofar as it relates to horizon 2020 and the research policy and by commissioner oettinger insofar as it relates to pure energy policy. we are working very closely together to ensure that the implementation of the rules is as simple and as clear as possible so that we do not have this wiggle room as you refer to it. i also think that standardisation is really important. this is an issue, as you well remember, in innovation union, for example in the flagship, where we talked about faster standard-setting and standardisation in general, working not just within the european union and not just within the european continent but with other continents and across the atlantic in particular, to put in place the kind of standards that are necessary. so i think we have to come at the issue which you raised from several different angles: from our own policy area, from the energy policy area and also from the overall standardisation policy area.
my question is again to ms geoghegan-quinn. no single country can solve the problems of the world on its own. i specifically refer to problems such as climate change, food security and tackling chronic diseases. in this context, commissioner, what plans does the commission have under horizon 2020 to further intensify international cooperation in the fields of research, innovation and science? linking into this, i would also like to ask: how is the commission prioritising unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, which we all agree is at catastrophic levels rights across europe now?
member of the commission. − international cooperation in the area of research and innovation is absolutely crucial and critical. we cannot as you rightly said solve problems alone whether they are on the health side, the energy side, the food security side – whatever aspect of research and innovation is involved we have to work together. we have to work across borders in europe and we also have to work with neighbours all around the world. we have had an international cooperation policy over many years in dg research but as you know last september we launched our new international cooperation strategy paper. we are looking at having a much better focus on what we do in terms of scope and scale and we are looking also at the flagship initiatives in which we are involved. we have s&t agreements around the world with very many countries as well as individual ones and we are now looking at whether to continue with individual s&t agreements or to more or less concentrate on regional s&t agreements. recently, i had the great privilege of visiting south africa and launching the second phase of one of our flagship initiatives, the european and developing countries clinical trials partnership (edctp) in the company of ms carvalho from the committee on industry, research and energy (itre). there i saw for myself the difference that relatively small amounts of european funding can make in the townships where they are struggling to cope with finding solutions to hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria. i think we have to be strategic in the way we cooperate. we have to have flagship initiatives like edctp in other areas around the world and we also have to remember at all times what the strategic interest of the european union is. i think there is a huge area of cooperation in which we should be involved. youth unemployment is not an area in which i am directly involved, but it is an area in which the commission as a whole is consumed at the moment. commissioner andor obviously takes the lead and is putting forward various initiatives. i understand that this is one of the key priorities for the irish government during its presidency for the next six months.
thank you for your reply, commissioner. following on from that, as more and more knowledge is created in third countries, what instruments are offered under horizon 2020 to entice researchers and investors to the european union? what measurable markers will you put in place to make the union the most attractive location for carrying out research and innovation and to assess our progress on an ongoing basis in this regard?
member of the commission. − we need to be able to prove internationally that europe is a good place to come and work and a good place in which to invest. horizon 2020 is all about creating the landscape and the architecture to prove to investors and researchers that europe is a place to come and invest. for researchers, for example earlier last year i had the great opportunity of meeting about 80 european researchers who are working in the harvard mit area of massachusetts. during this meeting, i asked them where they would like to see themselves in ten years’ time. each one of them said they would like to see themselves at home and i asked whether this meant their own member state, and they said that it meant the european union. i asked what was preventing this from happening, and they said that it was because everything is unclear. their career profile was unclear. mobility was difficult. taking a funding grant with them across borders is impossible so they need us to put in place the kind of landscape that is necessary to encourage them to come back. that is what horizon 2020 is doing. that is what it is about and that is what the european research area is all about. it is creating that level playing field so that people feel that it is a good place to do business and that they should be here. the european research council is a perfect example of a case in which we have the organisation that is now accepted worldwide as the barometer for excellence. it funds researchers, no matter where they come from, to come and do their research in the european union. the grants are substantial, and it is a huge badge of honour, not just for the researcher, but indeed, importantly, for the institution within which the researcher operates. so i think if you look overall at horizon 2020 and what we are doing in the whole area of research, together with my colleagues, it shows that we are putting in place the kind of climate and the kind of architecture where people feel comfortable to come and invest because they will get a return. they know what the rules are and they know there will be a stable environment into the future. also for researchers, they know that we are putting in place the kind of environment in which they feel comfortable working.
member of the commission. − ms ford, first of all, it would be invidious of me to comment on any changes that have been made by this parliament or indeed by the council while we are at the beginning of a trialogue. i do not think you would expect me to come down on one side or the other. let me say that the commission has put forward a budget proposal and the commission stands by that budget proposal. the commission’s officials and myself will fight for that proposal as we go forward in the trialogue. of course, we are open to discussion, as we always are. we look forward very much to the support of parliament in those discussions, but that is the basic fundamental position of the commission. we stand by the proposal that we put forward. of course i understand the question of food security and price of food and so on. if one looks at the kind of statistics that are out there – that by 2030 the world will need to produce 50% more food and energy, together with 30% more available fresh water – those figures are frightening. they are figures that dictate that we must concentrate very seriously on policies that can mitigate the kind of challenges that are in front of us. therefore, for us, when we set down our budget proposal, we were very conscious of these grand societal challenges that are out there. as you say, they are not just challenges in the developing world – they are challenges that are right with us in parts of europe now. it is crucial that the kind of proposal that we put forward is supported in a very strong way. i look forward very much to the trialogue discussions with parliament, and i also look forward to the council facing up, in the discussions in the trialogue, to these actual challenges that are in front of us now.
member of the commission. − certainly my understanding of any discussions and dialogue in the trialogue will be that each side would have to put forward – well certainly the commission would have to put forward – the impact that cuts would have in the different areas. i think exactly what you ask for will be something which will be done in the trialogue. i very much look forward to parliament and the council engaging in a real way in these discussions.
i would like to ask the commissioner how she can justify the proposed increase in funding in horizon 2020 for security research. i note that research carried out by a policy department of this parliament concluded that, in the current framework programme, it is mostly large defence companies that are the main beneficiaries. these large defence companies, of course, are the merchants of death responsible for one-third of the world’s arms trade. the examples of elbit systems and israel aerospace industries, which have received tens of millions of euros in european taxpayers’ funds, surely illustrate the point. these are firms involved in the building of the israeli apartheid wall and involved in supplying the drones and war planes that terrorise the palestinian people. how does this funding tally, how does it square, with the rhetoric of the nobel-peace-prize-winning european union? would the commissioner not agree that elbit systems and israel aerospace industry should be explicitly excluded from horizon 2020, and that the armaments industry in general should not receive any taxpayer funding?
member of the commission. − in times of unprecedented transformations and, indeed, growing global interdependencies, europe is confronted with major socio-economic challenges which significantly affect europe’s future. some of those challenges include the many forms of insecurity, whether it is crime or violence or terrorism or cyber attacks or privacy abuses for example – and indeed other forms of social and economic disorder. for security in particular, the social sciences and humanities have the appropriate tools, and indeed also have the methods, to contribute to addressing the intricacy of these challenges. that enhances the social dimension of security policy and research. it is important to realise that the areas in which research funding is provided is civilian in nature at all times. that does not mean, however, that funding which is given for the civilian aspects of security may not be used in other ways, but we do not have control over that. what we have control over is the fact that we fund the civilian dimension and aspect of this policy area. there is huge growing concern now. vice-president kroes, who is here, has a particular strategic interest in cyber-security for example, and she may want to add something when i am finished, because this is an area to which we need to pay particular attention. there are a number of significant incidents which have arisen in the member states that you and i know best in very recent terms which show that this is an area in which we really need to support research and provide funding.
i thank the commissioner for her answer. i have to say that i do not think there is any social dimension whatsoever to the activities of elbit systems and israel aerospace industries. the commissioner might elaborate on the social nature. i welcome the statement by the commissioner that the reality is that funding provided for supposedly civilian aims goes to armaments companies and there is nothing to stop that funding, which is is paid for by european taxpayers at this time of austerity, being used for military means at a later stage, and this also applies to the innovations that have been developed. would the commissioner not agree that this is part of a process of militarisation of europe that is ongoing and includes the development of battle groups? and does the fact that the irish government is going to coordinate this militarisation process not make a mockery of any semblance of neutrality?
mr president, 80% of eu citizens live in urban areas. there is no doubt that europe’s cities are key economic generators. as such, cities have a key role to play in achieving the economic, social and environmental aims of the eu 2020 strategy. urban regeneration and economic revitalisation are closely related. in an economic downturn, regeneration areas face even greater challenges attracting investment and enterprise. the development of liveable and attractive cities can be a crucial factor in economic recovery. as a former lord mayor and councillor for dublin city, i welcome the emphasis placed in this report on restoring cities – including marginalised areas – the conversion of disused spaces and concentrating resources on deprived urban areas. these were priorities that i held during my term as lord mayor. eu cohesion policy must focus on local development, since this is closest to the level of the citizen. therefore, i very much agree that at least 5% of erdf resources should be made available for integrated actions and that sustainable urban development should be delegated to the cities themselves to manage.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus ní nach ionadh gur glacadh leis go héasca anseo inniu. mar tá níos mó ná dhá-thrian dár ndaonra ina gcónaí sna bailte agus sna cathracha, agus ba cheart dúinn díriú orthu gan dabht ar bith. i ngach aon bhaile agus i ngach aon chathair tá áiteanna saibhre agus tá áiteanna bochta agus ba chóir dúinn díriú ar na háiteanna bochta. ba mhaith liom, go háirithe, dhá rud a lua – polasaí fuinnimh a chur i bhfeidhm sna háiteanna bochta. chonaic mé seo i londain anuraidh nuair a rinneadh retrofitting ar na tithe go léir in eastát amháin. ní dhearnadh le hairgead eorpach é ba mhaith liom a rá. de bharr na hoibre sin, bhí na heastáit níos deise, bhí na tithe níos compordúla agus bhí na billí níos lú. an pointe deireanach ba mhaith liom a rá gur cheart dúinn níos mó béime a chur ar an oideachas chun seans a thabhairt do na daoine bochta, go háirithe na daoine óga, éalú ón mbochtanas amach anseo.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the vaughan report on the role of territorial development in cohesion policy. this resolution sets out some very practical suggestions to create synergies between five different eu funding programmes over the 2014-2020 period – the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development, and the european marine and fisheries fund – that are designed to implement eu cohesion, rural and fisheries policies. i agree that it should be easier for member states, regional authorities and local authorities to take part in more than just one eu funding programme and that there should be mechanisms to bring all of these funds together. such mechanisms would improve the overall effectiveness of eu funding as well as making it easier for applicants to take part in these programmes. as a former dublin city councillor and former lord mayor of dublin, i know that giving a greater role to local authorities and regional authorities will help improve the overall effectiveness of eu cohesion policy and achieve the aims of the europe 2020 strategy. i hope the commission will carefully study and act upon these positive proposals.
mr president, like many others, i was pleased to support this report. there is an old saying which says that ‘a friend in need is a friend indeed’. in this regard, i think that the solidarity fund has shown that the european union can be seen as a friend to citizens in their time of need. i saw that in my own constituency last year when, after serious flooding, particularly in cork, solidarity funds were made available to redevelop infrastructure, etc. there were two aspects to this: the first was obviously the financial aid, which was very welcome. but also, psychologically, it made a statement that the european union did care about its citizens, particularly in their time of need. there are proposals here to reform the solidarity fund. i welcome those, particularly in relation to defining disasters, reducing the time for aid – which ms girling referred to earlier on – and placing emphasis on disaster prevention activities. we can do all those and continue to aid our citizens in their time of need.
in writing. − the eu solidarity fund was established in 2002 to enable the eu to provide limited financial support to member states and regions affected by major natural disasters such as flooding and severe storms. since then, financial aid amounting to almost eur 3.2 billion from the fund has been allocated almost 50 times, including eur 13 million in response to the severe flooding that affected parts of ireland in november 2009. i agree with the resolution’s suggestions as regards simplifying the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, clarifying the access criteria, particularly as regards regional disasters, and the need to reconsider the intervention thresholds in order to better respond to the increasingly frequent and serious disasters that are occurring all across europe. i also agree with keeping the fund outside the community budget since it is impossible to know in advance how much it will be needed. in view of its limited budget, the eu solidarity fund can only ever play a small part in helping communities recover from natural disasters. but it is one of the important symbols of european solidarity. i hope the commission will now carefully consider parliament’s suggestions to improve it.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfábhar na tuarascála seo agus a bhfuil ann maidir leis an riarachán agus maorlathas atá i gceist le ciste dlúthpháirtíochta an aontais eorpaigh (cdae) a shimpliú. is an príomhionstraim atá ag an ae leis an ndlúthpháirtíocht a chur i bhfeidhm é an cdae, lena chuirtear chúnamh airgeadais suntasach ar fáil do na ballstáit nó réigiúin sin a bhíonn buailte ag mórthubhaiste. mar atá faoi láthair, áfach, tá i bhfad an-iomarca ama ag teastáil leis an gciste a dháileadh agus níl na spriocanna a leagadh amach i dtosach dó á mbaint amach. bronnadh cúnamh airgid de 13 milliún euro ar éirinn ag deireadh na bliana 2010 i ndiaidh tuilte tubaisteacha na bliana 2009. léiríonn sin go bhfuil fiúntas ag baint leis an gciste agus go gcuireann sé cúnamh airgid ar fáil do na ballstáit i gcás tubaiste ach ní mór feidhmiú an chiste a fheabhsú ionas go laghdaítear ar an tréimhse ama a bhíonn ann idir tubaiste agus dáileadh an airgid ar an mballstát ina dtarlaíonn an tubaiste sin.
a uachtaráin, d’fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht anseo aréir agus bhí díospóireacht an-mhaith againn agus bhí a lán daoine ag tabhairt moladh don uasal berlinguer agus dá chairde atá ag déanamh an-chuid oibre ag féachaint ar an ábhar tábhachtach seo agus go háirithe ar na moltaí atá curtha aige ós ár gcomhair. gan dabht ar bith, tá sé thar a bheith tábhachtach go mbeadh riarachán éifeachtach againn, ní hamháin san aontas eorpach ach freisin sna ballstáit éagsúla agus go mbeadh siad bunaithe ar chostais réadacha. ní mar sin a bhíonn sé go hiondúil ina lán áiteanna agus is ceart rud éigin a dheanamh faoi. tá sé an-tábhachtach freisin go mbeadh an meon ceart ag na daoine atá ag obair i gcursaí riaracháin maidir leis an bpobal i gcoitinne agus freisin maidir le lucht gnó. is minic a bhíonn siad ag iarraidh iad a sheachaint nó rudaí a dhéanamh níos casta agus níos measa dóibh, agus ní mar sin gur chóir dó a bheith. dá bhrí sin, fáiltím roimh na moltaí agus tá súil agam go mbeidh riarachán ceart againn ar mhaithe lenár saoránaigh amach anseo.
mr president, restructuring is nothing new; in the eu over the past five years, there have been almost five and half thousand large-scale restructurings, with the loss of almost two million jobs. we are all aware of the impact the closure of a firm – putting thousands out of work – has on the workers concerned, on their communities, and on their families. employees are a company’s most important resource. they should not merely be given information when changes are being made; restructuring would be much less damaging for all if companies could demonstrate social responsibility, if there is real participation and a long-term approach. employees must be part of the restructuring process. no member state is capable of reacting to irresponsible and anti-social restructurings on its own. indeed, europe needs to put in place a framework to better anticipate restructuring and to manage it when it does occur. redundancies should always be a last resort. the cercas report has set out some very positive recommendations for moving beyond merely repairing the damage caused by restructurings, and i was very happy to support it.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i bhfábhar na tuarascála tábhachtaí seo agus tacaím go háirithe leis an moladh inti go ndéanfadh an ae a thuilleadh chun dul i ngleic le ‘glámaireacht talún’ san afraic, atá ag cur slándáil an tsoláthair bhia áitiúil agus nósanna agus saineolas traidisiúnta talmhaíochta i mbaol. méadaíonn an ‘ghlámaireacht talún’ sin ar bhaol gorta agus bochtaineachta tuaithe sa réigiún chomh maith. ní foláir gur ar bharr clár oibre cainteanna i dtaca le beartais nua a bheadh an tsaincheist seo agus ní mór go dtuigfí agus go dtabharfaí aghaidh ar an tionchar atá ag an nglámaireacht talún ar gach uile gné den tsochaí sa réigiún.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfábhar na tuarascála seo agus i bhfábhar na moltaí atá ann i dtaca le straitéis an ae do chorn na hafraice. is ceann de na ceantair is boichte ar domhan é réigiún corn na hafraice agus is beag slándáil bhia atá ann. tá géarchéim dhaonnúil uafásach sa réigiún i láthair na huaire, a bhfuil gnéithe áirithe cosúil leis an droch-rialachas, an tearcfhorbairt, coinbhleacht armtha, coireacht agus dianbhochtaineacht mar chúis léi. i mí márta 2012, mheas an eagraíocht bhia agus talmhaíochta go raibh cúnamh de dhíth ar 8 milliún duine sa réigiún. tacaím go hiomlán le cur chuige creat straitéiseach an ae maidir le cúnamh a thabhairt trí dul i ngleic le cúrsaí slándála, le na fadhbanna atá ann i dtaca le coinbhleacht armtha, leis an drochrialachas agus an bhochtaineacht agus spreagadh a thabhairt d’fhás geilleagrach inbhuanaithe na tíre.
madam president, i intervene just to make three brief points in this debate. first of all, there are those who constantly condemn military intervention in all cases, even in the case of peace enforcement, and it seems to me extraordinary that we never hear their voices on occasions such as this. i think this denigrates the honourable tradition of some countries in peace enforcement where such voices are constantly heard. in relation to the ethical use of military force, the petersburg tasks have been with us in one form or another going right back to the amsterdam treaty and still, as a union, we are not prepared collectively to intervene in these situations, even if it is right on our doorstep. i think that is something which should concern us. what if france was not prepared to act? i think we have to ask ourselves about this for the future. secondly, i want to say is that i was thinking we should expedite the european military training mission. in my own country we have participated in peacekeeping and peace enforcement in many african countries, and in the most recent past in chad. this is something which needs to be put more firmly on the agenda, and i think it is something that perhaps the foreign ministers should be discussing next week. perhaps the baroness would also discuss the matter with the malian foreign minister when she meets him shortly. lastly, if i may say so, i really do regret that our humanitarian and development aid budgets are under such stress when we see the sort of situation in these countries. it is not just the stick we need, we need the carrot. we need to encourage people and support people, and we in this parliament need to fight for those budgets if we are to ensure the peaceful development of the region concerned.
mr president, may i take the opportunity to welcome my colleague, minister lucinda creighton, to the chamber. i wish her well in the coming six months. on the issue we are debating here, i want to congratulate both the commission and the rapporteur. i know that commissioner barnier has been solid on this issue from the very outset, and it is interesting that our colleagues from the united kingdom have left the chamber. could i remark, in good faith, that sometimes you need to stay in the meeting to make progress, and very often some of us have sat for hours in meetings and in chambers to make a point, to get our point heard and to make progress. so please stay in the room. could i also say to them that the imf – not the eu, the imf – said in 2010 that the rating agencies had contributed to financial instability in the markets, and that it recommended that regulators reduce their reliance on credit rating agencies as much as possible and increase their oversight of them. this is what europe is doing, so let us vote on this and hope that it works. we need it to work.
mr president, we can only speculate about alternative outcomes had some of the credit rating agencies’ triple-a ratings of toxic financial products not proven to be so spectacularly off the mark. their defence speaks volumes of the credibility that they deserve. indeed, they shrugged their shoulders and stated that their evaluations were mere opinions and that market actors should take them at their own risk. now, given the shortcomings of our economic and monetary union, member states have found themselves quite dependent upon the findings of these modern-day oracles. indeed the premiums and state borrowings from financial markets have been determined by their obscure musings. some of those resources are used to finance public expenditure, while an increasing share is devoted to servicing debt and paying interest to financial institutions that would now be dead had the states not increased their deficits to save them. i thus wholeheartedly endorse the work done to limit unsolicited sovereign ratings, banning policy prescriptions within ratings in particular, and the proposed road map for the creation of our european credit rating agency in general.
mr president, i would like to make three points, but first of all, may i thank the commissioner and the rapporteur and welcome minister creighton on her first day in plenary for the irish presidency. there are three points i would like to make. there seems to be a view that everything that the public sector does is bad and everything that the private sector does is good. of course the public sector has made a lot of mistakes, but there are very few people who have done as much as commissioner barnier has done to try to put that right, in terms of auditing, regulation and credit rating agencies. i welcome that. but when we look at the private sector, let us remind ourselves that when lehman brothers and goldman sachs and merrill lynch were partnerships, they had to be concerned about reputation. it was when they became shareholdings – when they became private companies – that reputation went out of the window and most of the problems, or certainly a good many of them, started. let us be very clear on that. also, our credit rating agencies, who were supposed to be independent not only put subprime lending into triple-a-rated products – and i had them called before the committee on economic and monetary affairs for this – but one of them alone got usd 800 million as a reward for doing this and similar work. so i would be happy to see some role for european credit rating agencies, be they public or private or both. one last point, if i may. i remain very concerned that private credit rating agencies can regulate government – that is not right. i welcome the commissioner’s general approach.
mr president, i too would like to welcome my good friend and colleague minister creighton here today and i think you will find that she will be a very strong, knowledgeable, pro-european and effective council minister. also i would like to thank the cyprus presidency for bringing this proposal to a conclusion within 12 months, and particularly commissioner barnier, whom my colleagues have said has done tremendous work. regarding the dossier itself, i say ‘alleluia, alleluia, rejoice and be glad’, because the oppressed is turning on the oppressor. we have allowed the credit rating agencies to oppress our peoples and our governments for too long. thankfully these proposals are beginning to rein them in. not before time. i particularly welcome proposals regarding vested interests, reducing reliance on ratings and limiting their ratings of sovereigns to three times a year, and also civil liberty proposals. all great things, not before time, but a great day for european citizens and indeed for politics, because we are now doing what we have been elected to do: to rule and not be ruled by others.
in writing. – moody’s is the only credit rating agency to put ireland at ‘junk’ status and the chief executive of the irish national treasury management agency has said this rating is part of the reason it costs ireland 300 basis points more than germany to raise money on the bond markets. the revised credit rating agencies regulation is an overdue and important step in liberating member states from their dependence on rating agencies and in bringing agencies under greater democratic supervision and control. under the revised rules, credit rating agencies would be obliged to apply clear criteria and methodology when assessing sovereigns, there would be a ban on political prescriptions within sovereign ratings and agencies would no longer be able to interfere in the political agenda by announcing downgrades on the eve of european summits. i welcome in particular the clear road map towards the creation of a european public rating agency to ensure sovereign debt ratings for member states. sovereign debt rating should not be the responsibility of credit rating agencies because too often agencies have exasperated market sentiment with their ratings, fuelling speculation. the commission must now quickly move towards legislative proposals for a european public rating agency.
mr president, i wish to welcome the taoiseach and minister creighton, to thank them for the programme they have set out here this morning and to congratulate the irish presidency for the thorough preparations that have been made. i would like to make three points. one is about use of language. i think the language we use is important. there are many people in this house who play politics with people’s pain. they use phrases like ‘austerity does not work’, as if you plant the seed today and you wake up in the morning saying ‘where is the bush?’. we all know that it takes time. nobody more than ireland knows that it takes time. what happened in three general elections we had in 1981 and 1982, right up to 1987, when we could not get the public finances under control, was that there was unemployment. when we got our public finances under control from 1987 onwards, with the support of fine gael from opposition to a minority fianna fáil government, the celtic tiger years followed. you are right, taoiseach. start changing the language. talk about growth, jobs and stability and hope. and above all, in europe and also in ireland, talk about solidarity. there is plenty to go around. ireland is not a poor country. europe is not a poor continent. it is time we shared things out a bit and helped people through the difficult times that they are facing. the second thing i want to say is that we should take stock in europe. in all this doom and gloom, saying that it is a terrible place and that the whole place is falling down around us, have we forgotten where we came from? there were two world wars in the first half of the last century and 60 million europeans killed each other. then in recent times the unthinkable, the miraculous happened: the berlin wall came down and we brought ten member states into the european union. then they threw the worst financial crisis since the 1930s at us and we are managing it. but i want to say one thing to the taoiseach, if i may, coming back to what he said about africa. this is a changing world. there will be two billion more people within a generation, 90% of them born into what is now the developing world. we will be six per cent of the world’s population. 26 000 children are dying every day. please look out especially for the humanitarian aid budget and the development budget in the multiannual financial framework.
mr president, i am delighted to welcome the taoiseach and minister creighton to the european parliament in strasbourg at the beginning of the irish presidency of the european union. it is a proud moment for ireland to embark on its seventh presidency since our accession 40 years ago. much has changed in those 40 years for ireland and for europe, most of it for the better. however, our presidency comes at a critical time. there are new and serious challenges facing the eu, its 27 member states and its 500 million citizens. these challenges must be confronted with a new sense of urgency. a generation of young people must not be abandoned to long-term unemployment. a sense of aimlessness in young lives will inevitably poison young minds. i particularly welcome the taoiseach’s assertion that the irish presidency will prioritise stability, growth and employment. it is important to recognise that stability on its own is not enough. we must promote growth and create jobs. that is what engenders solidarity among the citizens of the eu and restores people’s faith in the vision of the founding fathers. peace and prosperity through solidarity and cohesion. thus i greatly welcome the irish presidency’s commitment to the youth guarantee as a key policy platform urgently addressing the unemployment crisis in the eu. finally, the banking crisis has held the eu in thrall for too long. it is time to complete banking union and to break the link between banking and sovereign debt once and for all. i am sure that these priorities will be pursued and progressed by the irish presidency to bring them to fruition over the next six months.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh an taoiseach agus roimh an aire creighton chuig parlaimint na heorpa agus guím gach rath oraibh sna míonna atá amach romhainn. the presidency should provide you, taoiseach, and your government with the opportunity to give practical effect to the agreement of june 2012 by eu leaders to break the link between sovereign and private bank debt. the issue of the promissory note must also be dealt with as quickly as possible. this is a matter of great concern and importance to ireland and confidence in the irish economy, and i do know that you are focusing on this. during your presidency, the government will have to conclude the eu budget for the period 2014 to 2020. of course, as you know, a strong and robust budget is required for the common agricultural policy and, of course, the reform of the common fisheries policy, which is also important to ireland. as one who represents the border counties, i would also like to emphasise the importance of renewing the peace iii programme. the peace programme, which you have rightly referred to, has during the period 2007 to 2013 contributed eur 205 million in support of social inclusion projects in the border counties and northern ireland. in conclusion, i would urge the taoiseach to play a leading role to ensure that the peace programme is renewed after 2014. this will further help to develop peace and reconciliation on the island of ireland. taoiseach, i wish you well.
mr president, i want to say to the taoiseach that i feel somewhat like the boy who had to point out that the emperor had no clothes. thankfully the taoiseach himself is not naked, but his presidency slogan of ‘stability, jobs and growth’ is. because there is no stability, there are no jobs, there is no real economic growth in ireland or in europe and your coordination of deep austerity across europe will make the situation worse not better. working people right across europe are being crucified in order to protect the bondholders. in ireland, figures from eurostat indicate that we are paying an incredible 42% of the total cost of the european banking crisis. but the government is reduced to begging for what are, relatively speaking, crumbs from the table of the european central bank on the promissory note. at the same time he will hand over eur 26 billion to the bondholders this year. is it not time, taoiseach, to say: ‘we cannot pay this debt, we should not pay this debt and we will not pay this debt’? delivering stability, jobs and growth requires breaking with austerity and the dictatorship of the markets and, instead of funnelling these billions to the rich bondholders, investing increasing jobs and improving our society for the majority.
mr president, i would like to welcome the taoiseach and minister creighton to parliament and i want to wish them, their ministers and their officials well as they work to deliver a presidency focused on results, but the challenge is huge. in the 60 seconds i have at my disposal i will deal with one core issue only and that is the slipsliding and the backsliding by the commission and the european council to fully and finally break the toxic link between bank and sovereign debt. many speakers have spoken of ireland’s recovery. indeed mr barroso said that our deficit is slower than predicted but he did not say that, despite our very best efforts, our debt-to-gnp ratio will peak at 150 % this year, our youth unemployment is at 30 % and our greatest export still is our young people. if we do not get a deal on bank debt within the context of a european solution we cannot exit the bail-out this year and our economy will grind along the bottom. mr barroso has gone but he spoke of solidarity and fairness. i want to ask him to keep those commitments.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh uachtaránacht na héireann chomh maith, an seachtú huaire atá an onóir sin againn agus tá clár oibre cuimsitheach dúshlánach leagtha amach romhainn ag an taoiseach. tá a fhois agam go n-éireoidh linn an chuid is mó de ar a laghad a chur i bhfeidhm. tá seanfhocal inar dtír a deir ‘ní neart go cur le chéile’. dá bhrí sin tá súil agam go mbeidh an cur le chéile sin ar fáil agus má bhíonn déanfaimid a lán dul chun cinn. let me tell you a little bit about our taoiseach. when he took over our party in 2002 we were seen by many people as being on the brink of extinction. now we have the highest political representation we have ever had. when he took over as taoiseach a little less than two years ago the country was, in economic terms, on the verge of collapse. but now we are very much on the verge of recovery. the energy which he brought to those jobs he will also now bring to the benefit of europe. but also let me also say we are in coalition, and i would recognise the role of the labour party under the leadership of eamon gilmore. we will be working together for the benefit of europe. there are many challenges: the multiannual financial framework, the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and the free trade agreement for the usa in particular and, as a member of the eu-us delegation, i welcome that. as the rapporteur on data protection for the committee on industry, research and energy, i welcome the fact that this has been made a priority, in addition to, in particular, trying to get jobs for young people. let me conclude by saying that rome was not built in a day. europe is not going to be transformed in five and a half months, but we can make real progress.
madam president, i would like to extend céad míle fáilte to an taoiseach and minister creighton to the european parliament. you used one word which i think needs repeating and it is the word ‘respect’. i think that is a word which is in short supply within our member states, sometimes within politics itself, but i do want to thank you for the respect you have shown to this parliament. because very often we have a sense in which we, the directly-elected people who represent the people of europe, are not given the right status by the council. i think you are now in a position to enlighten other council members on the importance of this parliament and what codecision actually means. i have a question for you, taoiseach. i noted very carefully your comments about a fair and balanced agreement on the mff, even if it is imperfect, being better than no agreement. how confident are you that we will have an agreement, and how important is an agreement on the mff for delivery of your work programme? thank you and good luck.
a uachtaráin, is mór an onóir domsa fáilte a chur roimh an taoiseach go dtí an teach seo inniu le haghaidh a phríomhóráide i bparlaimint na heorpa in strasbourg agus chun clár tosaíochtaí uachtaránacht na héireann a leagan amach. mar a dúirt mo chomhghleacaí, sean kelly, tuigimid go léir go bhfuil dúshláin mhóra ag baint leis an uachtaránacht seo. tuigeann muintir na héireann níos fearr ná muintir a lán tíortha eile cé chomh deacair agus atá sé. it is very clear, taoiseach, that you have a very clear priority and a very clear focus on what is really important. the multiannual framework is important. youth unemployment has to be tackled. but if you look at ireland, what has happened in the last two years under your leadership is an absolute miracle. the fact that you were able to state that we are soon going to be out of the programme – the ecb, the imf, the eu programme – is an inspiration for other countries. stability is absolutely vital. we need to inject hope and confidence into europe. above all we need to dispel the doom and the gloom. when this period of europe’s history is written it will be seen as nothing other than a blip. it will be seen as a period of rejuvenation for europe, stronger, more durable and more united than ever.
madam president, i would like to wish the taoiseach and minister creighton well in the difficult steering role that awaits them in the semester ahead. taoiseach and minister creighton, i was encouraged to hear both your statements last week when the college of eu commissioners visited ireland and your remarks today. your emphasis on the need for solidarity and fairness within the eu as a whole and your commitment to prioritise growth and job creation echoes what i and my social-democratic colleagues, among other meps, have been calling for in this house since the crisis hit the continent in 2008. likewise, you understand the need for separation of the banking debt and the public purse for the sake of economic recovery and a return to employment and prospects for a decent future for our youth. we agree that; however the logical corollary is simple, member states stepped in to avert financial collapse and found ourselves engulfed in debt as a consequence. i think the self-defeating austerity-led response has mistaken causes and consequences. our fellow countrymen are certainly among those who feel the brunt of it. so i would appeal to you to take the experience that we have gained to the council of ministers and try to come up with a new approach that can give us a chance in the common interests of all eu citizens. i wish you very well, taoiseach.
i scríbhinn. – a uachtaráin, a thaoisigh – tréimhse ina mbeidh orainn cinntí deacra maidir le todhchaí an aontais a ghlacadh í tréimshe uachtaránacht na héireann. táthar ag súil le torthaí suntasacha ón uachtaránacht seo, go háirithe maidir le dul chun cinn a dhéanamh ar an gcreat airgeadais ilbhliantúil agus an cbt. ní foláir don uachtaránacht seo tús áite a thabhairt do bhearta seachas briathra, ar mhaithe le dul chun cinn a dhéanamh agus spriocanna a bhaint amach. ní hiad na comhréitigh ar bhuiséid agus cláir na t-aon chloch atá ar phaidrín na huachtaránachta. ní mór dul i ngleic le príomhfhadhb an aontais: dífhostaíocht na n-óg. tá 7.5 milliún eorpach idir 15 agus 24 bliain d’aois gan phost agus gan teacht acu ar dheiseanna oideachais agus oiliúna. tá breis is duine as gach cúigear eorpach óg nach bhfuil in ann fostaíocht a bhaint amach. ní mór infheistiú a dhéanamh san oideachas agus sa taithí ghairmiúil ar mhaithe le dul i ngleic le dífhostaíocht na n-óg. eur 153 bn sa bhliain atá le cailliúint mura ndéantar sin. is deis í uachtaránacht na héireann deireadh a chur leis an gcaint maidir le ‘glúin chaillte’ agus díriú ar bhearta láidre praiticiúla a chur i bhfeidhm le teacht i gcabhair ar an ógra.
mr president, on behalf of the committee on fisheries i would like to request the postponement of the vote on my technical report, after serious consideration by the coordinators at the meeting yesterday, convened by the chair of the committee, gabriel mato adrover. the purpose of deferring the vote is to once again highlight the difficulty that parliament is experiencing with the council on the issue of long-term management plans. these plans are vitally important in terms of protecting fishing resources and ensuring the livelihoods of communities depending on fishing. no progress has been made on these important plans since the introduction of the lisbon treaty in 2009, and this is due to the lack of interest by successive presidencies since then. so no progress has been made. we are now calling on the incoming irish presidency to deal with this issue in a pragmatic and realistic manner. the coordinators look forward to the meeting with the irish minister tomorrow morning and to the minister’s presentation of his priorities to the fisheries committee next week. the fisheries committee has put a lot of effort into this over a sustained period, and we want to ensure we can make progress. the council has to respect parliament, but has not done so over the past years. while this report is not adopted, anyone who has any fears should note that the basic regulation of 1998 remains in place. unfortunately if the irish presidency is unable to map a way forward for parliament, we will have no alternative but to block other reports which are in the pipeline, whether it may be the basic regulation or the regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund. in conclusion, i may have a similar request in february if we do not make progress in the meantime, but i do not want to pre-judge the outcome of our discussions with the presidency. i request a roll-call vote on the issue of postponing the adoption of my report.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of parliament’s response to the commission’s reports for 2011 and 2012 on the state of public finances in emu. sharing a currency with 16 other countries presents enormous possibilities. but it also means that we are all in it together, that mistakes made in one euro area country can easily spill over into another. it is therefore clearly in the interests of all euro area countries to ensure that public finances are managed properly. but fiscal consolidation on its own does not work. stability and growth are two sides of the same coin. i therefore welcome the emphasis in this report on differentiated growth-friendly fiscal consolidation that reflects country-specific fiscal and macro-financial risks as well as economic and social conditions, on the need to ensure that the eu has the resources necessary to achieve the aims of the europe 2020 strategy, particularly the employment and social targets, and the focus on youth unemployment and the proposed youth guarantee, which will, i hope, be approved by the social affairs council shortly under the irish presidency.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfábhar an rúin maidir le hairgeadas poiblí san aea sna blianta 2011 agus 2012 toisc nach bhfuil réiteach ann fós ar an ngéarchéim eacnamaíoch, airgeadais agus bhaincéireachta agus go bhfuil ceisteanna an airgeadais phoiblí ag cur isteach ar an bhforbairt socheacnamaíoch agus ar an gcobhsaíocht pholaitiúil. anuas ar sin, tháinig méadú ó 86.2% do chéad ceathrú na bliana 2011 go 88.2% do chéad ceathrú 2012 ar an gcóimheas fiach rialtais-oti. ní a dhóthain iad na leasuithe a rinneadh le déanaí ar chreat eacnamaíoch agus buiséadach an ae agus níl an scéal céanna ag na ballstáit ar fad. ní mór dúinn straitéisí inbhuanaithe ar mhaithe leis an bhfás geilleagrach a chur i bhfeidhm a aithníonn go bhfuil riachtanais éagsúla ag ballstáit éagsúla. os rud é go bhfuil fiacha poiblí agus príobháideacha arda agus easnaimh bhuiséadacha mhóra i gceist i roinnt bhallstát, ní mór straitéisí ciallmhara fadtéarmacha don comhdhlúthú buiséadach a chur i bhfeidhm.
i scríbhinn. − bíonn tionchar suntasach forleathan ag gníomhachtaí gníomhaireachtaí rátála creidmheasa ar an méid a bhíonn ar bun ag eagraíochtaí eacnamaíocha agus airgeadais agus ag na hinstitiúidí poiblí. tá an cumas anois ag an údarás eorpach úrras agus margaí na gníomhaireachtaí rátála creidmheasa a chlárú agus a mhaoirsiú, agus ní mór breis rialacháin a chur i bhfeidhm chun go mbeadh tuartha creidmheasa clúdaithe freisin. tacaím leis an dtogra i dtaca le na rialacha atá ann maidir le hathruithe rátála a leathnú agus i dtaca le hiallach a chur ar na gníomhaireachtaí rátála creidmheas réamheolas cruinn a thabhairt maidir le athrú rátála ar bith.
i scríbhinn. − tá ráta dífhostaíochta de 23.4% ann anois san aontas eorpach, agus de réir figiúirí do mhí deireadh fómhair seo caite tá 5.68 milliún duine óg gan post san ae. tá cás na héireann i measc cásanna is measa an aontais, le 29.9% duine óg gan phost. tá poist a raibh pá ceart á íocadh orthu roimhe seo á líonadh anois le scéimeanna um thaithí oibre gan íocaíocht agus le conarthaí gearrthréimhseacha agus páirtaimseartha do dhaoine óga. tacaím go láidir le tionscnamh an choimisiúin maidir le moladh i dtaca le na scéimeanna um gheallúint don aos óg a lorg ón gcomhairle. is í aidhm na scéimeanna sin don aos óg ná deis níos fearr a thabhairt do dhaoine óga faoi aois 25 agus go chéimithe nua faoi aois 30 post maith, oideachas nó printíseacht nó intéirneacht a fháil laistigh de ceithre mhí dóibh a bpost a chailliúint nó an córas oideachais a fhágáil.
a uachtaráin, aontaím leis na hóráidí iontacha atá tugtha ag a lán feisirí faoin ábhar seo agus tacaím leis an gcuid is mó de na pointí ann. in relation to iraq it is great actually that we are not talking about bombing them as we did in the time of that dreadful dictator saddam hussein. people have been asking the question: is it right that we should be having closer cooperation with them now? i think ms bozkurt was quite right, because of their difficulties now is the time to have closer cooperation and partnership with them and i welcome the proposals. however, there are two caveats. number one, my party is the epp christian democrats and we have to ensure that christian minorities are protected and recognised in iraq. i think that is our duty – knowing our history as tunne kelam pointed out. the second is that we must ensure that the prime minister does not move to a dictatorship. we have to nourish them towards democracy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, firstly i would like to express my sincere condolences to the families of the 112 workers who needlessly lost their lives at the tazreen fashions ltd factory in november of last year and to the families of all of the estimated 700 other garment workers who have lost their lives in industrial fires in bangladesh since 2006. i have seen the statement of commitment from the bangladeshi tripartite on fire safety, but it is not enough. there is already legislation dating from 1981 and 2006 to protect the rights and welfare of workers which has been blatantly and repeatedly ignored. bangladesh is the world’s second-largest clothing exporter. its clothing trade was worth usd 19 billion in 2011 alone, with its factories producing for major brands like tommy hilfiger, gap, calvin klein, h&m and walmart. yet the workers, 85% of whom are women, face a minimum wage of usd 37 a month and are often forcibly prevented from forming trade unions. the bangladeshi government regularly breaks up their protests – sometimes in an armed fashion – and there is a hand-in-glove relationship between the bangladeshi political elite and the textile owners. one in ten mps owns a textile factory either themselves or their family owns one. i support the demands of the families for compensation. an independent public investigation should be launched, and the owners of these death-trap factories must be held responsible for their actions. but does this case not also raise the issue of the failure of european big business and their moral but toothless codes of conduct and cso statements? away from the fires briefly, other practices carried out in the clothing industry in bangladesh carry further substantial risks to workers’ health. in particular i want to draw attention to the practice of sandblasting of jeans, which happens more in bangladesh than anywhere else in the world: up to 100 million pairs of sandblasted jeans a year are exported from bangladesh. this is a deadly process, with workers inhaling silica particles which can lead to the contraction of silicosis and lung cancer. i call on the bangladeshi government to ban all forms of sandblasting and for the eu to introduce an import ban.
mr president, this is indeed an appalling situation. for those of us who give the lion’s share of our time here to development issues and to african, caribbean and pacific assembly issues, it really comes as a shock to see that, despite the efforts we are making, people are working and losing their lives in these conditions. but i am really a bit perturbed to hear people get up here wringing their hands, saying how shocking it is and always condemning somebody else – usually large companies. not all companies are unethical. but in our member states, when we seek to raise taxes to pay for our commitments in the public sector – including our 0.7% of gni – the very same people campaign against paying these taxes – ‘do not pay your water rates, do not pay your bin charges, do not pay property taxes’ – and then they come and ask why the governments of the day are not meeting their commitments. the garment sector is the largest export market for bangladesh, amounting annually to about eur 15.3 billion. what are these people to do? what are they to do if we will not come to their assistance? here we are again in the mff, looking at the humanitarian aid budget and the development budget and prevaricating about whether we are going to meet the commitments we have already entered into. i think – as the rapporteur for the existing dci – that, as we now negotiate the new dci, it is time that we perhaps looked at some form of random auditing of the standards in these workplaces. there is no reason why we cannot provide for that in our legislation. i understand that, in the four weeks since the tazreen fire in bangladesh, there have been reports of 17 other outbreaks of fire in textile and garment factories. this is something that we should be very concerned about and should build into our development cooperation instrument in order to empower ourselves to somehow audit the sort of standards that a lot of companies located in europe are – perhaps blindly – allowing to continue. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i presume the comments from mr mitchell were aimed at me. perhaps he could explain the need to drag in domestic political issues here and explain how paying water charges or property tax is in any way necessary for us to meet our commitments in terms of development aid. if we did not pay a fraction of the bondholders that we are paying and the government you support continues to pay, mr mitchell, we could double, treble or quadruple our development aid which – as you know – i would certainly be in favour of.
blue-card answer. – mr president, if we had done what mr murphy suggests, the irish government would not be able to pay its civil servants let alone pay its development commitments and that is the reality of the sort of nonsense that we go on with. you want abortion? have it tomorrow. put up a sign here in parliament. people come in here constantly demanding things and when some of us try to take the responsibility to raise the taxes and raise the charges to meet those commitments the same irresponsible people stand up and they want to blame somebody else for what happened. why does not the said member spend some time at the committee on development? i do not think i have ever seen you at the development committee. i certainly do not think i have ever seen you at the acp-eu assembly. there are people from every group in this parliament who attend it. you are not one of them. take some serious interest in the plight of people and put their careers and their interests before your own selfish re-election interests for once. that is my response to you mr murphy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, it is clear that we are dealing with two very different approaches in this debate. on the one hand we have the european commission here at least in spirit, the council and the grand coalition of the epp, the majority of the social democrats and the liberals who want to convince critics like me that this interim agreement is the beginning of a success story that will lead to the conclusion of a full economic partnership agreement in the future and will be the recipe for improved regional integration. i have to say that you do not succeed in convincing me that an interim agreement with only four out of the sixteen eastern and southern african countries that were originally involved in negotiations for an epa represents a meaningful step towards regional integration. in essence these epas are free trade agreements which completely disregard the economic and social development needs of african, caribbean and pacific countries. the approach by the commission is a very rigid and inflexible one in relation to the tariff elimination schemes and other items. this is very far from applying policy coherence for development and respect for human rights in the external policies of the eu. instead in reality it reflects a neo-colonial attitude. in relation to zimbabwe, the situation for trade unionists, the political opposition and human rights defenders remains repressive. reports from human rights organisations express serious concerns about a possible further deterioration of the situation in the period leading up to the constitutional referendum and general elections announced for 2013. i am particularly worried about the human and workers’ rights situation in the extractive sector and in the marange diamond fields which are estimated to hold one fifth of the world’s diamond reserves. the diamond trade has played a dirty role and fuelled conflict in zimbabwe’s violent past. this enormous wealth present in zimbabwe and in so many other african countries that is now enriching the capitalist class and the political elite needs to be taken out of their hands. instead it should be brought under democratic control of the people, and run and managed in the interests of the countries’ social and economic development in an environmentally sustainable way. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – obviously i defend every country’s sovereign rights to conclude whatever deals it wants with whatever other countries or bloc of countries it wants, but i also defend my right, as a representative of working people in europe, but also around the world, to put forward what i consider to be in the interests of ordinary people. i do not just accept – and i do not think you would, in relation to many countries around the world – that what the government says necessarily represents the interests of the peoples. that is why we talk about the need for discussions with civil society, discussions with trade unions etc. i think they are the people that we should be discussing with in these countries. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not think that most governments around the world, including in all of the countries in europe, represent the interests of their own people. i think that is the case largely around the world. yes, that is my belief. i do accept the right of elected governments to make whatever decisions on their behalf but we have to defend people’s right to criticise that. i am not opposing in any sense the right of these countries to include these agreements, but i am certainly expressing my belief – and it is the belief of many civil society organisations in those countries – that it is not in the interests of their people. i criticise it from that point of view. i think the other factor here is the bullying role that was played by the commission in the course of these negotiations, which left many of the governments with the sense that they had no choice but to conclude these agreements.
thar ceann an ghrúpa alde. – a uachtaráin, is léir ó bheith ag labhairt le muintir mo thoghcheantair, nach bhfuil meas ceart á léiriú ag aerlínte ar chearta paisinéirí ó thaobh bagáiste láimhe de. which items are ‘essential’ or ‘non-essential’, whether airport retail purchases count as baggage, the dimensions of baggage allowed: these vary from airline to airline and, often, from airport to airport. often, what is allowed for the outgoing flight is, inexplicably, not permitted for the return journey. this lack of clarity across the european union causes confusion and is, more often than not, very costly for passengers. it makes travel difficult and, where such rules are enforced excessively, is resulting in a marked decrease in airport retail sales. stories about passengers being forced to check in their hand luggage due to excessive and arbitrary restrictions are common and often comical, as if all sense had gone out of the window in some cases. we even hear rumours – which may or may not be true – of a bonus for staff imposing fines on the travelling public. these actions are contrary to passenger rights and represent, in my view, a breach of competition law. while it is clear that storage space on aeroplanes is limited and consumers must use common sense about what is an appropriate size and amount of hand luggage, the industry must collectively and uniformly set common upper limits for restrictions. this will give passengers greater clarity when packing, shopping and travelling. what are needed are measures to harmonise commercial practice concerning hand luggage, so as to protect passengers and allow them to carry a reasonable amount of hand luggage, including purchases from airport shops. it is essential that the introduction of these measures is met with more than just lip service. they must be enforced and monitored to ensure that passengers are made fully aware of their rights, and not left to the mercy of excessive and arbitrary decisions at boarding gates.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, there is a commercial relationship between the passenger and the airline, but it is not a relationship of equals involving a passenger who can choose from any airline in the world. as a previous speaker pointed out, many passengers have no choice. we all know that many airlines do not use this ‘one bag rule’ in the interests of passenger safety or passenger comfort but simply as a means of increasing their bottom line by forcing passengers into paying inflated fees for checked baggage. of course there is a need for a unified system. but we also know that this is only one of the many wild west practices that are used by airlines to increase their bottom line – with ryanair, unfortunately, in the vanguard. misleading advertising, poor customer service, rip-off credit card fees and less than straightforward websites were all pioneered by this airline. the philosophy of ryanair is a raw expression of capitalist greed, maximising profit at any cost. this is also, of course, seen in the airline’s treatment of workers, with ryanair operating a dictatorial, anti-union regime where staff are sacked for trying to organise a trade union. i would ask the commissioner if he will deliver on this, or if he knows whether the irish government will deliver on its promises during the lisbon treaty campaign to introduce compulsory union recognition. or will that go down as just another of the lies told during referendums in ireland?
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte roimh an deis seo cur in aghaidh an chomhaontaithe trádála an athuair. the commissioner’s own impact assessment concluded that european farmers will experience heavy losses under a mercosur trade deal yet the commission is committed to sacrificing them in the interests of manufacturing gains. the commission states that the gains made in the manufacturing sector would outweigh the losses to the eu agri-food sector. however, the results demonstrate clearly that the economic losses arising from a bilateral trade agreement would fall heavily on the agricultural sector with a big loss in farm jobs. the impact assessment singles ireland out for significant losses in the beef sector and in general revenue losses from all agricultural activities per hectare of utilised agricultural area. aside from the economic aspect of the security of a safe food supply which european farmers deliver, farming and agriculture are an integral part of rural communities and the rural way of life. those that criticise opposition to this deal and label it as agricultural protectionism should realise agriculture is a growth sector. it is the backbone of economic recovery in ireland and across the european union and it is the cornerstone of food security into the future. demand for food is going to soar in the coming years as the global population increases. meeting this demand will further drive economic growth and will benefit not just rural communities but the eu as a whole. i urge eu leaders and you, commissioner, not to sacrifice european agriculture, not to be blinded by the possible gains to be made in more attractive and popular sectors at the expense of our farmers and the agri-food sector.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i gcoinne na tuarascála seo agus cuirim fáilte roimh an deis seo cur in aghaidh an chomhaontaithe trádala an athuair. de réir mheasúnacht tionchair an choimisiúin féin, bheadh cailliúintí suntasacha ann d’fheirmeoirí eorpacha faoi chomhaontú trádála le mercosur, ach tá an coimisiúin fós tiomanta i leith drochbhuille a dháileadh ar fheirmeoirí eorpacha ar mhaithe le brabús déantúsaíochta a bhaint amach. tá tagairt ar leith sa mheasúnacht tionchair ar na cailliúintí suntasacha a bheadh ann d’earnáil mairteola na héireann agus ar an laghdú ginearálta a thiocfadh ar an ioncam, de réir heictéar limistéir talmhaíochta arna úsáid, a thagann ó na gníomhachtaí talmhaíochta ar fad. ní amháin go bhfuil cúrsaí talmhaíochta ríthábhachtach ó thaobh an gheilleagair agus slándáil bhia de ach tá an fheirmeoireacht ar chroílár pobail tuaithe agus slí bheatha na tuaithe chomh maith. is domheasta é an tionchar a bheadh ar chomhaontú trádála mercosur ar phobail tuaithe agus ar an nós feirmeoireachta teaghlaigh atá againn in éirinn. iarraim ar na ceannairí eorpacha gan bhuille uafásach a bhuaileadh ar an earnáil talmhaíochta eorpach agus gan a bheith meallta, chun dochair fheirmeoirí an aontais, ag an mbrabús a d’fhéadfadh a bheith i gceist le hearnálacha eile atá níos feiceálaí agus tarraingtí.
i scríbhinn. − chuir mé i gcoinne an rúin seo toisc go ndéanfadh comhaontú trádála ae-mercosur an-dochar go deo d’earnáil talmhaíochta an ae. dhéanfaí dochar suntasach d’earnáil mhairteola na héireann agus bheadh cailliúint uafásach post i gceist leis agus chuirfí slí beatha na mílte feirmeoir éireannach i mbaol. is léir ó torthaí measúnú tionchar a rinne an coimisiún eorpach gur ar an earnáil talmhaíochta a thitfeadh na cailliúintí eacnamaíocha agus an ualach coigeartaithe i gcás comhaontú trádála ar bith idir an ae agus mercosur. de réir múnlaí ar fad an mheasúnaithe, is táirgeoirí an ae a bheadh thíos agus táirgeoirí mercosur a bheadh thuas le comhaontú trádála ar bith
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the brutal rape and murder of the twenty-three-year-old medical student and the cases that followed, including the tragic suicide of a 17-year-old victim, brought the world’s attention to the extremely high rates of rape and sexual violence against women and impunity associated with those in india. while a rape is reported every 21 minutes, the real rate of rape is much higher and conviction rates for sexual violence are extremely low, in particular for dalits and working women victims. the response within in india and internationally has been an explosion of anger, of solidarity and of protest. in contrast to that cry for justice for young women and men in india, the political establishment responded initially with repression against these protests and with individuals blaming the victim. they also outrageously have a history of using rape as a weapon against opponents such as those fighting for the independence of kashmir. the perpetrators must be brought to justice with fast-track courts for victims of sexual violence where the death penalty or the medieval practice of castration is no solution.
on behalf of the ppe group in late december, i led a delegation of the human rights committee to bahrain. we meet with both opposition and opposition representatives. we have included some of the findings in a press release, but the report will soon be considered by the subcommittee on human rights. so i'm surprised that this matter was put on the urgent agenda without waiting for our eyewitness report. the resolution is unfortunately unbalanced. along with the perfectly justified demands - for the release of political prisoners, the abolition of military court sentences, the improvement of the situation in the field of freedom of speech - the positive achievements of the country are unfortunately not seen. for example, the constitution was amended to implement the recommendations of the independent commission on the involvement of children (bici); an ombudsman body was created; police stations were equipped with audiovisual systems to prevent torture; and police officers who used excessive force were also held accountable. at my request, as part of a delegation, the minister of the interior gave us the opportunity to visit the prison and meet the inmates without witnesses. i hope that the unilateral nature of this resolution will not hinder our efforts to free the political prisoners and to facilitate a fair election.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, for almost two yeas now the people of bahrain have faced incredible repression and attacks from a regime that is determined not to concede any significant democratic or human rights. the bahrain centre for human rights estimates that over 100 extrajudicial killings have taken place in the last 2 years and over 1 800 people, including minors, were jailed for partaking in protests. the trade union movement has in particular been targeted. numerous cases of kidnappings, torture and sexual violence have been documented. it is sickening hypocrisy that while the major capitalist powers talk about the need for democracy in the region on the one hand, the us and britain, on the other hand, continue to supply this regime with weapons. in particular they have supplied the tear gas which is used indiscriminately against residential areas. all weapons deals with the regime must be cancelled. the us fifth fleet should be withdrawn from bahrain immediately and the eu cooperation agreement with the gulf cooperation council should be cancelled. i reiterate my full sport for bahraini working people, trade unionists and activists in their struggle to change society.
mr president, smes account for 98% of all european firms, providing over 100 million jobs. without doubt, they are the backbone of the european economy. in ireland the 230 000 smes are crucial to the recovery of the domestic economy. yet in ireland there is an sme loan rejection rate of 24%. that is the second highest in europe. clearly, action is needed. the commission’s action plan is welcome, in that it provides for improving access to finance for smes, but there are areas where the report could be strengthened. i commend the rapporteur for some of the recommendations made. it is extremely important that smes in the member states do benefit from the recently approved eur 10 billion increase in european investment bank capital. smes must be targeted and assisted in accessing that funding, for example by expanding schemes such as the progress microfinance initiative. parliament’s resolution strengthens the commission’s proposals. i urge the commission to implement its recommendations.
mr president, the commission’s action plan to help small and medium-sized businesses find sources of finance is a welcome step at this time of extreme difficulty for companies in ireland and the eu. however, whilst the commission’s commitment to reinforce its loan guarantee and venture capital facilities will extend a precious lifeline to small businesses with little or no collateral to offer, we must work beyond the eu budgetary confines. the near collapse of the financial system has been acutely felt by irish entrepreneurs whose efforts and contribution to the real economy have suffered from this lack of liquidity. irish business faces the second highest rejection rate for loans in the euro zone, with lower levels of lending to smes recorded last year than prior to the eu-imf bailout agreement. we have witnessed constructive refusal on the part of the bailed-out irish banks, with systemic delay and missed deadlines that hide the true refusal rates and allow them to evade targets that are themselves too loose.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate mrs parbanova, and i would also like to thank and congratulate mr buşoi on the reports he has drawn up. as you know, the subject we are discussing was the subject of one of the questions put to me during my hearing as a possible commissioner for industry and enterprise. i formally committed myself to the members of parliament to revising the directive during my term of office. i have kept my promise to you and i have put forward a proposal which has three main players who will benefit once the proposal for a directive reform is adopted by parliament and the council. firstly, the economic operators, who need a more favourable environment for developing innovative pharmaceutical products, then the patients, our fellow citizens, who are in favour of this proposal because it would give them quicker access to medicines in a context of greater protection of public health, and finally the member states, who will benefit from this directive because they would obtain significant savings on their national budgets through quicker access to generic medicines. the commission's initial proposal is very ambitious, with the overall objective of modernising the transparency directive by making the rules contained in it clearer and more predictable. it is important to stress that we have kept the spirit of the directive in force today, adopted in 1989, and this means that the legislation provides for a minimum of procedures and preserves the competence of the member states in the organisation of their health insurance systems, pricing and management of reimbursements. madam president, given the political sensitivity and technical complexity of the proposal, we did not expect an easy path. the proposed amendments, which contain compromises and solutions to sensitive issues, also reflect these difficulties. in response to the report, the commission is also prepared to be flexible on the sensitive issues at stake, but it is also important to stress that the commission's aim is to modernise the directive and it would therefore not be acceptable to take a step back from the current situation. we therefore welcome the report by the committee on the environment and accept most of the amendments. more specifically, as regards the time limits, the commission can accept the simplification amendment which would introduce a 180-day time limit for the fixing of prices and reimbursements of medicines. as regards generic medicinal products, it should be stressed that shorter time limits are necessary for these medicinal products because their characteristics are already known. the amendment has solved this difficult problem. the 60-day deadline proposed by the committee on the environment for generic medicines would allow for significant savings in health care, while respecting the different procedural rules in force in the different member states. the commission also supports in principle the amendments of the committee on the environment concerning the appeal procedure and the prior notification procedure. however, as i have already said, we do not intend to take a step back from the legislation in force today. for this reason, we cannot accept some amendments which would have this effect or affect the transparency and certainty of the price-setting and reimbursement processes. for example, as regards the interpretation of the terms, the commission considers that a clear understanding of what is covered by them is necessary to avoid that additional administrative obligations, for example publication, can be used to circumvent the directive. another measure to ensure that the directive cannot be circumvented, and which we believe should be maintained, is to provide for the possibility of requesting price fixing and reimbursement at any time. these are amendments nos 28, 33, 38 and 40. finally, as regards the legal basis, i also support a single legal basis as voted in the juri committee. i would like to close by thanking all of you. i think that the report represents a balanced and pragmatic compromise and maintains the substance of the commission proposal which goes in the direction of parliament's requests. at the hearing, in response to mr grossetête's request, i said that we had to postpone the hearing and therefore move forward, and i remain of that view. going back would be a mistake, as well as useless. i hope therefore that the member states will take account of our position and that of parliament, which i have transposed and am transposing today with the proposal for mediation and compromise which has been presented to us and which i share. but i ask for strong support from parliament - as i have asked for the incorporation of cosme in the next financial perspective - so that this directive, as you have asked me to do, can be made more modern and more effective, bringing benefits to those who are the member states, consumers and also businesses, who are the ones we are addressing and working for. i am convinced that with your help we will be able to convince some members of the council to have a directive on transparency which can ensure a better functioning of the internal market in the common interest of businesses, patients and the member states themselves.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, current legislation in this area from 1989 no longer reflects the increased complexity of pricing and reimbursement procedures in europe. of course there is a difficult balance between member states’ right to organise their public health systems, the need for a sustainable pharmaceutical sector and the interests of patients. i believe we must respect and defend national health authorities’ right to organise their own health systems, understand the diversity in european health systems and recognise the current difficult economic context. i do not believe the eu should be facilitating the pharmaceutical industry if this comes at the expense of good public health procedures and sustainable public health budgets. thankfully, many concerns we had on the proposal have now been removed or addressed in a substantial way. firstly, contrary to its title, the proposal failed to make transparent the real prices paid across the eu, or which patients are getting access to which medicines. without knowing what others are paying, member states are not empowered to negotiate for the lowest price. informed price negotiation can be an effective way to control expenditure. that is why i am happy that the committee vote reinstated the legal basis for the euripid database. this is not a public database, but it is used by over 20 member states themselves to aid their decision-making on medicine pricing. another main issue was the unrealistic time limits on pricing and reimbursement. in the committee vote we have reversed this reduction for originator medicines and doubled the proposed generic time limits. this is a major improvement on the commission proposal. the proposal for sanctions and penalties on member states for missing the time limits has been removed. we also voted for a stop-the-clock process which triggers negotiations if the member states request more information from the company. again, this is a major improvement on the commission proposal. i would like to thank all colleagues who have worked on this report. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – that is a difficult question to answer. i would have to know what you expect the answer to be, in a sense. i would hope that it would not affect employment, but i think you have to balance that against the public health issues and the issues of the pricing for national government.
madam president, a lot could be said about the lack of comprehensive industrial policies over the last couple of decades. we have put too much faith in the markets, which chased short-term profits in finance and diverted resources away from the real economy, with the consequences that we know. today, however, i would like to ask the commissioner for his view on a simple and concrete step we could take to forestall the erosion of our industrial base and even to recover some sustainable jobs. the european union already grants legal protection to agricultural products and traditional foodstuffs originating from specific geographical areas. i would like to propose that we extend that protection to manufactured goods that exploit a geographic area as a brand. a good example of this is waterford crystal, which is a household name for its exceptional craftsmanship, art and quality, both in ireland and abroad. after the traumatic closure of the waterford crystal factory in 2009 and the loss of 600 jobs, the equity firm that acquired the company relocated the bulk of production abroad, but still banks on the worldwide renown and prestige owed to generations of skilled waterford crystal workers over the centuries. surely we can balance the interests of workers, communities with those of companies that wish to invest in, and profit from, that heritage through a system of geographical denomination for certain manufactured goods.
madam president, on 31 march 2013, ireland is due to pay a eur 3.1 billion instalment on a promissory note which was negotiated by the discredited previous government for the now defunct anglo irish bank. this is the bank that was largely responsible for the collapse of the irish economy. as a result, the irish people have been left with a massive eur 30 billion debt, which – truth be told – stems from banks from all over europe that were only too quick to lend to the dysfunctional anglo irish bank during the boom years. ireland is now working hard to exit the troika programme by the end of 2013, but without a fair deal on the anglo irish promissory note, it is hard to see how that can be achieved. there is no doubt that failure to reach agreement, in the 55 days remaining, on the promissory note will have profound implications for ireland’s recovery. achieving agreement on the anglo irish promissory note is clearly in ireland’s interest, but it is also in europe’s interest that ireland obtain a fair deal and regain her economic sovereignty.
thar ceann an ghrúpa alde. – a uachtaráin, cuirimse fáilte roimh an choimisinéir agus go háirithe roimh an uachtarán-in-oifig, simon coveney, anseo inniu. tá áthas ar ndóigh orm deis a fháil páirt a ghlacadh sa díospóireacht thábhachtach seo faoi athbhreithniú ar chomhbheartas iascaigh an aontais agus, ar ndóigh, déanaimse comhghairdeas chomh maith le mo chara ulrike rodust a rinne an-obair. the irish seafood sector employs some 11 000 people and contributes up to eur 700 million annually in national income. the fishing, processing and aquaculture sectors create and maintain jobs in rural, coastal and small island communities, where there is often no source of alternative employment. we have a collective duty, not only in ireland but throughout the union, to these communities. in our country, over 80% of vessels in the fleet are below 15 metres in length, and they fish mainly inshore and from coastal islands. these islands off the coast of ireland are characterised by their dependence on small vessels at the mercy of adverse weather conditions on the atlantic seaboard. this is a unique, dramatic and harsh aspect of the common fisheries policy, and indeed of our european heritage, which we lose at our peril. i am pleased by the support i have received for my amendment on small coastal islands at committee stage, and i am hopeful of the same support at plenary. furthermore, the hague resolution of 1976 reinforces the right to protect, sustain and develop island communities, and i am seeking to enshrine in the reform this commitment which is already recognised in the recitals. decision-making procedures under the new reform must be simplified. i am pleased by the decision of the committee to support my amendment, which recommends the introduction of a standardised control and enforcement regime. it is very difficult to understand how something can be a criminal offence in one member state and be dealt with by an administrative sanction in another member state. this leads to an unlevel playing field within the union. in my view, a common system will help to address key issues surrounding illegal fishing. a move to regional structures is absolutely essential. the issue of discards is a complex and multi-faceted one; it is not a simple one, as suggested by the celebrity chefs. i will continue, in the context of trialogue negotiations, to emphasise again and again that a solution to discards must be based on avoidance and minimisation in the first instance, and appropriate incentives to encourage compliance and stakeholder support. in conclusion, it would be remiss of me, in the presence of the commissioner and the rapporteur for the trade sanctions, not to mention the unsustainable fishing which is being carried out in the north-east atlantic in relation to mackerel. (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an gcoimisinéir agus roimh mo chomhghleacaí, an t-uasal coveney. tá a fhios agam go ndéanfaidh sé an-jab. we have had a wide-ranging debate. there are three points i just want to highlight. the first is the multiannual plans. i think they are absolutely vital and will make a big difference. second, mr nilsson mentioned the importance of sport fishing. i think that is something we should develop far more in terms of tourism both for coastal and for rural communities, and we should not lose sight of that. the third point is discards. thankfully we are beginning to deal with it. it is a failed policy, but it must be addressed in a proportionate and sensible manner so that small-scale fishermen are not discriminated against in the short term. one other point, which i have asked the commission about before, relates to the big factory ships which have mincers on board, catch fish, mince it and dispose of it. are we going to tackle these seriously or are we not? because i think that is fundamental for dealing with the whole discard issue. real determination is needed.
mr president, the common fisheries policy has meant 40 years of unsustainable fishing and it has been a disaster for our coastal communities. it has favoured the large fishing barons who, in pursuit of profit, have used unsustainable methods that have brought our fish stocks to the point of collapse. i support the opposition in this report to the commission’s proposals for individual transferable quotas, which would have amounted to a de facto privatisation of the seas. small and medium-sized fishermen in coastal communities are in real danger of losing their jobs and way of life. the commission’s own projections show employment in the sector is set to decline by 60% over the next 10 years, with the heaviest losses falling on those small and medium-sized fishermen. small fishermen, workers in the industry and coastal communities must be put at the heart of the management of the fishing industry. with planning and democratic management of quotas, they could be assured of a fair income and sustainable use of this vital resource.
in writing. − i believe that it is of the utmost importance to support agriculture in the smaller aegean islands and this is why i have voted in support of this report. agriculture in these islands faces many challenges. the way in which the aegean islands are dispersed presents a major transport issue for agriculture here. i support the proposal to increase the budget appropriations for the special supply arrangements, especially as this will not bring about a decrease in the appropriations for local production. it is also necessary to create more accessible transport links for farmers in the smaller aegean islands in order to reduce the transport costs to which they are subject. overall, i voted in favour of this report as i believe that it will ensure that agriculture plays an important role in the economy of the aegean islands going into the future. hopefully it will not allow the economy of these islands to become dependent on just the tourism industry and therefore it will provide greater economic stability throughout the year, and not just in the tourist season.
in writing. − my vote was in favour of this report as i believe supporting agriculture in the outermost regions is essential to the economy of these regions. the proposed measures allow the implementation issues which exist under the existing regulation to be addressed and resolved. the agriculture sector in some of these regions is in decline, with few alternatives to the crops available for farmers in these regions to cultivate. it is important to ensure that we can protect their agricultural productivity and their livelihoods. i welcome an increase of 20 % in the maximum ceilings established for the specific supply arrangements in portugal and france. this increase will allow greater input for the livestock sector, processing industries and human consumption and will provide extra support which will be fundamental to ensuring the profitability of the agricultural sector in the outermost regions of the union.
mr president, the fact that we had only three votes on this particular report indicates how unanimous the support has been, and listening to all of our colleagues it is obvious that the sme sector has the biggest potential in terms of creating jobs. a number of years ago, as a member of the irish parliament, i had the pleasure of visiting the united states. we see the united states as big, as mega, but what really was impressed me was the fact that 80% of jobs in the united states are provided by enterprises with fewer than 20 employees, and that is the direction in which we should be going. can i say in relation to the venture capital fund that it is excellent, the money is there, but an awful lot of would-be entrepreneurs do not know about it? we need to advertise it. last, but by no means least, i agree with all my colleagues in relation to bureaucracy. bureaucracy is the silent killer which has killed more would-be jobs than anything else. the very last thing i will say is, in relation to the sme sector, let us monitor it on an ongoing basis. it has huge potential.
a uachtaráin, d’fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht seo inné ó thús deireadh agus cé gur chuir mé mo lámh suas chun aird a tharraingt ag an tús, níor glaodh orm – rud nach raibh mé róshásta leis. ach bíodh sin mar atá, bhí an díospóireacht suimiúil agus corraitheach agus bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na moltaí anseo inniu. gan dabht ar bith, is é cúrsaí airgid agus airgead a fháil ó na bainc an fhadhb is mó a bhíonn ag fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide. tá gach fianaise ann go bhfuil an bie ag cur an t-airgead ar fáil ach go bhfuil sé an-deacair ar na fiontair é a fháil. dúirt beirt fheisirí ó mo thír féin inné, an feisire prendergast agus an feisire costello, go bhfuil ag teip ar 25 % de na hiarratais agus tá eagla ar a lán fiontar eile freisin cur isteach ar an airgead ar an gcúis chéanna. dá bhrí sin, caithfimid dul i ngleic leis an bhfadhb sin agus freisin an fhadhb a bhaineann leis an téip dhearg. má dhéanfaimid é sin, déanfaimid dul chun cinn maith.
in writing. − i voted to support this report as i believe that it is essential to facilitate the growth of smes in europe. if we provide our smes with the means to become successful, then this will help the economies of the member states to become more successful. smes provide much employment and they are a great source of innovation; this is something which we need to support, especially in the current economic climate. improving access to finance for smes will ensure the survival of smes and these smes will help us on the road to economic recovery through their future innovation and growth, which will lead to more employment being created by smes throughout europe. along with this, we must reduce the levels of bureaucracy faced by smes. by doing this, we will make work easier for smes and this will surely be welcomed by business people throughout europe. we must also simplify and shorten the bankruptcy procedures faced by entrepreneurs when their businesses are not successful; after all, it is not a crime to try or to fail. this would give our entrepreneurs a second chance and would help smes throughout europe and subsequently help the economies of the member states.
blue-card question. – i wonder whether mr martin would agree – given that the european union is a work in progress, and that the berlin wall came down to everybody’s surprise only at the end of 1989 – that following the greatest economic crisis since the late twenties and early thirties, the capacity of the union to respond has been nothing short of miraculous. would he also agree that it is not entirely up to political institutions to solve the problems we face? does he agree that it is about time that the business community stepped up to the plate and took on some of its responsibility, given that the union has put in the foundations necessary to justify that confidence?
madam president, as i was walking down the corridor towards the chamber here i saw a number of signs that were probably there for mr hollande earlier. they said: ‘stop talking and start doing’. that made me think of the question: are we in parliament, in council, the member states and the commission doing enough? because for citizens, terms like ‘european semester’, ‘annual growth survey’, ‘europe 2020’, are just words, they mean very little. really what they want to know is: are we doing enough and will we deliver what we promise? perhaps the answer to that can be found in the commission’s own documents. for example, the draft joint employment report for 2012 tells us: ‘slowing growth hampers the already weak employment recovery and prevents an improvement of the employment rate...while the situation of young people has worsened. ... long-term and low-skilled unemployment are increasing across the union…putting social safety nets under stress… and accompanied by new risks of long-term exclusion’. if we look at the macro-economic report it is every bit as bad, because it tells us that the eu’s economic growth is faltering. it speaks of a lack of confidence and how this is weighing heavily on future economic prospects. that is what the documents tell us. so what do we do? do we do more of the same or do we consider alternatives or modifications? these are important political choices to be made and commissioner rehn has said that today. one of the political choices that we can make is how we manage fiscal consolidation. in our report from the committee on employment and social affairs – and i want to thank our rapporteur ms lope fontagné for her work on this – we ask for differentiated fiscal consolidation to apply across different member states and for it to be managed in a growth-friendly way. we also ask for programmes to be evaluated with regard to the impacts on growth and social inclusion, and for social indicators alongside economic ones. finally, we ask the commission, along with the imf, to look again at their fiscal multipliers that have consistently underestimated the impact of consolidation on growth, because, commissioners, if we do not have good data, then we cannot make good policy decisions.
mr president, president barroso recently declared that adjustment programmes carried out by member state governments must be sensible and carry social and political consensus to ensure such efforts are sustainable. i was left wondering if he had read the commission’s annual growth survey for 2013 at all. it predicts a 0.1 % growth for europe this year and it had predicted more of the same austerity measures that have been sucking the life out of our economies. yet the economic and monetary affairs commissioner rehn has so far failed to give us any sign that he will pursue, or pause to ponder on, the imf’s recent downgrading of growth forecasts, as well as the imf reports acknowledging how their models consistently underestimated the recessionary effects of the structural adjustment policies demanded of countries such as ireland. i have requested to meet with commissioner rehn, the imf and the ecb to discuss this and learn how you intend to correct your approach. i am yet to hear back from you, commissioner. i understand that you do have a very busy agenda, but these are crucial matters for the citizens most hurt by this crisis. they expect politics grounded in reality, not this pursuit of the same old models.
mr president, across europe we face a crisis of mass unemployment, falling wages and the complete destruction of public services. the policies of austerity that have created this crisis are being extended and now we are being forced by the commission, as austerity policeman, into the process of the european semester. this is not a policy in the interests of the economy as a whole. it is to pay for the crisis of big business, of bankers and of bondholders. recent figures that the minister should be aware of, compiled by michael taft of unite, illustrate the extent of this –the fact that people in ireland are paying for an incredible 42% of the european banking crisis, despite making up less than one percent of the population. those who try to lay the blame for this crisis on the public sector or on working people should have a look at a recent report from mckinsey consultants, hardly a bastion of socialist thought. they demonstrate that there has been a decline in private investment in the eu of eur 350 billion, four times the decline in gdp, while there is currently eur 750 billion in excess cash holdings of major multinationals. what the figures illustrate is that they are sitting on mountains of profits which continue to increase, yet refusing to invest, while 26 million people face enforced unemployment. we need a radical break with the logic of the profit system. we need to refuse to pay the bankers’ debts, we need massive public investment to create jobs and we need democratic planning of investment for the benefit of our society as a whole.
mr president, shakespeare wrote a play at the end of 1598 entitled ‘much ado about nothing’. he obviously was not writing about csr, which had not been invented in his day, but he could have been, because when you look at the actual actions of big business as opposed to their lofty corporate social responsibility declarations, the gap is very large. let me give two illustrations, examples, to prove the point. the spanish clothing giant inditex, for instance, states in its csr code of conduct that manufacturers and suppliers shall provide a safe and healthy workplace for their employees, including fire prevention. inditex used the bangladesh factory as a supplier, the factory where seven workers were burnt to death because they were locked in and unable to escape. unfortunately, it is not alone. in a similar way, shell produces sustainability statements every year. it does not stop them trying to process and dry raw, untreated gas close to peoples’ homes in the west of ireland. it did not stop them engaging in extremely dirty activities in nigeria, polluting water for thousands, being implicated in the killing of the ogoni nine, including ken saro-wiwa. for companies like shell, csr is a greenwashing tactic while they continue to rake in the profits at a staggering rate of eur 2.5 million an hour in 2011. these multinationals will always put the pursuit of profit ahead of any voluntary csr commitments. therefore, as a minimum, they should be mandatory, legally binding and enforceable, but really we need democratic public ownership to ensure major corporations act in a socially responsible way.
mr president, i want to thank mr howitt and mr baldassarre for this important report on the need for a european corporate social responsibility strategy. good corporate social responsibility policies will be indispensable if there is to be a restoration of trust in business and a sustainable economic recovery, and so the commission’s shift from a purely voluntary approach to csr to developing an eu wide strategy is, i believe, seminal. the new emphasis on strengthening and implementing international standards, moving from process to outcome, is a sign of eu determination to maintain social standards in the face of the crisis. csr must respect fundamental principles and rights such as those specified in ilo conventions, including freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the prohibition of forced labour, the abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination at work, and these must be respected by subcontractors and supply chains, including those based in third countries. finally, i completely endorse the rapporteur’s recommendation on the need for an awareness and education campaign among smes that csr is for all companies.
mr president, i would like to say a few words in relation to the word ‘solidarity’, which has been used a lot here during the debate this morning. i feel an obligation, as coordinator for the european people’s party on the committee on development, to speak about solidarity with citizens in the developing world. mr cameron’s name has been mentioned here several times this morning. can i say that i am a great admirer of mr cameron and his government for their actions in committing to meeting their 0.7% contribution to the developing world. indeed the rest of us could learn, in terms of solidarity with the developing world, from the actions of the british government. that is said by somebody who does not share a lot of mr cameron’s views. the reality of the matter is this: while we are talking about our own constituents – and they do face difficulties and we do need to have solidarity with them – that solidarity should not end within the european union. by 2050 the population of the world will have increased by two billion people, 90% of whom will born into what is now the developing world, where 23 000 children die each day. that is 23 000 children today and 23 000 children again tomorrow and 23 000 children every single day while the budget negotiations are going on. mr barroso had to propose an emergency food regulation about two years ago. i was the rapporteur dealing with it and we had to get it through parliament. our humanitarian budget makes up something like 0.62% of the budget, yet we are proposing to cut that money. it is petty cash as far as we are concerned. it is life-giving as far as these children i am speaking of are concerned. in heaven’s name, do we have to cut our development budget further? when our gni goes down, fine, our contributions go down, but we should not bring down the payments even further than that. i make a special plea, not for me, not for my constituents, not for votes, but for the people who are dying each day. please fight for this budget for the developing world.
mr president, let me pick up where my colleague, mr lamassoure, has just finished. i think the message to the council – and i know minister creighton will convey this message – is that the european parliament is watching very closely not just the figures, but the structure of the budget. i see that sources are saying that there would be far-reaching and serious consequences for the european union if we do not have an agreement over the coming days. i think that is true, but remember that this is only the first step. if agreement is reached, this house has got to have its say. i think that a few comments on agriculture were negative. let me say something very positive about the common agricultural policy. this is a policy for jobs, for stable markets, for growth, for rural development and for increased environmental delivery, and we have been asked to do this with potentially less money and to redistribute money to those member states – the new member states – who rightfully are looking for more. so there are a lot of demands being made on this policy. we in the committee on agriculture and rural development will certainly watch closely what the council agrees.
madam president, from the outset i want to thank the house for their support in november and january in deferring my report on technical conservation measures. the whole purpose of deferring the vote was to focus attention on the impasse between parliament and the council of ministers on the issue of long-term management plans. no progress had been made on these important plans since the introduction of the lisbon treaty in 2009; and this was by sucessive council presidencies. long-term management plans will be a key cornerstone of the new and reinforced common fisheries policy – which we have just recommended – as the purpose of these plans is to protect fishery resources while ensuring the livelihood of communities depending on fisheries. last week the issue was discussed by ministers under the irish presidency. the irish minister confirmed to the chair of the committee on fisheries, gabriel mato, that the council will make every effort to find an acceptable compromise. so as a gesture of goodwill the committee on fisheries have decided to go ahead and vote on my report today. however, the committee, let me say a note of warning, will closely monitor developments over the next number of weeks and if no progress is made we will review our position and we may – hopefully only may – be forced to block the adoption of further reports if necessary.
in writing. − i welcome and support the agreement with the united states. with the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu, the trading rights of the us were impacted and it is right that they are now properly restored. i also agree with the decision of the commission to use the increase in tariff rate quotas as the method by which to compensate the united states. my wish is that, following on from this, we will be able to work further on developing our trade links with the us.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadows for the work they have done on this important issue. it is absolutely vital that we work to create greater transparency of the measures regulating the price of the medical products. it is also very important that we do this now, as the directive in effect is completely outdated. the conditions present in the pharmaceutical markets are vastly different to the ones which existed when the previous directives were put in place. more medical products are now available thanks to medical advances and generic medicines. they are now more readily available to the consumer and they are cheaper. furthermore, the directive in force, which dates from the 1980s, must be replaced. otherwise it will be increasingly challenging for the member states to implement it. we have adopted an excellent measure today; the time limits laid down by the previous directive are not feasible in the modern day. so it is a good day’s work.
i scríbhinn. − is cinnte gur chóir inniúlacht na mballstát maidir le praghsáil agus aisíocaíochtaí táirgí íocshláinte a chosaint ach ní foláir freisin go ndéanfaimis iarracht cóir leighis ar phraghas réasúnta a chur ar fáil do gach uile dhuine san ae. fearaim fáilte roimh an moladh i dtaca le tréimhsí feithimh níos gaire a chur i bhfeidhm do dhrugaí cineálacha, a bheadh chun leasa tomhaltóirí agus córais sláinte phoiblí, agus tacaím go hiomlán le hiarratas an rapóirtéara maidir le trédhearcacht na gcóras praghsála agus aisíocaíochta do tháirgí cógaisíochta a fheabhsú. cé go bhfuil laghdú tagtha ara bhfuil á íoc in éirinn ar dhrugaí ar oideas, tá an chosúlacht ar an scéal go bhfuil tomhaltóirí agus cáiníocóirí éireannacha ag íoc dhá oiread agus atá á íoc sa fhrainc, sa spáinn agus sa bhreatain. aontaím gur chóir go mbeadh solúbthacht ann do na ballstáit an treoir seo a chur i bhfeidhm de réir a rialacháin féin ach ní foláir go mbeadh na húdaráis náisiúnta ag tabhairt aghaidhe ar dhifríochtaí i bpraghas ó thír go tír agus ag cinntiú go bhfuil teacht ag daoine ar chóir leighis ar phraghas réasúnta agus nach bhfuil sailleadh á déanamh ar na ballstáit agus táirgí íocshláinte á gceannach.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it will allow us to move towards ensuring that every european citizen has access to affordable medical treatment. the conditions present in the pharmaceutical market of today are vastly different to those which existed when directive 89/105/eec was enacted. with many medical advances having occurred and greater accessibility to generic medicines, citizens can now have much cheaper access to medical treatments. however, the time limits laid down by directive 89/105/eec are not working for our member states and they are instead creating delays in the entry of new generic medicines to the market. replacing this directive will further facilitate the entry of such generic medicinal products to the single market and this can only benefit consumers and all european citizens by enabling them to have access to treatments which are more affordable, while also creating greater transparency in the measures regulating the prices of medicinal products.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo agus caithfidh mé mo chuid buíochas a chur in iúl do bhean uí rodust, an dréachtóir, agus bean uí fraga estévez, an leasdréachtóir. is iad na príomhfhadhbanna a bhaineann leis an gcomhbheartas iascaigh ná nach bhfuil na cuspóirí sách dírithe ar inbhuanaitheacht chomhshaoil, eacnamaíochta agus shóisialta agus go bhfuil leibhéil arda d’ábhar muirí aischurtha nach féidir glacadh leo. lena chois sin, tá roinnt mhaith cabhlach thíos le brabúsacht íseal agus stóinseacht eacnamaíoch íseal. níl ceisteanna comhshaoil sách comhtháite leis an mbeartas agus bíonn easpa sonraí iontaofa ann chun measúnú a dhéanamh ar na stoic agus ar na cabhlaigh ar fad. caithfidh mé a rá gurb é tús maith leath na hoibre, an méid a bhfuil déanta againne inniu, agus tá tús maith déanta againne maidir le hathchóiriú a dhéanamh ar an gcomhbheartas iascaigh.
a uachtaráin, cosúil le feisire eile, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo agus freisin, cosúil le feisire eile, molaim an rapóirtéir agus na feisirí a d’oibrigh go dian dícheallach ar feadh mórán ama ag cur na moltaí go léir le chéile. bhí áthas orm go háirithe gur glacadh le dhá mholadh; ceann amháin a bhaineann le héisc mharbh a bheadh á chaitheamh ar ais san fharraige – níl aon tairbhe leis sin, ach tiocfaidh an moladh seo isteach de réir a chéile agus ní thiocfaidh sé isteach thar oíche, rud nach bhfuil róshásúil do na hiascairí. chuir an dara moladh áthas orm gur glacadh leis na ‘hague preferences’. vótáil mé i gcoinne an ghrúpa maidir leis an gceann seo agus tá áthas orm go raibh feisirí timpeall orm a rinne an rud céanna. tá sé sin an-tábhachtach d’iascairí mo thíre féin agus iascairí eile. agus mar a dúirt an tuasal ó huigín – tá tús maith déanta againn anseo inniu agus tá súil agam go mbeidh níos mó iasc san fharraige amach anseo agus beidh gairm bheatha níos fearr ag iascairí dá bharr.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the rodust report on reform of the common fisheries policy, and particularly the proposals on: ending the practice of discarding fish at sea (starting 2014); moving towards quotas that respect maximum sustainable yields (from 2015) and to multiannual plans and regional structures; taking full account of local communities that are especially dependent on fishing and related activities when allocating quotas. i also welcome the overwhelming rejection – by 620 votes to 36 with 4 abstentions – of amendment 214, which sought the effective abandonment and dismemberment of the cfp. since overfishing is a europe-wide, indeed a global problem, it is obvious we need a common european approach. but we do need a reformed cfp. one that seeks to put an end to overfishing and to allow fish stocks to recover, to secure a sustainable future for fishing communities, especially small-scale fishermen, and achieve more jobs in this sector. the very large majority in favour of this report, as well as parliament’s enhanced role in the cfp under the lisbon treaty, put the rapporteur in a strong position to negotiate with the council which, under the irish presidency, wants to reach agreement by july.
in writing. − i believe that this report greatly strengthens the common fisheries policy and this is the reason why i voted in favour of it. sustainability is a very important issue with regard to fishing and i fully support the establishment of a legally binding obligation with regard to the maximum sustainable yield. along with this, the discard ban would be a major step forward for the common fisheries policy, although this should be done on a gradual basis for practical reasons.
madam president, noise pollution can have a major impact on people’s lives and can lead to many illnesses, as we know. the noise made by motor vehicles is one of the main contributors to noise pollution; reducing the noise emitted by vehicles is an absolute necessity and we must facilitate such a reduction in any way that we can. these noise levels do not only come from the vehicles themselves. for instance we have other contributory factors such as road surface, and the type of tyres used on a vehicle can significantly contribute to the noise levels from a vehicle. vehicles need to have a sound identification system where consumers can see which vehicles emit various sound levels. there are already labelling systems in place to identify the levels of co2 created and the tyre noise associated with it, so why is there not a labelling system already in place to deal with the sound level of motor vehicles? i think this report is good but i do not think it goes far enough, and it is only if we adopt its basic tenets, but also actually add to it, that we are going to have for the future a more positive outcome than we have had up to now.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm freisin tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo a bhaineann le truailliú agus is dóigh liom gur thug bean yannakoudakis an-achoimre ar fad ar na príomhphointí. madam president, we have been concerned, obviously, about pollution, and the environment has probably got most of our attention. but it would be good for us to move on to noise pollution – particularly in open areas, caused by vehicles of all sorts. it is a good idea to try to reduce this over a period of time so that it will not discommode the manufacturers too quickly. we also have to be conscious of small enterprises, as was pointed out by vicky ford, and ensure that they would not be put out of business by trying to comply with directives too quickly. nevertheless, what we are doing is a good thing. i think we should also move on to look at noise indoors, especially from music bands and so forth, who often confuse noise with talent. we should move onto that next.
in writing. − the european commission green paper on noise from 1996 estimated that around 20% of the then eu population suffered from noise levels that scientists and health experts consider to be unacceptable and a 2012 who report stated that traffic noise is the most widespread environmental problem, harming the health of more than one in three eu citizens. 210 million people, over 44% of the eu population, are regularly exposed to road noise over 55 decibels, a level recognised to pose considerable risk to health according to who. in this regard i voted this support this timely report on the protection of public health and the environment through measures to reduce the sound level of motor vehicles. furthermore, as noise standards for road vehicles have not been updated for 20 years, it is clear that this regulation is long over due. i support the additions in this report regarding the provision of information to consumers on the sound level of motor vehicles. the commitment to simplification is also to be commended as directive 70/157/eec and 12 related directives will be rescinded and replaced with this new comprehensive regulation.
in writing. − i welcome the provisions of the ouzky report introducing acoustic vehicle alerting systems (avas) for electric and electric-hybrid cars to better protect pedestrians, cyclists and especially people with sight problems. however, i voted against the resolution as a whole because the progressive report adopted in committee, which proposed ambitious noise limits for new vehicles, was overturned in plenary in the face of strong industry lobbying. research by the european environment agency shows road traffic exposes half of the population in large cities such as dublin to noise levels above 55 decibels, while a 2007 dutch study on traffic noise reduction in europe reported that 1.3 million people in ireland are exposed to traffic noise above these levels. after air pollution, traffic noise has the biggest impact on health, especially for people living on low incomes or in disadvantaged areas as these are usually closer to roads with heavy traffic. high levels of road traffic noise can cause disturbed sleep, stress, cardiovascular disease, strokes and psychiatric problems – the 2007 dutch study linked noise pollution to 50 000 fatal heart attacks across europe. i do regret that parliament did not adopt a more ambitious first reading resolution on vehicle noise.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as a reduction in the sound level of motor vehicles will help to protect public health and will inevitably reduce levels of noise pollution. it has been found that the noise level of motor vehicles can contribute to the development of many illnesses and, hopefully, by reducing permitted noise levels, we can work towards making society healthier in the future. perhaps this will allow for the introduction of a labelling system to allow consumers to identify which vehicles are big noise polluters and which are not. there are already labelling systems in place to identify the levels of co2 created and tyre-noise emitted. i believe that this is something which must be done in relation to the sound level of motor vehicles. also, placing minimum noise levels on hybrid and electric cars is important, as it ensures pedestrians will be able to hear these vehicles and it will therefore increase safety levels on our streets.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the torvalds resolution. this approves the commission’s proposal to amend, until the end of 2013, the co-financing rate for the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals, the european refugee fund, and the european return fund for member states (such as ireland) taking part in troika programmes or that have agreed bilateral loans with the eu. this would raise the standard co-financing rate for projects supported by these funds from 50 % to 70 %, and from 75 % to 95 % for projects addressing specific eu priorities. i would add that this does not adjust the overall allocations to those member states under these funds. nor does it prejudge co-financing rates for the 2014-2020 period. the ‘new communities partnership’ in dublin is receiving much-needed eu support at present from the european integration fund to support the integration of third-country nationals in ireland. i would hope that this amendment would allow continued eu support for this progressive project and similar projects across the eu.
madam president, today’s vote is a triumph in some respects for the power of parliament when it stands up to the council when necessary. the rapporteur, mr gallagher, made that point when he came before us some months ago and we decided to postpone the final vote because there was not proper cooperation from the council. since then, as a result of negotiations, there has been a promise that this cooperation would be forthcoming. hopefully that will ensue, because long-term fishing plans are absolutely vital. when you are talking about a resource like fish in the sea, long-term planning is essential, particularly to preserve stocks and to allow them to grow into the future. it makes absolute sense. what is needed here is a meeting of minds, taking a broad view of what is good for the environment, what is good for fishing and what is good for citizens generally. but at the end of the day, it all comes down to discussion and cooperation. the council have to cooperate. mr gallagher has made his point clearly and we support him fully in that.
in writing. − i believe that it is very important to make sure that fish stocks are fished in a manner which is not only sustainable but also in a manner which does not destroy the ecosystems of the fish and that is the reason why i have voted in favour of this report. as the technical measures under the cfp will not be coming into force before 1 january 2014, we must support the extension of the technical rules in place for a transitional period. these measures relating to the rules on fishing gear, such as the net mesh used by fishermen, are essential in order to ensure sustainability, protect ecosystems and also protect the safety of fishermen throughout europe. on this basis, i am glad to support this report and the measures proposed within it.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the resolution on the forthcoming session of the un commission on the status of women: elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls. the eu must play its part in ensuring that ambitious conclusions are agreed at this session. in 2010, the commission committed itself to presenting – by the end of 2012 – a strategy to combat violence against women, domestic violence and female genital mutilation, to be followed up by an eu action plan. it is very disappointing that the commission has yet to live up to this commitment. i urge it to do so without any further delay. an eu strategy should cover in particular the signing and ratification by the eu and the member states of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, as well as the stepping up of efforts to end fgm worldwide, which affects 8 000 girls daily. over 500 000 girls and women in europe are living with the consequences of fgm.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm a bheith ag caint sa díospóireacht thábhachtach seo. aon rud a dhéanann iarracht dul i ngleic le fadhb na coiriúlachta, go háirithe mar a bhaineann le cáin agus go háirithe leis an gcalaois cánach agus leis an gcáin bhreisluacha, is fiú tacaíocht a thabhairt dó. gan dabht ar bith tá moltaí maithe anseo agus mar a dúradh, tá moladh mór ag dul don rapóirtéir, david casa – ní féidir leis a bheith anseo – as ucht an dea-obair agus na moltaí simplí ach éifeachtach atá á gcur os ár gcomhair, agus cabhraím leis sa mhéid sin. mr president, mr bloom made reference to the fact that criminals are always cleverer than politicians. i would like to ask him to prove that. maybe it is true in his case, but there are many clever politicians. criminals are not necessarily cleverer. they may be more devious, and obviously spend their whole time trying to commit crime. but this at least is a good reaction in trying to counteract that difficulty. the quick reaction mechanism, which is reducing the time frame from about eight or nine months to one month, certainly will be very effective and worth introducing with a view to making the reverse charge mechanism effective. i think everybody will support that. the logic is undeniable. what it is costing the european economies is extraordinary. the commissioner pointed out that eur 5 billion was lost in greenhouse gas emissions in the space of a few months. carousel fraud cost us eur 14.8 billion in 2005 and 2006 and, as my colleague mr rübig pointed out, fraud of all kinds is costing our economies an amount equal to our entire budget. for that reason we must put not just these proposals into operation, but also the mechanisms and the tools behind them to make them effective. because if you can justify expenditure in any area it is an area like this, where you are reducing fraud and growing income tax for legitimate governments and purposes. also, of course, you are helping legitimate and compliant companies to survive and grow. we are talking about trying to get out of recession and, particularly, develop smes: this is one of the most effective ways of so doing, because if you reduce the amount of fraud and the number of companies operating illegally, you will make it easier for genuine companies and compliant companies to be effective. finally i want to say that the irish presidency is very pleased, and has this as one of its priorities, and is going to bring forward a paper in two weeks’ time to make progress on this.
i scríbhinn. − os rud é go mbeidh 35% d’eorpaigh thar aois 60 faoi 2050, ní foláir dúinn beartais an aontais a dhíriú ar an aosú gníomhach folláin. de réir an daonáirimh is déanaí, tá breis is milliún duine thar 60 in éirinn anois. tacaím leis an rapóirtéir maidir le machnamh a dhéanamh ar oiriúnú réigiún, cathracha agus ceantar tuaithe an ae do phobal atá ag dul in aois. is as ceantar tuaithe dom féin agus de réir mo thuairimse ní mór dúinn dul i ngleic freisin le fadhb an uaignis i measc daoine aosta. tá seirbhísí riachtanacha á mbaint faoi láthair ó cheantair tuaithe in éirinn, rud atá ag cur go mór leis an uaigneas agus an scoitheadh ón saol sóisialta do dhaoine aosta. ní foláir go gcuirfí an t-uaigneas agus an scoitheadh sin ar chomhchéim le deacrachtaí eile an aosaithe. ní mór go mbeadh bearta chun dul i ngleic leis an uaigneas agus an scoitheadh sóisialta ar chroílár beartas ar bith a bhaineann le haosú gníomhach folláin. murach sin, tá an baol ann go beartas ó bharr anuas a bheadh á chur i bhfeidhm, nach mbeadh in ann aghaidh cheart a thabhairt ar bhunfhadhbanna an phobail atá ag dul in aois.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as, with the european union currently going through a major demographic transition, i felt it is more important now than ever to plan for our future. this is especially the case as it is projected that there will be around 151 million people in europe over the age of 65 by 2060. the majority of places and urban centres in the european union are not prepared to cope with the demographic transition that is taking place, along with the increased urbanisation of the european population. it is for this reason that we must develop a coherent strategy to transform these places into ones which are suitable for, and friendly to, europe’s ageing population. i believe that the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing is a very important step in this regard and i am glad to support it. i also feel that the involvement of regional and local policy-makers in this partnership, along with the increased participation of older people, makes this a very worthwhile proposal indeed.
in writing. − i welcome the majority of this report as it deals with healthy aging in a comprehensive manner, including calls for improvements to the education and health systems and it also calls for the promotion of active aging, supporting independent living and opposes stereotyping and gender discrimination. however i abstained as i could not support the part of paragraph 43 that called for reforms to pensions systems in order for ‘more coherence to be established between the effective retirement age, the official retirement age and life expectancy’. after decades of working and contributing to society, all workers deserve a long retirement on a decent pension, free from financial worry. i reject the idea that the economic crisis or demographic changes mean that the retirement age should be increased. workers should not pay for crisis through attacks on their pension schemes. increasing the retirement age will mean a drastic cut in people’s living standards in old age and a recipe for increased profits for big business and for the financial industry in particular.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s new definition of corporate social responsibility (csr) as ‘the responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society’. this is recognition of the fact that csr cannot just be seen as a purely voluntary mechanism by business, an expensive ‘add-on’, but that it is in fact integral to business strategy and indeed a key factor for competitiveness. corporate social responsibility is not separate from the economic crisis. it was central to its causes and to our recovery from the crisis. confidence is needed to help member states’ economies recover and building trust in business is essential to achieving this confidence. moving from short-term to longer-term thinking is not just a challenge for the financial sector but for all firms, multinationals and smes alike. the commission should now come forward with a robust legislative proposal on non-financial reporting by companies over the coming months, and also tackle the problem of excessive bonuses. i also hope that it will respond positively to parliament’s call for proposals to combat misleading and false information regarding commitments to csr and relating to the social and environmental impact of products and services, over and above the requirements of the unfair commercial practices directive.
in writing. − corporate social responsibility (csr) is something which every business should have. defined as ‘the responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society’, i believe it would be beneficial for every business to have in place a process to work to reduce the adverse impacts their work may have upon society. while doing this, businesses should also work to integrate their responsibilities to society into their method of practising business. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that instituting corporate social responsibility into enterprises will not only benefit them but also society.
in writing. − i have voted to support this report as i believe that corporate social responsibility (csr) provides a means by which smes can restore consumers’ trust and confidence in them and i also believe that it provides businesses with an opportunity to increase their competitiveness. this report acknowledges the importance of integrated sustainability along with transparency as key drivers in promoting and establishing csr and this is a fundamental point with which i agree. hopefully, csr will become a widespread business practice as that would be beneficial for both smes and european society. this could be advanced through integrating teaching about csr into business schools and establishing it as common knowledge among the future business leaders within europe.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm páirt a ghlacadh sa díospóireacht seo ar maidin agus bhí beagnach gach feisire i bhfabhar na moltaí atá curtha os ár gcomhair ag an bhfeisire, david casa – ní féidir leis a bheith anseo anois, mar tá sé ag glacadh páirt in olltoghchán i málta. bíodh sin mar atá, tá moladh tuillte aige agus tá na moltaí seo an-tábhachtach ar fad chun déileáil le fadhb uafásach do na ballstáit. tá sé ag cosnú na mballstát ní hamháin na milliúin ach na billiúin euro in aghaidh na bliana agus cabhróidh na moltaí go háirithe an sásra mearfhreagartha go mór chun déileáil leis an bhfadhb. cabhróidh sé sin go mór mar laghdóidh sé an t-am gur féidir linn rud éigin a dhéanamh ó hocht mhí go mí amháin, agus déanann sé sin an-difríocht. ba mhaith liom freisin a rá go bhfuil sé seo an-tábhachtach freisin d’uachtaránacht na héireann sa sé mhí atá againn san uachtaránacht anois agus tá siad ag tabhairt isteach páipéar seachtain ón lá amárach chun na moltaí seo ag cur i bhfeidhm agus cabhróidh sé sin go mór linn.
in writing. − tax evasion costs member states eur 1 trillion annually. between june 2008 and december 2009, eur 5 billion was lost as a result of fraud in greenhouse gas emission allowances. this new directive would amend the vat directive to enable member states to respond more quickly and effectively to sudden vat fraud such as carousel fraud. at present member states have to apply for a derogation from the vat directive when fraud is discovered. this can take up to eight months to agree and requires unanimity in council. this new directive would allow a temporary derogation by means of a qualified majority vote pending subsequent adoption by council by unanimity. member states could then introduce a quick reaction mechanism (qrm) within one month to combat sudden vat fraud, while longer-term measures are prepared and introduced. this directive does not compromise the principle of unanimity on tax matters. it is a pragmatic and effective temporary solution to the problem of vat fraud. i welcome the fact that the adoption of this directive, which must form part of a wider long-term strategy to clamp down on vat fraud, is a priority of the irish presidency.
in writing. − i am disappointed that in this report, parliament was unable to support the calls and recommendations set out in the lope fontagne report (at0024/2013), which was also voted today, for growth-friendly fiscal consolidation that takes country-specific situations better into account, as well as for targeted social investment in training, education and life-long learning. this undermines the coherence of parliament’s message to the commission and to the european council, and i fully understand the decision by the rapporteur elisia ferreira to disassociate herself from the adopted report.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo maidir leis an seimeastar eorpach agus caithfidh mé a rá go bhfuil moladh mór tuillte ag na daoine go léir a d’oibrigh go dian ar feadh na mblianta beaga anuas chun an seimeastar eorpach a thabhairt isteach. maidir leis an tuarascáil seo, vótáil mé agus mo chomhghleacaithe ó fhine gael leis an ngrúpa cé is moite de dhá leasú: uimh. 33 ar theip air agus dá bhrí sin ní fiú níos mó a rá faoi – ach i gcás an dara ceann vótálamar i gcoinne an ghrúpa agus ina fabhar ná iarscríbhinn 211 uimh. 9. is é atá i gceist leis sin ná go bhfuil sé ag iarraidh ar an gcoimisiún níos mó airgid ó na cistí struchtúracha a chur ar fáil do na tíortha a bhfuil dífhostú de raon uafásach iontu. is dóigh liom gur ciallmhar an moladh é sin agus tá súil agam gur féidir linn cabhrú leis na tíortha sin chun jabanna a sholáthar do na daoine atá dífhostaithe.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the lore fontagne report. the european union will not achieve the europe 2020 strategy targets, especially the ambitious employment, education and social inclusion targets, if we do not promote growth-friendly fiscal consolidation that takes country-specific situations fully into account as well as targeted social investments in training, education and life-long learning. the commission must reassess and recalibrate its economic models on the impact of the multiplier effect in light of new evidence. there also needs to be a much deeper involvement by parliament and by the national parliaments in the european semester process of economic policy coordination. i welcome the emphasis now being placed on the scourge of youth unemployment, which currently stands at almost 25 % across the eu and 30 % in ireland. i hope the youth guarantee draft recommendation can be approved by the council, under the irish presidency, later this month and that this will be backed up by sufficient eu funding, particularly under the eu 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. it must also be accompanied by a quality framework to ensure quality and decent training, apprenticeships and jobs for all participating young people.
in writing. − article 3(1) of the treaty on european union outlines the purpose of the eu as being to ‘promote peace, its values and the well-being of its people’. article 3(2) provides that is shall ‘establish’ an internal market but that it shall ‘work for’ a social market economy aiming at full employment and social progress. the single market is in short a means to an end, not an end in itself. i therefore welcome the emphasis in this report on placing the single market in the context of wider eu policy areas such as consumer and worker protection, social rights, the environment and sustainable development; on the need for the single market strategy to strengthen social welfare, convergence and workers’ rights, to prevent social dumping and ensure fair working conditions for all; and on ensuring the principle of equal treatment for all workers. the single market is one of the eu’s main achievements. a single market which is economically, environmental and socially balanced holds out great potential for economic recovery, employment and social cohesion. i would urge the commission, the council and the member states to carefully consider and act upon this resolution.
a uachtaráin, d’fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht ar an mbanc seo ar maidin ach bhí orm dul amach do chruinniú eile mar a tharlaíonn de ghnáth leis an gcuid is mó de na feisirí. ach theastaigh uaim ceist amháin a chur orthu. deirtear go forleathan go bhfuil an banc infheistíochta eorpach ag cur airgid ar fáil do na bainc, ach nach bhfuil an t-airgead sin á thabhairt amach ag na bainc do na fiontair mheánmhéide agus bheaga. tá a fhios againn i mo thír féin gur thaispeáin suirbhé gur theip ar 25 % de na hiarrataí agus freisin nár bhac 20 % eile ar iarratas a chur isteach ag lorg iasachta. cad is féidir leis an bie a dhéanamh? tá sé sin an-tábhachtach. ach ar deireadh thiar thall, tá an-obair á dhéanamh ag an bie agus molaim iad as an gcomhoibriú a thugann siad dúinne.
in writing. − ireland currently receives approximately eur 500 million per annum in long-term investment loans from the eib. these loans are being used at present to develop the esb network, to support bord gais’s development of renewable energy, to provide new educational and student facilities at ucd, to build and refurbish primary and secondary schools, to replace water mains and upgrade drinking-water and wastewater treatment facilities, and for onward investment to smes, amongst others. i welcome the eib governors’ recent decision to confirm the eur 10 billion increase in the eib’s capital. this should allow the eib to increase lending by up to eur 60 billion and to leverage total investments of up to eur 180 billion by 2015. however, such investment would still amount to just 0.5 % of eu gdp so further increases in the eib’s capital are needed to support growth and jobs in ireland and all across europe. i would urge the eib to prioritise smes particularly by increasing support for the eu’s sme access to finance initiative and by ensuring that loans to banks for onward lending to smes do actually reach smes. sme funding is a major problem in ireland and in many other member states.
mr president, like many speakers, i too am concerned about the disappearance of sombath somphone, particularly the way the car was stopped by the traffic police and then driven away by civilians on 15 december, which is almost two months ago. while the government in laos has denied any involvement, i think it is reasonable to state that we think they could do more at least to find him and return him to his family. the disappearance of mr somphone unfortunately is not a one-off, as mr posselt pointed out. it is symptomatic of what unfortunately happens in many countries where dissenters are invariably arrested, tortured and sometimes killed. so we are certainly right to highlight the case of mr somphone here. he is renowned around the world for his work in trying to reduce poverty and to get fair land rights for small farmers: hardly criminal offences. the lao authorities could certainly help with the situation by declaring that the disappearance of people of this nature should be a criminal offence.
mr president, thank you for giving me the privilege of finishing the debate. i must just say that, of all the issues we have debated here in parliament, this is the one that i find most difficult to comprehend. here we have a country – one of three in the world – suffering from the infectious disease of polio, a vaccine that has been proven to eliminate it around the world and workers for reputable ngos being shot, wounded and killed as they go about the course of their work. it makes absolutely no sense. i think that what is needed is an information campaign or a conference of some sort where the authorities, both political and religious, the warlords and tribal leaders are brought into a room, shown the history of polio, how it was eliminated in other countries and ask them whether they want this to happen in their country or do they not. if they say ‘no’, suspend the vaccination. let us not put genuine people at risk any longer until a bit of commonsense prevails.
a uachtaráin, ar an chéad dul síos ba mhaith liom agóid a dhéanamh go bhfuil idirdhealú á dhéanamh ag an pharlaimint seo i gcoinne teanga náisiúnta mo thírse; maidir leis an ghaeilge. tá sé seo á dhéanamh le sé bliana anuas. tá suíomh gréasáin ag an pharlaimint seo in 22 theanga agus tá teanga amháin nach bhfuil ar an suíomh gréasáin sin, cé go bhfuil sí le fáil i gcomhairle na nairí agus sa choimisiún. mr president, i am making a charge of discrimination against this house. (the president interrupted the speaker)
mr president, i must say that i am very pleased with the direction and the tone of this debate and the previous one and think that, in particular, the rapporteur and the commissioner made very wise and sensible contributions. obviously, europe has to put competitiveness at the very top of its agenda. if we want a competitive europe, we do of course need energy that is affordable and a range of energy sources, and to have an open mind on what is available. i would obviously like to have more renewables and i think that can be done, but that does not mean the exclusion of everything else. anybody with a bit of common sense knows that you need a mix. for that reason in particular, i was pleased to hear the rapporteur saying that we must not have too dogmatic an approach. we must allow for the fact that technology is constantly improving, and we therefore have to keep an open mind on how we can address various issues which may be problematic now, but actually can become environmentally friendly and competitive and sensible in the future.
a uachtaráin, táim glan i gcoinne a bhfuil sa tuarascáil ag an choiste um ghnóthaí bunreachtúla maidir le comhdhéanamh pharlaimint na heorpa agus toghcháin na bliana 2014. creidim go bhfuil an tuarascáil sin, a mholann go laghdófaí méid na bhfeisirí eorpacha atá ag éirinn ó dhá chloigeann déag go dtí a haon déag, claonta i gcoinne na mballstát beag cosúil le héirinn. nuair a toghadh mise go parlaimint na heorpa den chéad uair sa bhliain 1994, bhí 15 fheisire againn. tá an líon sin tar éis dul síos go dtí 13 agus 12, agus anois tá sé molta é a laghdú go dtí 11. beidh mise ag vótáil i gcoinne na tuarascála ar an gcéadaoin, ach is ag an chomhairle eorpach atá an focal deireanach agus tá an rogha agus an chumhacht ag rialtas na héireann stop a chur le ciorrú ar bith ar ionadaíocht na héireann i bparlaimint na heorpa. táim ag iarraidh go tréan ar an rialtas an veto atá aige a úsáid le hionadaíocht na héireann a chosaint agus guth agus tionchar na tíre i bparlaimint na heorpa a chaomhnú.
i scríbhinn. – a uachtaráin, tá an-dochar déanta do mhuinín tomhaltóirí san earnáil talmhaíochta eorpach ag an gcamscéim bhia a nochtadh le déanaí. is léir dúinn anois go bhfuil laigí sa chóras inrianaitheachta, go bhfuil sé fíor-éasca camscéimeanna bia a chur i bhfeidhm agus slabhra an tsoláthair bhia a chur i mbaol. níl sé maith go leor gur faoi údaráis na héireann a bhí sé aird a tharraingt ar an bhfadhb seo. ba cheart go mbeadh córas faireacháin agus deimhnithe i bhfad níos déine i bhfeidhm don slabhra soláthair uile in ae. ní mór dúinn bearta leathana a chur i bhfeidhm chun cáil, ardchaighdeán agus inrianaitheacht táirgí eorpacha a atógáil. aontaím gur chóir ainm feirmeoirí a chosaint ón smál atá á chur ar an earnáil ag gníomhaíochtaí calaoiseacha, coiriúla atá á ndéanamh ag daoine agus ag grúpaí áirithe. tá an-chuid oibre déanta ag feirmeoirí agus páirtithe leasmhara na hearnála chun a chinntiú go féidir an bia a tháirgeann siad a leanúint ón bhfeirm go dtí an forc. ní mór dúinne, lucht déanta beartais ae, comhoibriú anois leo siúd chun a chinntiú nach dlí fíorúil atá sna bearta dlíthiúla atá i bhfeidhm chun tacú leo ach gur fíordhlí é a thabharfadh cosaint dóibh agus dá slí bheatha.
madam president, i would also like to congratulate louis grech on his wonderful appointment. he is a good colleague. i would like to agree with other speakers in relation to goods and services regarding consumers. 500 million is a lot of people. i think this gives us an opportunity to do something really positive for consumers in relation to this legislation because – as has been previously stated – a lot of people are very put off by the cost of going to court. once we get an agreed resolution process, this could be very much used. it will be up to every mep of the 27 – soon to be 28 – member states to put out the word that shoddy practices will no longer be acceptable to people.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh ár n-aire lucinda creighton as ucht teacht anseo. molaim í agus ár naire dlí agus cirt, alan shatter, as ucht an dea-obair atá á déanamh acu chun déileáil leis na fadhbanna móra seo. i would just like to make a couple of points. firstly, commissioner reding asked us to support further funding for remembrance programmes. i agree completely with her on that point, because they can get to young people and show them what the result is of these terrible practices in reality. that certainly needs to be upscaled. secondly, as a sportsman myself, i have been somewhat alarmed at the increase in racism during matches and in play generally. all sports organisations need to get to grips with this again to stamp it out. i know my own organisation back in ireland, the gaelic athletic association, has a programme called ‘give racism the boot’ and that is what we need to do.
madam president, firstly i would like to point out that the names on the board are in the wrong sequence. tá áthas orm tacú leis an moladh seo mar tá fuinneamh an-tábhachtach do thodhchaí an aontais eorpaigh agus go háirithe tá sé tábhachtach go mbeimid in ann fuinneamh a gluaiseacht trasna na heorpa go héasca. this is a very important report. i think for the competitiveness of europe, a cheap energy supply and also a consistent energy supply is going to be vital. we have seen the way things have happened in the united states where instead of being importers they are now exporters of energy, and it is way cheaper than before. we are in competition with them. renewables are not always reliable, the wind does not always blow, therefore if we are going to have more renewables having the infrastructure to avail of these and to move energy around is going to be of major importance.
madam president, firstly, again a point of order. i think that for at least the third time my good friend whom i greatly admire, mr hannan, has used the explanation of vote to talk about a topic that has nothing at all to do with what we are discussing. what has the falklands referendum to do with what we are discussing here? i think that should just be pointed out. regarding this proposal here before us, i was pleased to support it, as were 638 others out of 680 who voted. i think we can be pleased in europe that we are on target and have been on target to meet our commitments under the kyoto protocol and certainly the 2020 proposal of 20 % reductions in emissions is also going to be reached and hopefully exceeded. that is something we can be proud of. the only point i would make is in regard to land use, etc. that is also very important, but we should ensure that we do not put too much bureaucracy in the place of farmers trying to meet these commitments – just in case that might happen.
a uachtaráin, tá an-áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo mar is dóigh liom go bhfuil siad an-tábhachtach ar fad. tá sé d’aidhm againn go mbainfidh saoránaigh agus lucht gnó níos mó úsáide as an idirlíon. chun an gnó sin a chothú, tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh muinín ag saoránaigh as an ngnó seo ar an idirlíon. go háirithe má bhíonn gearán acu, go mbeadh seans acu déileáil leis an ngearán sin go tapaidh, go féaráilte agus go héifeachtach. cabhróidh an réiteach malartach díospóide (adr) leis sin a dhéanamh agus tá sé sin an-tábhachtach. rud amháin a mholfainn – agus ní aontaíonn gach duine liom faoi seo – ná gur chóir go mbeadh costas éigin ag baint leis, cúig euro nó deich euro ar a laghad. mar mura mbíonn an costas sin ann, an-seans go mbainfear mí-úsáid as an ngnó seo.
i scríbhinn. − is tráthúil atá sé, agus níos mó agus níos mó tomhaltóirí ag siopadóireacht ar líne agus leis an gcaidreamh idir díoltóirí agus tomhaltóirí go minic ina chaidreamh tras-teorann na laethanta seo, go bhfuil suíomh idirghníomhach gréasáin curtha ar fáil ionas go mbeadh láthair tosaigh cinnte amháin ann chun aighnis áirithe a réiteach gan dul chuig na cúirteanna, cosúil le haighnis chonarthacha i gcás earraí nó seirbhísí a dhíoltar ar líne nuair a bhíonn an díoltóir bunaithe i mballstát amháin agus an tomhaltóir ina chónaí i mballstát eile. táimse den tuairim, áfach, nach bhfuil na córais shaorálacha atá i bhfeidhm chun aighnis a réiteach uaillmhianach a ndóthain agus nach gcuireann siad réiteach ar fáil i gcás díospóidí inmheánacha intíre. ní mór, ar mhaithe lena chinntiú go mbíonn tionchar dearfach ceart ag an tseirbhís, go gcuirfí clár ama cinnte i bhfeidhm do phróiseáil na ngearán faoin gcóras seo. anuas air sin, tacaím le moltaí i dtaca le ról na lárionad eorpach do thomhaltóirí a neartú ionas go mbeadh muintir an ae in ann freagraí a fháil iontu ar a gceisteanna tomhaltais ar fad agus molaim go ndéanfaí níos mó chun tomhaltóirí agus lucht trádála a chur ar an eolas faoin tseirbhís sin.
madam president, it is now almost three years since commission president barroso announced what he called a silent revolution in terms of stronger economic governance by small steps. what that meant is using the economic crisis, caused by neo-liberal capitalism, to go further in imposing a model of authoritarian neo-liberalism in europe. the latest step is this so called ‘two-pack’, going further again in institutionalising neo-liberalism and austerity polices. it gives the commission the power to request a revised draft budgetary plan: in other words, to demand the rewriting of national budgets if they do not contain enough cuts, if they do not achieve a sufficient degree of austerity as defined by the commission. it imposes economic partnership programmes and enhanced surveillance, whereby countries not in receipt of so-called bail-outs will effectively be in troika-like programmes, with cuts imposed and supervised by the commission. this entire onslaught against democratic rights in order to ensure that austerity is carried through – a policy which is generating increased profits for the rich and increased misery for the rest – has plunged the eurozone back into recession.
a uachtaráin, ní den chéad uair é, tá an-jab déanta ag mo comhghleacaí, jean-paul gauzès, leis an tuarascáil seo, ar tuarascáil í a bhaineann le cúrsaí eacnamaíochta. tá na moltaí seo ciallmhar; agus tá sé sin feicthe sa vóta a fuair sé: 528 i bhfabhar as 680. tá sé seo ag baint le tíortha atá i ndiandainséar. ceann de na tíortha sin is ea mo thír féin, agus gan dabht ar bith tá sé an-dian agus an-deacair ar shaoránaigh. ach ag an am ceánna, tá dul chun cinn cuimsitheach á dhéanamh againn; agus is maith san. tá sé ciallmhar, ag an am céanna, go mbeadh cead ag an aontas súil a choimeád orainn amach anseo, i dtreo agus nach mbeadh seans ag páirtithe polaitíochta toghcháin a cheannach trí rudaí a gheallúint do na saoránaigh agus go mbeidh daoine eile ag íoc as amach anseo.
madam president, i voted in favour of the two pack to improve economic governance in the eurozone. it is right and proper that countries sharing a single currency should work together with the commission on their budgets. we will not achieve sustainable growth in jobs on the back of uncontrollable public deficits. however, closer monitoring of national budgets must uphold the eu’s values and objectives, and must go hand-in-hand with greater solidarity within the eurozone. i therefore welcome in particular the emphasis on respecting social dialogue and national wage systems, the enhanced role for meps, the commitment to speeding up the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, the commitment to the implementation of the 2012 employment package and a commitment to examine ways of better reconciling our productive investment needs with fiscal consolidation. finally, i warmly welcome the agreement to establish an expert group to study the partial mutualisation of debt in the form of redemption funds and eurobills.
i scríbhinn. − is ceann de dhá phíosa reachtaíochta i dtaca le rialachas geilleagrach ar a nglaoitear an ‘dé-phaca’ é tuarascáil ferreira. baineann an ‘dé-phaca’ leis an limistéar euro amháin agus is comhlánú é ar an ‘sé-phaca’ a achtaíodh i mí na nollag 2011. is comhordú agus maoirseacht níos doimhne ar phleananna buiséadacha sa limistéar euro a bheidh mar thoradh ar reachtaíocht an ‘dé-phaca’. déanann tuarascáil ferreira togra an choimisiúin a fheabhsú trí bhearta a chur leis a chinnteoidh go dtabharfaidh pleananna buiséadacha náisiúnta tuilleadh airde ar fhás agus go ndéanfaidh sé fostaíocht a spreagadh. tá bearta nua eile i dtaca le breis trédhearcachta agus le freagracht dhaonlathach curtha ag an bparlaimint leis an togra. faraor, tá tagairt i dtuarascáil ferreira san aithris nua 13(b) ar chomhbhonn cánach corparáide comhdhlúite (cccc) a thabhairt isteach. táimid glan i gcoinne cccc a thabhairt isteach. ina ainneoin sin, toisc go bhfuil gnéithe eile na tuarascála ríthábhachtach d’éirinn, vótálamar ina fabhar.
in writing. − we abstained on the vote on the amended proposal because of amendment 31, as we have reservations against the implications of such ‘swift’ actions for member state decision-making.
madam president, last week in parliament i had the honour of hosting a major science conference called ‘global science, global collaboration’, where we had over 1 200 delegates from around the world. one of those who attended was a lady by the name of barbara james, the foremost venture capitalist in africa. venture capital is absolutely vital and if what vicky ford said a while ago is true, then it is time that we woke up in europe and smelled the roses, as they say, because between 2003 and 2010 the us spent 131 billion on venture capital, and the european union a paltry 28 billion. is it any wonder we are at an uncompetitive disadvantage? this needs to be addressed as a priority. thankfully, it has been taken on board here, because for businesses that are small, that are starting out, venture capital is what will make them successful, hopefully. we are going in the right direction.
madam president, the social economy accounts for approximately 10% of all european undertakings and a whopping 11 million jobs. the principal aim of social undertakings is to make a positive social impact – usually at a very local level – rather than simply to make profits for shareholders or other stakeholders. at present those undertakings are mainly financed through public grants or donations; we know, though, that public finances are under enormous strain. the eu has to help social undertakings find alternative sources of funding so that the sector can grow. i very much welcome the agreement reached with the council under the irish presidency to set up a european investment instrument to support this sector and to show that finance can and must play a role in supporting the social economy. this new regulation will foster the development of social investment, diversify funding for the social economy and help to support sustainable inclusive growth and jobs.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála tábhachtaí seo agus tacaím lena bhfuil inti maidir le fáil réidh leis na bacainní atá i bhfeidhm san eoraip faoi láthair trí bhíthin simpliú a dhéanamh ar na rialacha i dtaca leis an bhfiontraíocht shóisialta – earnáil a chlúdaíonn 10% de ghnóthais an aontais agus ina bhfuil 11 mhilliún duine fostaithe. tacaím leis an togra i dtaca le pas eorpach a chur i bhfeidhm chun a chinntiú go mbíonn sraith rialacha amháin ann san aontas ar fad agus chun dul i ngleic leis an rómhaorlathas agus leis na rialacha tónáiste casta atá ann i láthair na huaire. aontaím leis an rapóirtéir a mhéid a bhaineann leis an bhfás inmharthana a spreagadh ionas go mbeadh tíortha agus pobail a bhfuil deacrachtaí faoi láthair acu ó thaobh an mhaoinithe teoranta atá ar fáil dóibh in ann breis maoinithe a fháil. ní mór dúinn cúnamh a thabhairt do na tíortha agus pobail sin foinsí eile maoinithe a bhaint amach ar mhaithe le pobail áitiúla a fhorbairt agus a fheabhsú.
madam president, the crisis cannot be allowed to undermine the goal of a more equal europe, but there has been no serious consideration at european level of the impact of the crisis on women. women make up 70 % of public sector employees across europe. they are consequently disproportionately affected by reductions in public service employment levels. also, women tend to use public services more, and cutbacks in these services are more likely to affect women than men. so we need to integrate a gender dimension into all our policies aimed at recovery, and i am calling on the commission to propose specific gender equality targets in its macroeconomic and employment guidelines. it should include the gender equality dimension in its efforts to promote social investment, and it should table a draft directive which would be needed to reduce the gender pay gap, which currently stands at 16 %. member states should be encouraged to carry out gender impact assessments on fiscal consolidation measures. the crisis is more likely to have a lasting impact on female employment, thus jeopardising in the long term the progress which has been made in the field of gender equality.
madam president, last thursday on international women’s day the imf’s christine lagarde made a speech in dublin in which she defended austerity measures and said that the irish government should be proud of the standard it has set. if that is true, then women all across the world should be very worried, because that standard is one where in 2011 there were 2 537 occasions when domestic violence refuges could not accommodate women because they were full. that standard has seen a war against lone parents, 93 % of whom are women. in 2014 they will lose their allowance when their child reaches seven, in a country with mass unemployment and next to no public provision of childcare. this standard-bearer is also dragging its feet in providing any basic abortion rights. it has taken the tragic death of savita halappanavar and thousands on the streets for the government to consider, even, legislating to protect a woman’s life. we need the repeal of the eighth amendment of the irish constitution. we need the provision of safe, legal, free abortion in the irish healthcare service for all women who request it. we need to defeat the austerity agenda and demand investment in proper public services.
madam president, it is impossible to sum up our work in two minutes, so let me be very direct here. the cap will be significantly different after these reforms, despite what colleagues think and say. we are deepening the environmental delivery and linking 30% of direct payments to environmental measures, which is a major reorientation. secondly, we will see an end to the historic-based payment system still used in several member states, but the change will be gradual and measured, as it has already been in those countries which have moved towards a flat-rate payment. my own view, commissoner, is that attempting to do both in this round of reforms is highly ambitious and extremely difficult. let us see where it leads us. nevertheless, those of us in the negotiating teams have worked diligently to reflect the issues of concern. so, on direct payments we have attempted to target greening measures to where they will have a real effect. we have decided on a more realistic introduction of ecological focus areas to reflect farming realities. we have worked for results, not news headlines, and i believe that a phasing-in of this proposal, combined with the european innovation partnerships for agriculture under pillar two, will result in the proper integration of environmental practices into normal farming activity, and that is what we should be trying to achieve in this house, rather than a piecemeal forced adoption by farmers of measures that they have not bought into. on the issue of this so-called double payment, i agree with jim nicholson: this has to be thrashed out in trialogues. if organic farmers are green by definition, then agri-environment farmers should also be given the same consideration – and, commissioner, you have always given me an indication that this is your view – please clarify. the budget has been cut. we are not talking about double payments; we are talking about deducted payments. lastly, be wary of the linking of payments to land. i have a real concern as an economist that this will embed the payments into land ownership and increase land rental values. it does nothing for sustainable agriculture or the competitiveness of farmers across europe; let us tread carefully.
mr president, flexibility for member states is key to a successful policy, one which will work for active productive farmers and which will protect public goods in the face of pressures on resources and the environment. workable, flexible solutions can be found if the council takes the options presented by parliament on board and works with us to deliver a policy which will ensure the continued viability of farming. regarding the specifics, the key issues i wish to highlight are ensuring equality and fairness in the distribution of pillar 1 payments. we must target the cap at active, productive farmers working sustainably with a mind towards greening and protection of our natural resources without strangling them with green tape. secondly, clarity needs to be introduced without delay in relation to payment entitlements, to avoid the growing uncertainty and increasing land speculation in this sector. it is the active farmers we wish to see this policy working for, not speculators and sofa farmers. thirdly, it is important to ensure that any transfers from pillar 1 to pillar 2 are co-financed by the member state. we cannot have a hollowing-out of pillar 2. without adequate, fair and equitable direct payments for active farmers, european agriculture will cease to be productive and competitive. finally, the sheer volume of amendments submitted to the cap reform underlines that a ‘one size fits all’ cap policy cannot and will not work for european agriculture. a blanket eu top-level-down approach is not feasible and in keeping with the reality of farming.
mr president, i want to speak today about the abandonment of the small farmers in ireland during this round of reforms, which has not actually come from europe – nor in fact from our government, as some would contend – but rather has come from their own farm lobby. rather than standing up for small and medium-sized farms, which constitute the largest segment of irish farms, the ifa has attempted to suppress the truth about the current round of reforms, namely that the majority of farmers’ direct payments would increase as a result of the initial commission proposals and subsequent compromises tabled by the presidency. instead, the ifa have brought up arguments such as food security, achieving the harvest 2020 targets and supporting productive agriculture. these are ‘straw men’ – arguments designed to hide their real ambition, which is to keep the rich farmers rich and leave the average farm family struggling. i would like to extend my support to the irish presidency’s compromise amendments which, and i quote, ‘take account of the greater labour intensity on smaller farms and the economies of scale of larger farms’. if you grasp this proposal – presuming that it is implemented – the number of people whose payment would increase is higher than the number of people who would lose. the losing farmers are the ones with the largest farms that benefit most from economies of scale.
mr president, the reform of the cap takes place in the context of two crises – an environmental crisis and an economic crisis for small farmers and rural communities. unfortunately, what will emerge from this process will not assist in resolving either. industrialised capitalist farming is threatening our environment. ninety-two percent of rivers, lakes and aquifers in the eu are affected by pollution or habitat change. i therefore oppose the amendments that water down the already limited greening proposals. payments must be linked to environmentally-sound practices. thirty-four percent of farming households in ireland are now classified as economically vulnerable. it is vital therefore that income for small and medium-sized farmers is protected by the cap. however, across europe, 80% of direct payments go to just 20% of farmers, with big agri-business, ranch farmers and landlords benefiting – including the queen of england, who received eur 0.5 million in 2009. this situation must end, with payments being focused on small and medium farmers. i therefore support the proposal from our group of eur 100 000 for a cap in cap payments that would free up eur 4.8 billion that could be used as part of a major plan of public investment to assist small farmers in developing economically- and environmentally-sustainable farming.
mr president, i like the rapporteurs, but i do not like their report. this is supposed to be degressive proportionality in action. in actual fact it is a manifestation of depressive disproportionality, as it discriminates against many member states, especially small ones which, one year off from elections, do not know how many meps they are going to have and what their constituencies are going to be. this discriminates against small member states in particular. it should be kicked down the road in 2019 and four years prior to that, in 2015, we should have certainty on what is going to happen, based on population projections – ireland has the fastest growing population in europe – and perhaps based on communities – you have two communities in northern ireland and there is a case for having four rather than three meps if we want proportional representation – and on a minimum number of meps, not per state, but a minimum number of citizens represented by an mep. all these things need to be looked at. that would be fairness, done independently. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to say that i am calling on the irish government to use its veto at the european council meeting. ireland has only 12 seats out of over 750, which means we are already stretched to capacity to ensure that irish voices are heard on key issues such as the cap. if the number of seats is reduced, it will become even more difficult to follow legislation across the 22 different committees in parliament. we need seat allocations which are weighted and which allow minority voices such as ireland’s to be heard. if we compare germany’s 99 seats with ireland’s 12, it becomes clear to see the challenges we face in making sure small peripheral countries such as ireland remain at the heart of europe’s decision-making. i am calling for ireland to use its veto to prevent this undemocratic and unfair reallocation.
mr president, i, like my other irish colleagues, cannot support this report which proposes to reduce the number of seats for ireland and croatia. the report, in my opinion, runs completely contrary to the principle of digressive proportionality. small and medium-sized countries are suffering at the expense of the larger countries. the key principle of digressive proportionality is that countries with smaller populations should have a more favourable ratio of population to seats than the larger member states. the current proposal does not achieve this. italy has a far more favourable ratio than spain. under the current proposal, ireland, with the fastest-growing population in the eu, would lose a seat and would have a worse population ratio than finland or slovakia, which have almost a million more people. ireland and croatia would see a more radical change in their ratio of population than any of the other countries which will lose a seat under the current proposals. this has considerable implications for the effective representation of ireland, particularly across the 22 committees. ireland is a peripheral country… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, first of all can i say that we are all in here, it seems to me, doing specialist pleading, including me, and dressing it up as if it were some sort of disinterest. look, the reality is that we are being judges in our own cause, and that is wrong in principle. let me ask this question: why do we need 751 seats? the treaty says that is the maximum amount. if we were being fair about this and said that we would take one off everybody, we would reduce by 27. then, those with 90 seats would go down by one ninetieth, we would go down by a twelfth. i could accept that, but we have gone down from 15 to 13 to 12, now to 11. that is the proposal when our population is soaring. this is not right and i do not believe that the principle of digressive proportionality has been determined. this may well be challenged in the courts. the geese think it is a great idea because they are not losing. the ganders do not think it is a great idea because … (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to tell the rapporteur that her message has been very well received and that, of course, the european commission is watching closely not only what parliament says to it but also what parliament wants, because, quite simply, we want the same thing. we want the fundamental rights of citizens, whatever they may be, to be safeguarded and i can assure this parliament that this year we will put european legislation on accessibility on the table - i do not see the french term now, accessibility probably - which was promised and provided for in the pipeline; it will come. i absolutely agree with the rapporteur when she says that the economic downturn and the ageing of the population - because the two go together - are putting a great deal of pressure on the social protection system. the financing of social services is becoming more and more difficult, and at the same time we know perfectly well that the need to find new impulses for growth raises the relevance of the employment rates of all segments of the population, and here i include the employment rates of persons with disabilities. we also all know that people with disabilities face more obstacles than the rest of the population, and this is the case even in times of growth. so imagine what it is like in times of problems: less employed, less educated and poorer than their fellow europeans. this situation is even worse when there is an economic crisis. certain groups of citizens are increasingly vulnerable and at risk of exclusion. i would like to quote a recent study commissioned by the european foundation centre's consortium on human rights and disability, which stresses that reducing spending on welfare and social services may result in a disproportionate increase in numbers of people with disabilities losing their jobs. there is no horizontal link, but it is exponential and is very damaging to this part of the population. the foundation centre's study has looked at six member states: ireland, greece, portugal, spain, hungary and the united kingdom. they are all member states experiencing an economic downturn, and the evidence that the eu cannot ignore is that this has an exponential impact on people with disabilities. you may also know that in the european semester the relevant country-specific recommendations for estonia, denmark and the netherlands have numerous references to disability-related matters in the staff working documents. you know that the commission is currently working on the recommendations for the 2013 cycle, and i do not believe that things have got better; in fact the opposite is true. for us, disability is a cross-cutting issue, and we make a real effort to include this problem, this social reality, into all our policies. i would just like to quote the europe 2020 and growth strategy, which is one example among others. this is why the recent social investment package underlines the need for member states to invest in services which enhance human capital, raise people's capacity to participate in society and the economy, and strengthen people's ability to cope with risks. this is also why the commission's proposals for the regulation of the european social fund identify 'access to affordable, sustainable and high quality services, including health care and social services of general interest' as one of the six investment priorities. this includes the development of integrated social and health care services aimed at preventing the institutionalization of the most vulnerable groups, because this is another problem which i believe we have already discussed several times in this house. sorry to speak now about social market economy logic, but it also has to be integrated, because there is a chance to develop certain segments of the social market economy. i just want to refer to the so-called white jobs jobs in the health and social sectors which are a key driver for jobs growth. i would also like to refer to so-called green jobs in the green economy and jobs in the digital services. here we do have a real growth possibility, and this has been taken up in the annual growth survey of 2012, where the commission recommends that member states set up initiatives to facilitate the development of these sectors. let me just give you figures for so-called white jobs: 22 million people were working in such jobs in 2010; 1.5 million more are expected to join by 2020, amounting to 10% of all employment in the eu. health and social services account for between 5% and 13% of gross domestic product, bringing with them added value worth eur 800 billion per year to the european economy. i know now that i will immediately receive from this parliament - and rightly so - the answer that paying for these jobs in the white sector is under high pressure. this might be so, but i nevertheless think that we have to have a look at these sectors in order to see how we can develop such jobs, as well as jobs in the area of integrating persons with disabilities. then we have to look at the tax policies, because there can be and there are in many member states tax incentives to push the ability of firms to hire people with disabilities and encourage them to stay or re-enter the workforce. this then brings me to the piece of european legislation on which we base most of our actions in this domain, namely council directive 2000/78/ec: a general framework for equal treatment. it has been transposed into national law by all member states, and the member states are responsible for the application of this legislation in individual cases. the commission is keenly monitoring how the member states are applying this council directive in their national law. in 2013 that means this year i will come up with an implementation report on this directive, which we will then certainly discuss in this parliament. i would also like to say a word about the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. you know that the european union is a member of this convention and that i have been continuously pushing member states to enter this un convention. this year the commission will publish its first report to the relevant un committee on how the eu is fulfilling its obligation under the convention, and at the same time we will review the progress made in implementing the european disability strategy to which the rapporteur has referred. i have said that in the middle of this year we will come up with a legal framework for accessibility, which i think will be extremely important not only for disabled people, but also for age-disability, which is growing in our european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, at a recent conference on disability in the european parliament, a colleague of mind, valerie moran, who is manager of the centre for independent living in longford in ireland, put it very simply when she said ‘persons with a disability are always more at risk from poverty, and they are always more likely to be in poverty, but under an austerity regime they have no chance’. that is why we have tabled this question to the commission this evening because, while the impact on ordinary eu citizens who are living under an austerity regime is very severe, it is much worse for persons who have a disability. that is why the commission and the member states must take pro-active steps to ensure that those who have a disability do not become further marginalised. indeed that is one of the reasons why the committee on employment and social affairs called for social indicators alongside economic indicators in the european semester. over the past few years in ireland we have seen cuts to services, to personal assistant hours, and most recently to mobility allowance. this allowance allowed persons who are unable to walk some opportunity to interact socially and even to go to work. now many people are at risk of being prisoners in their own homes. my real fear in all of this is that we will undo many years of good work, and dismantle or seriously weaken inclusion policies and structures that we have painstakingly built up. but my biggest fears centre on a number of issues. firstly, persons with a disability will be seen as a burden to the state. at a recent meeting in the committee on employment, a representative from belgium spoke of the mindset, now much more prevalent, that sees a person in a wheelchair as a liability. ‘you take up my tax money’, was a comment that was frequently heard. secondly, we are moving from the social inclusion model to a medical model. thirdly, carers, and particularly family carers, are overburdened and stressed. finally, reduced welfare spending, reduced services and higher unemployment among persons with a disability, will lead to ever increasing numbers of persons with a disability living in poverty.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i took the initiative, alongside many disability groups to push for this discussion in order to highlight the cruel reality of the impact of austerity policies. such policies have a disproportionate impact on those with disabilities, with higher levels of unemployment, cuts to vital public services and independent living support. in ireland, amongst a myriad of cutbacks, we have seen massive cuts to personal assistant hours and the ending of the payment of a mobility grant. these austerity policies amount to more than just some extra hardship. they are a violation of human rights, in my opinion. the disability rights movement has struggled for decades against institutionalisation and for the right to be treated with respect and dignity. it has fought for supports to allow people with disabilities to fully participate in society, allowing them to have basic rights: the right to work, the right to rear families, the right to pursue an education. all of these are threatened. people with disabilities are not passive victims. they have fought back courageously. i commend, for example, the campaign in ireland against cuts to home-help hours. it shows how austerity can be fought through struggle and linking up with the trade union movement and other movements. all of this is not inevitable. it is a political choice. the political establishments across europe have chosen to put the banks, to put the rich, to put the privileged ahead of people with disabilities. there is an alternative: to break with the dictatorship of the markets which says that the vast wealth held by the major corporations in europe cannot be touched, and that the debt owed to the rich bondholders must be paid, regardless of the social cost.
mr president, over 18 million people, or around 16 % of the european union’s population, are living with disabilities. the employment rate for people with disabilities is about 45 % and the unemployment rate is at least twice as high as that of people without disabilities. the poverty rate among people with disabilities is 70 % higher than the average. across europe, people with disabilities are disproportionately affected by cutbacks. this is particularly the case in programme countries like ireland. there has been insufficient attention so far at eu level and by the troika to the impact of cutbacks on people with disabilities. commissioner, we would like to know how the commission can ensure that the needs of people with disabilities are reflected in the macroeconomic employment guidelines to prevent discrimination. what is the commission going to do to ensure that member states work to improve and adapt their active employment policies to enable people with disabilities to both enter and remain in the labour market? can we use the recently launched social investment package to reduce marginalisation of people with disabilities, enabling them to access care in the community and to remain at home? we have an obligation to take positive and direct action to protect the most vulnerable in our society and to ensure that their fundamental rights are vindicated.
mr president, we in ireland have experienced half a decade of austerity since the near collapse of the global financial sector, which those in power decided to save at the expense of our citizens and our taxpayers – and seen from the perspective of its proponents, austerity is a common-sense approach to save money you cannot afford to spend. i wanted to bring some stark examples to the attention of commissioner rehn, who predictably is too busy revising growth forecasts downwards to meet me or come to my constituency of munster and see its effects on real people with real needs. in ireland the immobility allowance contributed to enabling people to live independently and actively in the community. that is going to be discontinued in four months and there is a question mark over what future scheme will replace it. funding for home help services to the elderly was greatly reduced and recent reports estimate that 14 % of all pensioners with a disability receive no support services. resource teaching for children with learning difficulties was greatly reduced and special needs students lost 45 minutes of learning support. i would appreciate the commissioner’s response.
mr president, i think we do not need to consult our citizens, we know what our citizens want. they want an end to the sort of crisis we are in. when we use terms like growth, competitiveness, solidarity – who can be against those terms? then what do we do in practice? we bring in a minimalist mff. every assistance short of help. in ireland, this cash flow comes under control, albeit in a way that needs fairness. confidence is returning in terms of investment, but this is going to take time. we need growth: even a small amount of growth to get out of this mess; and growth is too low. i do not hear the word stimulus. i never hear the word stimulus being used. we do not need the european council to look at a whole list of regulations. we need a european council meeting to deal with one issue: stimulus. what do we have a european investment bank for? what worked in the past? maybe we have to wait until after september for this to happen, but the european economy and our member states need stimulus. stimulus works when countries are working, when people are paying taxes: we can refund. when they are not, we cannot. so let us stop this business of consulting people, let us stop being book-keepers. let us give some leadership and, above all, let us have a meeting dedicated to the word stimulus. it is time we gave the economy some stimulus.
mr president, minister creighton told us that europe has to show it can get on with business, but what business does the minister want us to get on with? it is the business of cuts, cuts and more cuts that will damage people’s lives and drive economies further into recession. look at the mff budget proposal. we are in a recession in the eurozone and we have a proposal for the first multiannual cuts budget yet: not cuts to meps’ salaries, not cuts to bloated expenses, not cuts to military expenditure, but cuts to programmes that could provide jobs and growth, cuts to cohesion funds of eur 30 billion, cuts to funding for developing broadband services and, most scandalously, a 70% cut to the globalisation adjustment fund. not content with the capitalist crisis and austerity throwing a generation of workers on the scrapheap, the european council wants to effectively scrap a programme that has offered them some assistance. it is a budget proposal not to create growth but to impose austerity policies with the introduction of so-called macroeconomic conditionality, tying cohesion funds to the implementation of commission diktats. it should be rejected by this parliament.
mr president, a point of order in relation to the next report from the committee on constitutional affairs. i rise to ask that this report be referred back to committee so that some independent, outside, impartial examination of the report can be carried out. this report from start to finish is full of self-interest from every side of the house, including my own delegation, and i believe that we cannot be judges in our own cause. in the case of ireland, the number of seats has reduced from 15 to 13, to 12. it is now suggested that it be reduced to 11 at a time when our population has greatly increased. that will be a decrease of more than 25 %. it is totally unacceptable. why has a maximum of 751 seats been set, for example? could we not take a seat off everybody? for the larger member states that will be one-ninetieth and for us it would still be one twelfth. i ask that this report be referred back for impartial input and examination. i am sorry to be disagreeable, but i could not sit here and accept this without making my point.
mr president, i am asking if there are 40 members in the house who will support me in referring this matter back. i believe it should be referred back.
mr president, i would just like to say that amendment 72 is on page 19 of the voting list. we have not come to amendment 72 at this point on the list. it is there though.
mr president, i hope sir robert will indulge me for this oral amendment. i will not take too much time. i am proposing the amendment on the bloc of votes from 107 to 120 to move the new paragraph from article 29(4a) to article 29(3a). the text is: ‘the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 55 to ensure that the agricultural area subject to the scheme shall cover a minimum percentage of the total holding of the farmer.’
mr president, indeed we are all thinking of mr papastamkos. let us separate the issues, though, because mr schulz made some comments as to how we do our work and i want to defend the work of the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri). i would say this: we do need to look at how we do our work. the president of this parliament has just said that many of us are voting on things we do not know we are voting on, and let us be frank – and i will say it for my office – you cannot have staff working 24/7, and that is what is happening in this house. we are under too much pressure with the volume of the reports we deal with. let us take mr schulz’s view: perhaps some of us could sit down and look at better ways of working. the amount and volume of material we are dealing with cannot be dealt with effectively, and the agriculture committee worked wonders to distil down over 8 000 amendments into some sort of coherent document. this house represents democracy. we have to allow people to vote. the decision of the agri committee was to allow that. if we want to change that position, we need to discuss it. perhaps it takes a crisis such as we all feel we have gone through to change how we work. let us seize the opportunity to at least discuss it.
mr president, high youth unemployment in many post-arab spring countries is a social time bomb, according to president van rompuy speaking in january of this year. president van rompuy also stated that 50 million jobs would have to be created in the next two years for all the young people in the region about to enter what is now a severely depressed labour market. the european union is egypt’s main source for foreign investment and development cooperation. recently, the eu and its associated financial institutions offered a total in excess of eur 5 billion to egypt in grants, concessional loans and loans for the period 2012-2013. despite the assistance we are providing, there are constant reports of political and constitutional problems. parliamentary elections to the house of representatives are scheduled to take place in april, and we need to ensure that these take place in a democratic and transparent fashion. we need to invest in egypt’s success for selfish and selfless reasons. i commend the high representative and her staff for the work done to date. a stable region and a stable egypt is crucial to our goals in that part of the world. the eu is well respected in this region and has a very important role to play in building international stability and interdependence. interdependence is both the strength and the objective of the whole european project. this is a country that requires close contact and support so that democratic norms can take root.
mr president, facts are stubborn things, and for those who have cheer-led the intervention in mali, they may be uncomfortable things. because the reality is that the european forces are now engaged in training an army that human rights watch has documented as being guilty of torture, summary executions and enforced disappearances, in particular targeting the tuareg people and other ethnic minorities. why? well you have to look beyond the tired rhetoric of fighting terrorism. the french defence minister gave the game away when he used the term ‘total reconquest of mali’ when describing the french goals. i think they wish to secure control of this strategic region and its rich resources, particularly oil, gold and uranium. the deployment of irish troops to assist in training missions in mali again exposes the lie of irish neutrality. military intervention and military training will not solve the problems of the malian people. it will only lead to further hardship and further spreading of the conflict. the tunisian revolution, which overthrew a french-backed dictatorship showed the way forward. this was a mass struggle by working people and the poor fighting for their own interests, including the right to self-determination, and against the rule of dictators and imperialism.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i think what we need are concrete proposals and serious commitments from the commission and member states on environmental, social, labour and trade union rights all the way through the cotton chain: from cotton production and harvesting to textile and clothing manufacturing. the urgency has been highlighted, on the one hand, by the widespread use of forced child labour in the cotton fields of uzbekistan and, on the other hand, in the recent tragic factory fires in bangladesh. in many cases it is big retailers and brands, fully aware of the lack of health and safety standards and benefitting from slave wages and poor working conditions, which are making a fortune out of the misery and exploitation of – often very young – female workers. for these reasons i tabled an amendment calling for corporate social responsibility to be legally binding and enforceable, not just a cheap pr mechanism as unfortunately it often is. i also want to draw attention to the practice of sandblasting, which is used in the production of denim jeans and other textiles. it exposes workers to extreme health hazards, with silica particles entering the body and causing deadly diseases such as silicosis. that is why i tabled an amendment calling for the commission to come forward with a proposal to introduce an import ban on products that are produced using sandblasting. could i ask the commissioner please to respond to that issue? of course, that alone would not be enough. what is needed is a strong trade union movement in bangladesh, uzbekistan and elsewhere, and solidarity from the trade union movement in europe to effectively tackle these issues, force the abandonment of the practice of sandblasting and to fight for decent working and living conditions.
i scríbhinn. − mar chomhalta den toscaireacht acc-ae, tá sé feicthe agam féin an difríocht a dhéanann comhar agus cúnamh airgid ae do shaol daoine i dtíortha bochta agus tuigim cé chomh tábhachtach is atá an comhar sin ó thaobh na n-iarrachtaí deireadh a chur leis an mbochtanas i dtíortha acc. le 20 bliain anuas tá eur 14 billiún de chúnamh daonnúil leithdháilte in 140 tír ar dhaoine atá buailte le cogadh nó tubaiste nádúrtha. faoi láthair, tá cúnamh de eur 11.3 billiún á dháileadh ag ae, agus is é an taontas an tabharthóir cúnaimh iltaobhach is mó ar domhan. ní fhéadfaidh sé sin athrú. measann 85% de mhuintir na heorpa gur chóir leanúint de chúnamh a thabhairt do na tíortha atá i mbéal forbartha. tuigim buarthaí an rapóirtéara i dtaca leis na ciorruithe ar an gciste eorpach forbraíochta agus tacaím leis an moladh maidir le bainistíocht níos fearr a dhéanamh ar chúrsaí chun freastal ar na ceantair is mó ina mbíonn cúnamh ag teastáil. meastar go mbeidh méadú 70% ar an soláthar bia ag teastáil faoi 2050 le freastal ar riachtanais daonra dhomhanda de 9 billiún duine. ní mór, mar sin, díriú ar chúrsaí talmhaíochta inmharthana a fhorbairt i dtíortha atá i mbéal forbartha.
i scríbhinn. − is cinnte nach comhréiteach foirfe é comhaontú an chreata airgeadais ilbhliantúil a baineadh amach i mí feabhra. is mórchúis díomá é go bhfuil ciorrú déanta ar bhuiséad an chomhbheartais talmhaíochta (cbt), agus ar chúrsaí forbartha tuaithe go háirithe. ina ainneoin sin, ní mór, ar mhaithe le cúrsaí cinnteachta agus seasmhachta in ae, go nglacfaí bunseasamh do na cainteanna ar an mbuiséad agus ar chláir fhíorthábhachtacha mar cbt, cbi, horizon 2020, cúrsaí comhtháthaithe agus síochána agus an gheallúint don ógra. tugaimid lántacaíocht don pharlaimint chun comhaontú a bhaint amach don tréimhse bhuiséadach 2014-2020. tacaímid leis an moladh na billí móra ó 2012 nach bhfuil íoctha fós a réiteach roimh dheireadh na gcainteanna. níor chóir dúinn tréimhse airgeadais nua a thosú agus easnamh fós ann atá ag cur isteach ar na cainteanna agus ar chinntí i dtaca le leithdháileadh airgid. is ionann na ciorruithe atá á moladh agus na ciorruithe atá déanta sna ballstáit agus ní mór don pharlaimint agus don chomhairle ceannaireacht a léiriú agus buiséad a aontú a rachaidh chun leasa mhuintir ae. aontaímid leis an moladh athbhreithniú a dhéanamh leath bealaigh tríd an tréimhse bhuiséadach chun athruithe sna córais airgeadais phoiblí nó sna comhriachtanais infheistíochta a chur san áireamh.
i scríbhinn. − vótálamar i gcoinne thuarascáil gualtieri/trzaskowski maidir le leithdháileadh shuíocháin na bhfeisirí i ndiaidh chéad thoghchán eile pharlaimint na heorpa. is tuarascáil í atá claonta i gcoinne ballstáit bheaga cosúil le héirinn. ní aontaímid leis na ‘critéir oibiachtúla’ a úsáideadh agus is léir do na ballstáit sin a mbeidh suíochán á bhaint uathu i ndiaidh 2014 nach athdháileadh cóir, loighciúil ná daonlathach, mar ba chóir a bheith faoi chonradh liospóin, atá i gceist leis na critéir nó leis an gcinneadh seo. níor chóir go mbeadh suíochán á chailleadh go huathoibríoch mar thoradh ar aontachas na cróite leis an ae ag an 12 bhallstát beag agus meánmhéide cosúil le héirinn. ní mór go mbainfí amach réiteach praiticiúil a chosnódh leas mhuintir na héireann, in ionad an beartas ‘is lú lochtach’ seo (mar atá á ghlaoch air) a chur i bhfeidhm. is í an bhliain seo bliain eorpach na saoránach agus ní foláir go mbainfidh an chomhairle agus rialtas na héireann úsáid as an gceart crosta atá acu chun a chinntiú nach ndéantar guth mhuintir na héireann san ae a mhaolú.
in writing. − we have serious reservations about the impact of several of the recommendations in this report, particularly in relation to the fairness and equality in the distribution of direct payments to active farmers. the implementation of flattening and greening is going to require considerable resources and will add a new administrative burden to farmers and member states. we fully support the recommendation that the cap be targeted at active, productive farmers but the models proposed will require significant upheaval. it is essential that member states are afforded the necessary flexibility to work with the specificities of their individual agricultural sectors. we welcome the recommendations on the young farmer scheme and the flexibility for member states to introduce targeted coupling to support vulnerable sectors which are under pressure. we have concerns that the definition of ‘active farmers’ and details surrounding eligibility for payments are creating significant confusion among farmers, leading to uncertainty and speculation. we supported the measures to be introduced under greening but stress again that flexibility is needed to implement them in a workable manner in member states, as a one-size-fits-all policy will not work due to the diverse nature of european agriculture.
in writing. − we voted to reject this report as it will be detrimental to the agricultural sector, the internal market and competition in europe. we particularly reject the attempts to introduce ‘quotas by the back door’ in terms of new supply management tools for milk production in the event of market imbalance. these measures, if introduced, will set the sector back years in terms of competition, innovation and in meeting targets such as those set in harvest 2020 in ireland and will undermine the considerable investment already put in place due to the ending of quotas in 2015. within the report we voted to support the extension of the sugar regime to 2017/2018 coupled with the reallocation of quota to member states which had previously relinquished it as this has the potential to create employment and address market opportunities in this sector.
in writing. − i support an extended list of products that can be covered by coupled support. the list of products in annex i to the tfeu includes tobacco, which i do not support.
in writing. − we voted to support this report, which reflects the needs of rural communities and undertakes to ensure their continued sustainability and vitality. however, it is regrettable that the rural development programme is to be subjected to significant cuts under the multiannual financial framework – thus undermining its effectiveness. with regard to the mandate for negotiation, areas of natural constraints (less favoured areas) are of key concern to many of the most rural and remote areas in ireland, and we welcome the committee’s recommendation that this matter should be given time and attention outside the cap debate. this crucial issue should not be overshadowed in the overall reform as it is key to the viability and sustainability of rural ireland. in particular, we welcome the inclusion of references to farm safety which should be a key feature of the rural development programme.
in writing. − we voted to support this balanced and pragmatic report on financing, management and monitoring of the cap. in particular we support the commitment to cutting red tape and the administrative burdens placed on farmers and the realistic and workable approach taken by the rapporteur and the committee in terms of monitoring and checking cross-compliance. it is essential that member states adopt a proportionate and risk-based approach to the monitoring of cross-compliance and we welcome the recommendation to adjust the number of on the spot-checks in member states where the error rate is at an acceptable level. we welcome the introduction of an early warning system which will work within the realities of farming and will reduce the unnecessary burden on farmers. given the extensive work undertaken on sheep eid we welcome the measures proposed to have no penalties for non-compliance due to technical failure of tagging or the system.
in writing. − i voted to re-introduce smr 5 to cross-compliance because i believe that any farmer who uses illegal hormones should face sanctions, including the loss of the single farm payment.
in writing. − i am placing this explanation of vote on the record in writing, as i had to exceptionally return to ireland due to a family bereavement. i welcome the vote in favour of the report. i feel that binding targets for 2030 on greenhouse gas emissions should not be ruled out as a policy option, so i abstained on voting on that issue. i believe that, overall, the report is a balanced one and has a comprehensive menu that does not rule out technological innovation in the area of unconventional energy supplies and in carbon capture and storage. based on that, i would have voted in favour of the report as a whole if i had been present in the chamber.
in writing. − i am placing this explanation of vote on the record in writing as i exceptionally had to return to ireland due to a family bereavement. i welcome the vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on nuclear stress tests. it is of utmost importance that these tests were carried out to ensure public safety and public trust in nuclear power plants in the aftermath of the fukushima disaster. these tests have revealed a series of flaws in the nuclear power stock across europe, so they are effective in their implementation. i believe that some of the amendments tabled, however, were superfluous and sought to undermine trust in the tests, so i would have voted against them. overall, i would have been pleased to vote in favour of this important resolution in order to strengthen safeguards in the field of nuclear energy in europe.
in writing. − the protection of human health is an important part of eu policy (article 35 of the treaty). i and my fine gael colleagues supported this non-legislative report because it calls for much greater research to improve the state of scientific knowledge on the impact of endocrine disrupters on human health. we support the development of appropriate tests for identifying endocrine disruptors and criteria on how the interpretation of these tests, in conjunction with other relevant research, might be translated into legislative measures. the eu chemical regulatory framework – notably reach – functions by identifying substances that are dangerous and by taking measures to protect people from harm. this system works well. only when the science and thorough impact assessments are in place should additional or new regulation be considered where the science calls for it.
mr president, this report is aimed at smoothing the process of integrating migrants into the labour market and into society. the report acknowledges that diverse, open tolerant societies are more likely to attract skilled workers who possess the human and creative capital required to power knowledge economies, particularly in large urban areas. it also acknowledges the hugely important role ethnic businesses can play in job creation in helping to regenerate declining urban areas and building bridges to global markets, which is of crucial importance in an era of globalisation and global diasporas. i was disappointed that parliament voted to respect fundamental rights of undocumented migrants and yet did not support a route to employment for the undocumented, or support voting rights for migrants at local level. i believe this is a retrograde step. migrants have voting rights in local elections in ireland and are encouraged to make a positive contribution to their communities. integration is a continuous two-way process. many excellent integration programmes are being implemented in different member states, often through projects carried out by local authorities who play a key role in delivering integration objectives. i welcome the many constructive recommendations set out in this report and urge the commission and member states to respond to them in a very positive way.
in writing. − the eu has known since 1977 that there is no safe level of exposure to asbestos and asbestos has been banned in the eu since 2005. according to the who, the number of cases of asbestos-related diseases in the eu is 20 000-30 000 per year and has not yet reached its peak. i would urge the commission and the member states to act on the constructive recommendations set out in the hughes report on establishing public asbestos registers; on ensuring that workers, especially younger workers and construction workers, likely to come into contact with asbestos are properly qualified and trained; on developing programmes for eliminating asbestos; on updating norms for the identification, notification, recognition and compensation of asbestos-related illnesses; on supporting groups for asbestos victims; and on moving for a global ban on asbestos. all member states should follow poland and adopt action plans aimed at making their countries asbestos-free. in particular we need to combine strategies on renovating buildings to make them more efficient with a parallel gradual removal of all asbestos. the forthcoming european strategy for health and safety (2014-20) should also include a coordinated strategy on asbestos, aimed at moving to asbestos-free workplaces.
in writing. i supported the own-initiative report by our colleague stephen hughes on the occupational health risks of asbestos and the prospects for the complete elimination of asbestos as it calls for an impact study and cost-benefit analysis to be carried out first on the possibility of establishing action plans for the safe elimination of asbestos in public buildings and service buildings requiring public access by 2028. in addition, as the report points out, i call on the commission, in cooperation with the member states, to propose a specific directive on the minimum requirements for the vocational training of construction and maintenance workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the hughes report because i think it is absolutely shocking that, to this day, thousands of tonnes of asbestos-containing materials are still in use across europe. the who estimates that between 20 000 and 30 000 people die every year in the eu of asbestos-related diseases, and according to the ilo over 100 000 people worldwide die of asbestos related diseases every year. the role of many companies and governments in concealing or denying heath risks related to working with asbestos is scandalous. around 75 % of schools in northern ireland contain asbestos. the policy of the government is to ‘manage’ rather than to remove the asbestos, claiming it ‘poses no significant risk’ if not disturbed. this is simply unacceptable and i fully support the campaign of teachers and unions like nipsa for the removal of all asbestos from schools. in my opinion, what is needed to safeguard the health of workers and the general population is a worldwide ban on the use of asbestos and the immediate safe removal of all remaining asbestos.
in writing. − mutual societies are voluntary groups of natural or legal persons whose primary purpose is to meet the needs of their members, rather than achieve a return on investment. there are two broad types of mutual societies in europe – ‘mutual benefit’ (or ‘health providence’) societies which provide welfare coverage which supplements, complements or is integrated into statutory social protection systems, and ‘mutual insurance’ societies, which cover all types of property and life risks. mutual societies play a major role in europe. they provide healthcare, social services and affordable insurance services to more than 160 million people. they represent 25 % of the insurance market, 70 % of the total number of undertakings in this sector, and employ over 350 000 people. in ireland, mutual insurance organisations provide just a 1 % market share, compared to over 25 % in germany and france. a statute for a european mutual society would not interfere with existing national laws on mutual societies but would provide the legal framework enabling national mutual societies to cooperate with one other and to operate across the entire union. i would urge the commission to respond positively to parliament’s request for european legislation for a european mutual society statute.
in writing. − i completely condemn the recent actions of the north korean regime, its appalling human rights record and its role in using the threat of nuclear weapons to increase tensions in the region. the regime is using the nuclear issue and is increasing tensions with south korea and imperialism in order to distract from the devastating realities of life in north korea. however, i abstained on this resolution as it unfortunately failed to mention the role the south korean government is playing in increasing tensions on the korean peninsula – also in its own self-interest. life in north korea is a nightmare for working class people, small farmers and the poor. i stand for a struggle to overthrow the brutal, corrupt stalinist dictatorship in north korea; for genuine workers’ democracy with the democratic control of government, and democratic planning of the economy. this would be of huge importance for a struggle to end the poverty, repression, dictatorship and conflict that dominates the region. it would also provide the basis for the elimination of nuclear weapons and the threat they pose to humanity.
in writing. − i voted against the report on eu – china relations. i agree with the points relating to the human rights situation in china. on many occasions, i have spoken out in favour of workers’ and trade union rights, the rights of ethnic and religious minorities, the right to self determination and other basic human and democratic rights. i fully support workers in china who, despite severe repression, fight for their right to set up independent trade unions. i salute the courage of chinese bloggers defending the right to a free media and the many ordinary chinese people who protest against the massive environmental damage done to their rivers, villages and cities. however, i cannot agree with the report when it criticises china’s opposition to a military intervention in syria. i am a strong opponent of the assad regime and defend the right of the syrian people to defend themselves against the brutal onslaught of the syrian army. my reasons for opposing an intervention are different to the chinese regime. nevertheless, as libya has shown, a military intervention backed by imperialist powers is not in the interest of the people in syria and will not end their plight.
author. − mr president, the death of arafat jaradat in israeli detention, by torture, has shone a light again on the brutally repressive measures of the israeli state. since 1967, more than 200 palestinians have died in israeli prisons as a result of torture, medical negligence or homicide. as has been mentioned already, virtually every family in palestine has had a family member imprisoned. since 1967, almost 800 000 palestinians have been imprisoned and almost 5 000 are currently in prison, including more than 200 minors. when i was in gaza, i was given demonstrations of the kind of torture that is carried out regularly against palestinian prisoners: they are forced into stress positions for hours or days at a time, kept in isolation and subjected to brutal beatings by prison guards. i met with children unable to visit their mothers, and women unable to visit their husbands, because the prisoners are held in israeli territory, in direct contravention of the geneva convention, while their family members are stuck in gaza in what is in many cases effectively an outdoor prison. there are eight palestinian prisoners currently on hunger strike, including samer issawi and ayman sharawna, who are near death. they, together with all of the political prisoners, should be released immediately and the military court system in the occupied territory should be scrapped. when shimon peres addressed this parliament on tuesday, he wheeled out all the old propaganda about israel being a western democracy. these lies are contradicted by the death of arafat jaradat. they are contradicted by the introduction of segregated bussing of palestinians from the west bank. they are contradicted by the expansion of settlements around east jerusalem. an mep has expressed a fear that there may be a third intifada, but what other choice do the palestinian people have? there will be no real peace and no real justice as long as the rule of the capitalist israeli establishment continues. there needs to be is a mass struggle by the palestinian people from below – protests, strikes, democratic committees of struggle – together with israeli workers, to challenge the rule of imperialism and capitalism in the middle east and open the road to a real and lasting peace based on a socialist confederation of independent viable states.
mr president, i welcome the resolution highlighting the plight of almost 4 900 palestinian prisoners in israeli prisons. i particularly support the call for an independent inquiry into the death of arafat jaradat, who died in israeli custody last month. there are many questions surrounding his death. the israelis say that the marks on his body and broken ribs were not from torture, but from efforts to revive him. i fully support the call for an independent inquiry. the truth must be established in an independent and verifiable way. the resolution also addresses other important issues in relation to the human rights of palestinian prisoners. firstly, there are four prisoners who are on extended hunger strike. in the case of one, samer issawi, it was reported that he had stopped taking water and faces death. secondly, the widespread use of administrative detention is still commonplace. i believe it is an abuse of their human rights and international law. this allows detention without charge or trial. thirdly, the majority of palestinian prisoners are being held in prisons situated inside israeli territory, which makes family visits impossible and is a violation of the geneva convention. i fully support the call for a cross-party european parliament fact-finding mission to israel to assess the conditions of detention of palestinian prisoners, in particular women and children, and the use of administrative detention. i believe that this could help resolve many of the issues.
author. − on behalf of the committee on fisheries, i want to state that the present situation as regards the unjustified and irresponsible autonomous mackerel quotas of 282 000 tonnes set by both iceland and the faroe islands for 2013 is totally unacceptable. this reckless behaviour is putting at risk in the medium to long-term a very healthy mackerel stock and the livelihoods of the pelagic sector. it is now twelve months since the marine stewardship council suspended the accreditation of mackerel in this region, and if the mackerel stock collapses due to the actions of both iceland and the faroe islands, this would have a devastating effect on the entire eu pelagic sector. we should have learned from the overfished stock of blue whiting by the same parties, and this has clearly shown what can happen when no action is taken. iceland’s share of mackerel in the north-east atlantic was 1% in 2006 and now stands at almost 23% this year. that of the faroe islands has increased from 4.6% to 29.3% in the last four years. in quantity terms, iceland has increased its share thirty-fold and the faroe islands six-fold over the same period. these are staggering figures, with iceland and the faroe islands now taking 52% of that provided scientifically. this shows very clearly that both countries are participating in unsustainable fishing practices, contrary to regulation no 1026 of 2012. to make matters worse, the faroe islands have this year stepped outside the five coastal state management arrangements on atlanto-scandian, setting a quota of 105 000 tonnes – three times what was agreed within the management plan. i am now calling on the commissioner to act now on the very strong mandate given to her and not to ignore any further the mandate that had been given to her by the majority, or practically all, of this parliament. and as rapporteur, commissioner, i am calling on you to act immediately. the time for talking is over. we have got to see action, and action must be taken to save this industry. in light of what i have said and the specific requirements laid down in the framework regulation, i find it very difficult to understand why the commission and the commissioner continue to ignore the views of the vast majority of this house. surely, commissioner, you must see that this overfishing is going to result in serious devastation for the industry? there have been at least twelve rounds of negotiations, with neither party coming to the table with any realistic proposals. they will now continue to do so unless immediate action is taken. i cannot totally blame the faroe islands and iceland, but i lay the blame at the door of the commission. i also cannot accept that the eu needs to prove that it has sustainably fished mackerel stocks before the commission can implement such sanctions. this was stated by you, commissioner, at the meeting of the commission on fisheries on 19 october last. the same cannot be said for iceland and the faroe islands, as they have both increased their share by massive quantities. the commission has also introduced very tough measures internally, within the union, and i support that. i am thinking in particular of the measures against spain, which prove that the eu is fishing in a sustainable manner. this is a point which the chair of the committee on fisheries, gabriel mato adrover, asked me to make in his absence. it is worth noting that if both iceland and the faroe islands were acting responsibly and fishing in a sustainable manner, instead of having a 15% reduction on the scientific advice, we would have a 25% reduction in the tac. i would conclude by saying that the commissioner has been at the forefront of advocating sustainable stocks and fishing at maximum sustainable levels, and we all support that. but that has not been reflected in the decisions that are not being taken by the commission. i fail to see why you have not acted to date to implement effective and appropriate trade measures to deter such blatant, unsustainable fishing practices. i believe action is needed now, not words. you have been given a strong mandate, commissioner, but you are ignoring the mandate of this house. i am losing confidence. i am concerned about the future and about the reform of the common fisheries policy, and i would sincerely hope that you will have some good news for us tonight and will tell us that you are now going to reflect the views of this parliament by taking the necessary action.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá ar ábhar atá idir lámha agam anseo anocht, is é sin fuinneamh agus go háirithe gás nádúrtha leachtaithe (lng). security of supplies is important in relation to energy, and for that you need diversity of supply. europe has moved well in that area in the last number of years, particularly in establishing renewables, which i fully support. but i think we also have to look particularly at gas being probably the cleanest of the fossil fuels. where we have supplies in europe, we should exploit them in an environmentally-friendly way, and where we have not, i particularly welcome the establishment of lng terminals. one of those is planned in my own constituency, shannon lng. i think, from the hearing last week in parliament, that there is a need for a one-stop-shop when it comes to planning and foreshore licences, not just in ireland but across europe. that is something we should look at to ensure that security of supply is there and that we have the diversity of supply which lng guarantees.
mr president, without doubt trade is essential for the economic well-being of all mankind. certainly we hear more and more about trade in parliament every week, especially with regard to developing free trade agreements in the absence of progress in the wto. i think that most of these trade agreements are in fact getting better as time goes by and as the commission grapples with past difficulties, makes improvements and is obviously more conscious of how it will impact, particularly in the other states we are dealing with and especially, as speakers have mentioned in relation to the political situations there, obviously you cannot support corruption, multinationals, etc. i think that, at the end of the day, we are gradually making progress. in particular i think that, where there are difficulties – especially in agriculture – review clauses would be an essential part in any of those situations.
mr president, i found the comments made by the rapporteur very interesting, and i agree with her completely. in summary, i think that what we need to do is move from aid to trade. the world is changing. developing countries are now becoming more aware of their potential. i think we have to move from giving them direct development aid, as we do nowadays, to doing something that will benefit them in the future. one thing we need to look at is the whole question of ngos. there is a plethora of ngos, all doing great work – but how effective are they and how prepared are they for the future? i think the commission should do an impact assessment on the ngos that we are funding, with a view to perhaps reducing them by half and making them more effective and more responsive to the needs of the future. by doing this, we could help these countries not just to be developing countries but to be developed countries in a few years.
mr president, the agreement between council and parliament to limit bankers’ bonuses to a fixed ratio in remuneration is a very welcome breakthrough, together with the set of provisions on the variable element of salaries that aims to deter short-termist approaches and risky behaviour. in terms of much-needed legislative reform on capital requirements, which will implement the basel iii agreements in the eu, this house has faced the usual barrage of resistance and lobbying from the financial sector. the deal reached between the member states and parliament represents a badly-needed improvement to avert disastrous outcomes and risky behaviour in the financial sector, but we must remain alert to systemic risk and moral hazard. i look forward to commissioner barnier’s proposals on shadow banking and further, robust financial-sector reform. finally, i wish to stress the importance of flexibility provisions on retail credit to smes. these are a crucial means to facilitate financing and investments in the real economy, preventing higher costs for these loans.
mr president, if we want to know where we are going, we need to remember where we came from. one of the problems, i find, is that we do not tell people about the divided history of europe and what it led to. i know, for example, a man in his early thirties from lithuania who knows absolutely nothing about the berlin wall. we have allowed the agenda to be taken over by the word ‘austerity’ instead of using the word ‘consolidation’ and telling people that we need stability. above all, we have refused – and failed – to give hope. i do not mean false hope, but we keep telling people what we are doing and we do not tell people why we are doing it. for a long time, people did not believe that the european central bank had the firepower to defend the currency. it has made it clear that it has. we have got to make it clear, for example, that the european investment bank will be used, if necessary, as our vehicle to give hope, to give stimulus. we do not just need stability, we need stimulus, and it is time to turn to stimulus. the stability situation seems to me to be well in control. in relation to the situation we find ourselves in, we had a situation where, with the fall of the berlin wall, we were to have a germanic europe or european germany, and a decision had to be made quickly about the currency. we now have had to put in the foundations we were not able to put in then. banking supervision and the recapitalisation of banks should be the last steps in that. let us now turn to stimulus. we need stimulus. the european investment bank could be the vehicle for that.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to find legally well-founded solutions, safeguarding parliament’s rights created under the tfeu and the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is progressive in terms of promoting relations in the fisheries area between the eu and the republic of mauritius. this will help maintain continuity in the fisheries zones.
in writing. − i welcome the approval of eur 5.03 million in egf aid for workers made redundant at the antonio merloni spa company in italy in late 2011. in its assessment, the commission correctly noted that the impact of the economic and financial crisis on enterprises, such as merloni, which manufacture domestic appliances constitutes a legitimate trigger of the fund. merloni experienced a significant downturn in business when the first wave of the global crisis broke. this was significantly – and predictably – exacerbated by the inability to access vital credit as a lifeline to survival, due to the global downturn. 1 517 workers lost their jobs, and italy is seeking egf aid for all of these former merloni employees. the menu of personalised services to be co-funded by the egf includes a welcome, integrated mix of retraining, upskilling and tailored assistance. yet again, the egf has demonstrated its obvious value at a time when european workers face a spectrum of uncertainty not seen for generations. i urge those european leaders who continue to form a minority blocking continuation of the fund to read the details of the merloni case, and reconsider.
in writing. − i am pleased that meps have approved egf funding for agile s.r.l., the italian it services provider. there were 1 257 redundancies at the company, of whom 856 workers have been targeted for egf co-funding. my own country ireland has a significant it services sector, therefore my fellow irish meps and i are aware of how susceptible the industry can be to the fluxes of globalised trade. i am confident that the italian authorities have provided a sensible balance of options in their egf proposal for agile, including postgraduate education, entrepreneurship promotion and contributions to business start-up, hiring benefits, mentoring after reintegration into work and job-search allowances. as founding co-chair of parliament’s interest group on carers, i was particularly heartened to see a measure included contributing towards special expenses for carers of dependent persons. such thoughtful and innovative uses of the egf remind us of the fund’s intrinsic value as a bulwark against the often brutal realities of our globalised economies, and i hope and expect that the italian workers who lost their jobs at agile will use their allocations to find new sources of employment in the coming years.
in writing. − while i must state at the outset that i am a believer in anti-smoking policies, including ireland’s highly progressive policy of banning smoking in all workplaces – the first of its kind globally – i am also cognisant of the fact that strengthening national and eu legislation against smoking will naturally have a severe impact on workers in the eu tobacco sector. as a result, i agree with parliament’ decision to back austria’ egf application for the 2011 redundancies in austria tabak gmbh. interestingly, the commission notes that ‘austria justifies the request for egf support by the particular situation of the cross-border area where the redundancies happened...many workers from slovakia (and also from hungary) take up work on the austrian side of the cross-border area as the salary levels are higher than at home’. providing egf funding for these workers is therefore a tailor-made european solution to a european open market problem. it is appropriate and timely to use this example as further proof – not that it is needed at this point, such is the compelling body of evidence – that the egf has a genuine purpose to serve in this era of mass unemployment and austerity.
in writing. − i regret that amendment 2 tabled by the s&d group (and similar amendments tabled by two other groups) did not win sufficient support in plenary. this sought to ensure that eight acp countries concerned here that have not yet agreed economic partnership agreements (epas) with the commission would continue to have duty-free and quota-free access to eu markets until 1 january 2016, instead of 1 january 2014 as proposed by the commission. if we want fair and development-focused epas, we need to give these countries enough breathing space in the negotiations. that said, i do think that the compromise to push the expiry deadline back to 1 october 2014, as accepted by an overwhelming majority of meps representing all the groups, is preferable to the initial deadline. there is a moral and indeed an eu treaty obligation on the commission to show sufficient flexibility in order to agree fair and development-friendly epas that promote regional integration with the remaining 17 acp countries that have not agreed epas. these countries must continue to have duty-free quota-free market access until this is achieved.
mr president, it is as clear as day for all those not blinded by neo-liberal ideology that the emissions trading scheme is an absolute failure in terms of tackling greenhouse gas emissions. even the most conservative estimates suggest that between one third and two thirds of all carbon credits bought under the scheme do not represent real carbon reductions. it is, however, a success in creating a profitable market for big business. the massive amount of free emission rights can be sold off for a profit and perceived rising costs are then directly added to the bills of consumers. the energy sector has, in this way, made an extra profit in the last phase of between eur 23 and eur 71 billion. corruption is also rife in this market, with faulty projects generating credits through the clean development mechanism, which can then be sold off for profit. as a result, the un was even forced to disqualify its main cdm verification agency in 2009. the free market approach to tackling climate change has failed. i fully agree with the many environmental activists calling for the ets scheme to be scrapped immediately. we need planning for the environment, not production for profit of the rich. polluting industries should be nationalised under democratic public control and run as part of a sustainable and democratically-planned economy.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague othmar karas for his excellent work. in terms of the irish presidency, reaching political agreement on this file was a significant achievement and will represent an important milestone in terms of our presidency priorities. thanks to this report, banks will no longer be able to give preference to investment banking but must now at least place equal emphasis on retail banking and granting credit to smes. this new set of rules will make it necessary for all european banks to finance the real economy. as i said previously, it will allow smes increased access to credit and will make this a banking priority, as it should be. liquidity requirements will be introduced in 2015, whereby banking institutions will be required to hold liquid assets with a total value that would cover the net liquid outflows that might be experienced under stressed conditions over a period of 30 days, so that our banks will not be allowed to over-expose themselves again in the future. there will also be administrative sanctions for banks which fail to comply, which is also very welcome.
in writing. − i believe a good compromise has been reached by parliament and the council under the irish presidency on the fourth capital adequacy directive. this directive, together with the new capital adequacy regulation (a7-0171/2013), forms the capital adequacy package, one of the most important pieces of legislation ever to come before parliament. in addition to the comments i have made on the new regulation, i would also emphasise the fact that the package will, in my view, help ensure that banks serve the needs of the real economy, particularly smes, which are vital for promoting growth and jobs. i also welcome the new provisions requiring greater transparency from banks and their subsidiaries, which are absolutely necessary if we are to seriously tackle tax evasion and fraud. we now need to build upon the capital adequacy package and agree a comprehensive banking union which includes a european banking resolution system in case of bank failure and a european deposit guarantee system. we must also move towards a clearer separation between retail banking and investment banking to protect savers’ deposits from excessive risk-taking.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na treorach toisc go bhfuil an treoir um cheanglais chaipitil i gcroílár bheartas baincéireachta an aontais eorpaigh. ba cheann de chúiseanna na géarchéime eacnamaíche í tóraíocht ollbhónais na mbaincéirí. faoi leasuithe nua na treorach, cuirfear uasteorainn ar bhónais bhaincéirí ar mhaithe le dul i ngleic le nósanna i dtaca le rioscaí iomadúla a ghlacadh agus chun a chinntiú nach dtarlaíonn géarchéim airgeadúil eile amach anseo. de réir na leasuithe, ní bheidh bónas ar bith a bheadh níos mó ná tuarastal bliantúil an bhaincéara á bhronnadh agus beidh na bainc á spreagadh chun úsáid a bhaint as bónais fhadtréimhseacha chun a chinntiú nach mbíonn rioscaí iomadúla á nglacadh ag baincéirí toisc go mbíonn siad dírithe ar an mbrabús gearrthréimhseach. tá sé mar aidhm ag an treoir seasmhacht na hearnála airgeadúla a fheabhsú, rud atá ríthábhachtach d’éirinn agus don aontas eorpach.
in writing. − although these reports dealing with the prudential supervision of financial firms (crr and crd iv) contain some welcome reforms to liquidity requirements, capital requirements, leverage ratios and corporate governance, i abstained as these provisions are a mere pale reflection of what is needed. these provisions will do nothing to rein in the domination of the financial markets and will not even clip the wings of casino capitalism. i welcome the restrictions introduced on the bonuses of senior bankers. however the reports do nothing to prevent enormous salaries for senior bankers and contain enough flexibility to allow the obnoxious, short-sighted and reckless bonus culture to continue unabated. in order to make a real difference to the financial sector, the banks must be nationalised under democratic public control and ownership. the financial system could then, as part of a planned economy, be put at the service of the needs of working people and the redevelopment of the economy in the interests of the majority.
i would again like to congratulate mr karas. i have to say that i welcome the greater transparency in relation to banking practices, and here i am at odds with our colleague dr tannock, because capping bankers’ bonuses to one year’s salary in my opinion does not go nearly far enough. because in my country, the bonuses paid to bankers are immoral in the extreme, and this is at a time when austerity is very much a reality for our people and when the irish taxpayer has had to bail out our broken bank system. i think it is also regrettable that this report makes no mention of stopping the awarding of bonuses where a bank or financial institution is operating at a loss or is in financial difficulty. there was public uproar when the former managing director of allied irish bank in my country received a bonus while the bank was actually operating at a loss. steps need to be taken to ensure that this is never repeated. the creation of a performance banking table will allow us to see exactly how well banks in my country are performing in comparison to banks in other member states, so i welcome the report.
in writing. − a good compromise has been agreed on the new capital requirements regulation which, together with the fourth capital requirements directive (at-0170/2012), forms the capital requirements package, one of the most important pieces of legislation ever to come before meps. the package establishes for the first time a single set of prudential rules for all 8 000 eu banks, which will help ensure that banks are stronger and more responsible in times of crisis. i welcome in particular the introduction of eu-wide limits on bankers’ bonuses. it is simply not acceptable that banks whose reckless lending caused the crisis, putting millions out of work, and which have since received billions in taxpayers’ bailouts are continuing to pay out hundreds of millions in bonuses to an elite group of bankers. this package is also of particular importance for ireland’s recovery. without new eu rules on prudential supervision, we would not be able to establish a single supervisory mechanism for the european banking system, which in turn is required to give effect to last year’s decision to break the link between banking and sovereign debt. we are in effect slowly but surely unravelling the disastrous blanket bank guarantee decision of the last irish government.
in writing. − although these reports dealing with the prudential supervision of financial firms (crr and crd iv) contain some welcome reforms to liquidity requirements, capital requirements, leverage ratios and corporate governance, i abstained as these provisions are a mere pale reflection of what is needed. these provisions will do nothing to rein in the domination of the financial markets and will not even clip the wings of casino capitalism. i welcome the restrictions introduced on the bonuses of senior bankers. however the reports do nothing to prevent enormous salaries for senior bankers and contain enough flexibility to allow the obnoxious, short sighted and reckless bonus culture to continue unabated. in order to make a real difference to the financial sector, the banks must be nationalised under democratic public control and ownership. the financial system could then, as part of a planned economy, be put at the service of the needs of working people and the redevelopment of the economy in the interests of the majority.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo. ba mhaith liom a chur in iúl cé chomh tábhachtach agus atá an tuarascáil seo do sheirbhísí ar an talamh san earnáil eitlíochta san eoraip. tá an tuarascáil seo tábhachtach ionas go mbeidh iomaíochas ann ar fud na heorpa agus mar sin go mbeidh fiúntas níos fearr ar fáil do na haerlínte agus dá réir sin do na paisinéirí. nílimid ag caint anseo faoi léirscaoileadh na hearnála seirbhísí ar an talamh amháin, táimid ag caint freisin faoi íoschaighdeáin atá curtha ar fáil do mhuintir na heorpa ó thaobh an check-in de agus ó thaobh cúram a gcuid bagáiste de. nílimid ag caint ar chor ar bith faoi léirscaoileadh iomlán, mar nílimid ach ag iarraidh go mbeadh trí sholáthraí seirbhísí ar an talamh ann in áit dhá sholáthraí seirbhísí. táimid ag caint freisin faoi íoschaighdeáin ó thaobh oiliúint na n-oibrithe san earnáil seo de, chomh maith le cosaintí do na hoibrithe ó thaobh a gcuid coinníollacha oibre de. is lá maith é don tionscal aerlínte.
in writing. − groundhandling services such as baggage handling, and passenger and fuelling services are vital to the smooth operation of large airports like dublin airport, which handled 19 million passengers last year. however, the excessive and one-sided liberalisation of this sector from the late 1990s by the last irish government and the governments of most other member states, going beyond what was required by eu legislation and paying little attention to the social consequences, worsened terms and conditions for groundhandling workers. nor did it improve groundhandling services to a sufficient degree. i believe parliament’s amendments adopted here today would mean both better protection for groundhandling workers and better groundhandling services at eu airports like dublin airport. in particular, i welcome the amendments on ensuring compliance with certain collective agreements, including in the case of transferred workers and by subcontractors, and introducing higher quality standards expected from groundhandling service providers, covering maximum waiting times for baggage check-in and pick-up, amongst others. the current irish presidency of the transport council would, i believe, be able to broker a good agreement on a new groundhandling regulation if it takes up these constructive ep proposals. i would urge it to grasp this opportunity.
in writing. − the 2003 directive on equal treatment between men and women in access to goods and services is about much more than the insurance sector. that is why i am disappointed that the commission is using the 2011 ‘test-achats’ ruling on insurance tariffs, important and welcome though it undoubtedly is, to delay publication of the report originally due in 2010 on the implementation of this 10-year old directive. the commission should produce this report without further delay. it must also be wary of sections of the insurance sector capitalising on this ruling to over-inflate premiums. it should produce proposals to revise this directive in order to give greater legal certainty to its 2011 guidelines on unisex pricing. eu law, not guidelines, is needed to ensure that insurance premiums are linked to behaviour and lifestyle choices, not gender. gender equality is a fundamental and long-standing eu principle. but it is one that is still contested. we continue to need effective eu legislation and action to promote gender equality. that is why i welcome in particular the calls in this resolution for greater attention to discrimination linked to pregnancy and maternity.
in writing. − i voted in favour as it prohibits both direct and indirect discrimination based on sex in the access to and supply of goods and services in both the public and private sectors. it is important that europe encourages equal treatment of men and women on all grounds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because poverty reduction is a centrepiece of the eu’s development policy and should also guide the eu’s trade policy towards developing countries.
in writing. − i welcome the many sections of this report that challenge the hegemonic neo-liberal notion that unfettered trade liberalisation automatically results in reduced poverty and economic development. however, i abstained on this report as many of the positive contents were voted down by the majority of meps, such as the highlighting of the harmful nature of the reciprocity principle in public procurement, the call on the commission to dispense with the requirement that acp countries abandon export restrictions and a call for binding csr clauses in bilateral trade agreements. the report supports the gsp reform, is not critical enough of epas and public private partnerships are welcomed. the eu’s trade policy defends eu-based multinationals using their dominant position to maximise profit at the cost of workers’ rights, the environment and the development of poorer countries. i stand for trade policies that are based on genuine partnership, where, on the basis of the democratic public ownership and control of the world’s resources and the planning of the economy, the world’s wealth can be used for the benefit of the vast majority of the population and not the profit of a few.
madam president, firstly i would like to compliment mr draghi on the very good job he has done since coming into office. i think that most independent observers would agree that he has lived up to his statement about doing whatever was necessary to save the euro. he has done this and has probably frightened off some ego-inflated economists and speculators, which was a good thing. having said that, i would like to ask him a few questions à propos this report: amendment 1 speaks about stimulating the sme sector. i would like to ask him if he is in favour of that, and what can be done to do this within his remit? also, since coming into office he has reduced interest rates, which has been widely welcomed. however, despite speculation, this has not happened in recent times. has he any plans to reduce interest rates in the immediate future, and if not, why not? thirdly, there is a lot of speculation that, while one sector of society is suffering, another sector which has money is actually saving money despite the low interest rates. does he believe that this is true, and what can be done to encourage those who are saving to spend in the real economy, which is absolutely vital? also, i welcome the fact that he has come here today to be accountable before us. does he think that the troika – which is now probably more famous in ireland than bono, despite the fact that probably nobody knows who they are – should also be brought before parliament to make them accountable? the final question concerns suggestions that there was political interference from the ecb in forcing the irish government to give the disastrous blanket bank guarantee in 2008, which has meant that the irish taxpayer has picked up 42% of the debt of the banks. is this true or is it not? finally, if he had a magic wand and could broaden his mandate, how broad would he make it?
madam president, colleagues, the european central bank has proved able and willing to take exceptional measures which go far beyond its remit when the stability and even survival of the financial sector is at risk. yet, when asked about the consequences of its actions and the missions for growth and employment, the ecb hides behind its very narrow and increasingly inadequate terms of reference, claiming its mission is to ensure price stability and curb inflation. whatever we make of the economic premises of the ecb, it holds dear about inflation. its blatant disregard for the levels of unemployment and economic performance in the member states lays its biases bare and shows how badly we need a new approach that promises public policy. at least we should have an ecb that treats public exchequers and taxpayers with a modicum of the generosity shown to the banks. mr draghi, you made your views clear when you declared the death of the european social model. you have thus shown that ecb independence is not a synonym for public neutrality. you come here to defend the strict conditions imposed on the bail-out countries as essential for recovery. when can we expect strict conditions to ensure that the banks pass on the cheap credit you grant them to our smes in the real economy?
madam president, one of the favourite tactics of the european central bank in gathering more power for itself through the course of this crisis has been the writing of ominous, but polite, ransom notes. for example, to the governments of ireland and italy, demanding austerity measures and bank bail-outs or threatening the collapse of their banking systems. it seems, if the reports from cyprus are to be believed, that the ecb and mr draghi have graduated to a new level of financial gangsterism. can i ask, mr draghi, is it true that the ecb threatened the withdrawal of liquidity assistance from the cypriot banks if the cypriot government did not sign a memorandum? if so, how can you justify the holding of the gun that was used in an attempted bank robbery of the cypriot people? finally, i note last month that the ecb has once more downgraded its economic forecasts. how do mr draghi and mr rehn justify the continuing downgrading of their forecasts? does it not illustrate that they are getting something wrong? i would like to suggest respectfully that what they are getting wrong is placing the interest of the bondholders before the interests of the economy and of working people as a whole, and the result is that they are underestimating the impact of austerity.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús fáilte a chur roimh mo chomhghleacaí, an taire brian hayes, anseo inniu agus molaim é as ucht a dhíograis agus as an dea-obair atá déanta aige i rith na huachtaránachta. in this regard, i found it interesting that it was stated that in regional policy there was a 6% error rate. i assume that in some regions it was far higher and in others it was lower, including – thankfully – in my own member state. but a 6% error rate is far too high. it was stated that these errors should have been spotted in member states, and you asked why. of course, one of the reasons is because it is probably easier not to – or perhaps more profitable not to. that would indicate that our sanctions and penalties are not strong enough, since if penalties were strong enough, you would have far less motivation not to notice errors. secondly, we have said – and i agree – that, at a time of economic recession and austerity, we need to streamline the spending and, above all, make unnecessary spending something we should not be doing in parliament. i think therefore we have to look at a single seat. it costs us eur 180 million a year to come to strasbourg every year, and 19 000 tonnes of co2 emissions. we are only here for 48 days in the year, so this place lies idle for 317 days. i can understand that, for historical reasons, perhaps it made sense to have different seats. nowadays, though, with the way the economy has gone and demands that we show leadership, we should look again at the whole question of the seats. in particular, we should look at all the seats so that we can make each of them sensible and practical and make good savings in that way.
thar ceann an ghrúpa alde. – a uachtaráin, ar an chéad dul síos ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl don leasuachtarán a tháinig isteach anseo anocht chun an cheist thábhachtach seo faoi threoirlínte cúnaimh stáit 2014 - 2020 a phlé linn. tá a fhios ag an leasuachtarán na tuairimí atá agamsa maidir leis an cheist seo, ós rud é gur chas mé leis. i would like to raise two important issues with the vice-president. firstly, it is essential that the population coverage in ireland is not reduced below current levels. i know that, when he mentioned greece and portugal, he inadvertently forgot to mention my own country, which has suffered as well, and i am pleased that it will be included – for the wrong reasons of course. a reduction would mean that areas with very high unemployment levels and very serious economic development challenges will be deprived, i believe, of an essential tool. i am extremely concerned at the prospect of prohibiting aid to large enterprises in ‘c’ regions, which includes ireland. the most peripheral and most remote areas located in the north-west and west of ireland would be most affected, including the areas where irish is spoken and for which i had responsibility some years ago. investment aid is needed to address deep-rooted regional problems such as geographical remoteness, poor connectivity and infrastructure. i am familiar with several companies which might not have established bases in these peripheral regions without this assistance. these are plants which are often part of larger international companies which globally employ more than 250 people or have a turnover greater than eur 50 million. the commission has indicated that aid would continue in specific circumstances, including for innovation, environment or energy investments. however, this is not the type of aid designed to counteract regional disadvantage that would be available to all regions in the eu. nor, finally, does it address the investment or development needs of companies that are focused on growth and expansion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the ecb’s 2011 annual report although i do regret that the resolution was not stronger on the need for more effective ecb action in support of growth and jobs. article 127 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu provides that once price stability is assured, i.e. inflation is at 2 % or less, the ecb is obliged to contribute to the eu’s general economic objectives – balanced economic growth, full employment, cohesion and solidarity, as set out in article 3 of the treaty on european union. the ecb’s mandate must now be re-interpreted to put greater emphasis on growth and jobs. i was also disappointed, indeed amazed, that the clauses welcoming the ecb’s actions to combat the excessive lending costs facing euro area member states and in favour of greater democratic accountability by the ecb to meps were removed or watered down in plenary. i do however welcome the reiteration of past ep calls for an increased budgetary capacity for the emu to support growth and social cohesion, and urging the commission to present proposals for a new european resolution fund and a european deposit guarantee scheme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as it provides for a means by which child support obligations can be enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance (november 2007) aims to make it easier to claim child support payments from a parent who lives in a different country. some parents face huge bureaucratic difficulties when chasing child support from someone who lives in a different country due to language barriers and varying legal systems. this proposal aims to reduce the red tape for citizens, assisting the single market and free movement ethos. parliament has already approved the convention but, with this vote, meps will be signing-off on its adoption into law under normal legislative protocol. ireland is also currently drafting statutory legislation to give statutory effect to the convention.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh an aire lucinda creighton chuig an teach chun an cheist thábhachtach seo a phlé. the committee on fisheries, as was said by previous speakers, decided to defer my report on technical conservation measures on two occasions, both in november and in december, and we had the almost unanimous support of this house. the whole purpose of deferring the vote was to focus attention on the impasse between the european parliament and the council of ministers and the issue of long-term management plans. as a gesture of good will, the committee agreed to proceed with the adoption of my report at the beginning of the irish presidency and following the commitment by minister simon coveney, the president-in-office, to make every effort to find an acceptable compromise. needless to say, like other colleagues, it can be said – understandably i believe – that i am disappointed at the lack of progress. but i would like to put on record the effort made by the minister at his first council meeting where he tabled this discussion over a luncheon meeting in brussels. it was the first time this was done and my report is there since 2009 and successive presidencies have not had success, but we have faith in this presidency and we hope that we can achieve a conclusion. i strongly believe that all parties, the commission, the council and the presidency should get back to the table and that an agreement can be reached in my opinion. the fallacy of all this is that the long-term management plans for mackerel are being used in practical terms over the last number of years. i would welcome the presidency’s commitment and perhaps the minister, the president-in-office, can confirm – as is my understanding from the commitment – that this will be resolved in the context of the reform. is the presidency suggesting that it will be resolved within the next few weeks?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i think there is no greater but more disgusting illustration of the madness of the capitalist system we live under than the reaction of the establishments around the world to the melting of the arctic ice. it could be ice-free in summer within thirty to forty years. the implications in terms of a rise in sea levels, but also the dramatic feedback effects in terms of the increase in the speed of global warming, should be truly shocking. in a worst-case scenario with the melting of the greenland ice sheet, sea levels could rise up to seven metres, which means not just bangladesh, not just the maldives, but london, dublin and los angeles all being under water. yet what is clearly a potential nightmare for hundreds of millions of people around the world and our planet makes oil and gas companies salivate at the prospect of getting access to yet more fossil fuels. others, including catherine ashton, are welcoming the opening-up of the northern sea route. with the environment facing greater crisis, world leaders respond with a new, unseemly race for the arctic. environmental organisations are calling for a global day of action next saturday to send a clear message: hands off the arctic. a sustainable solution means breaking with the logic of capitalist greed and promoting democratic planning towards the transition to a fossil-fuel-free economy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i of course agree that the rights of the people who live in the area are paramount, are to the fore. i do not think they are in favour of the destruction of the place in which they live. i think we disagree on how to define countries as capitalist or communist. just because you have a dictatorship that calls itself a communist party does not make it a post-capitalist society. what we see is different groups of imperialists – chinese, yes, russian, yes, us, yes, canadian, yes, and now the eu – trying to get in on the act, all engaged in this new race for the arctic. the losers will be the people who live there, people around the world and our planet.
mr president, the protection and preservation of the arctic region, in harmony with its population, is absolutely vital. we must at all times recognise the need to protect the indigenous arctic communities and to ensure that their concerns and their issues are clearly understood by the european union. i must say that, every time i visit the arctic, i am constantly reminded that it was the european parliament which opposed the sale of their sealskins, which used to make up a vital part of their income. the eu must promote sustainable use of resources in a way that does not compromise the arctic environment and will benefit local communities. in my capacity as the european parliament’s representative on the standing committee of the parliamentarians of the arctic region, i have been attending regular meetings with my colleagues from canada, denmark, finland, iceland, norway, russia, sweden and the united states. the standing committee has been at the forefront of international discussions in this area. the high-level cooperation will continue at our next meeting, which will take place in june in svalbard in norway. i have, on several occasions, raised the need for the eu to become a permanent observer of the arctic council, and i am very grateful to those members who are supportive of this. i welcome the recent application from the commission, and i am hopeful that it will be positively received. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – no, it is not really a misunderstanding. i am very well aware of the fact that there is an exemption. but in actual fact it is not my view, it is the view of those in the arctic and particularly those in greenland who have a stock of 380 000 sealskins at the moment that is ineffective. this is an opinion, but it is also a fact. if you speak the next time that these people are in parliament, i will arrange for you to meet them and you may then realise that they have so much in stock. it is a very clear fact. so we will have to await the outcome of the court case which is ongoing and we would expect that there would be a decision within a matter of months. so we will just have to wait and see.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, under lisbon, the citizens’ initiative was heralded as the next step in bridging the democratic deficit – a key tool in creating a citizen-centred europe. however, the flaws in this ambitious and groundbreaking legislative project are evident. we need only look to the findings of engagement with the public on this issue to see where the problems lie. for example, a european movement ireland survey found out on surveying the irish public that 86% of people had not heard of the citizens’ initiative, yet 70% of people would consider using it. the citizens’ initiative, the very instrument introduced to address the democratic deficit between citizens and policymakers to engage citizens with the european union project, is faltering due to a lack of communication and a complete absence of awareness of this avenue for engagement with the legislative process and policymaking. the fact that 70% of people would consider using it demonstrates that there is an appetite for true engagement with policymaking and an interest in informed active citizenship. citizens want to engage, contribute and have their voice heard. the fact that initiatives have been received on the right to water, waste management, media pluralism and speed limits, among others, are testimony to the potential of this tool as a real driver of european policy and engagement with citizens. as with the ongoing building and commitment in widening and deepening the european union, we must make a greater effort to engage with citizens in a meaningful and practical way and ensure that we are building a european union for citizens together with the citizens. one of the main criticisms levelled at the eu is that it does not communicate with its citizens. the other is that legislation is always ‘top down’. with the citizens’ initiative, if implemented with greater efficiency and commitment, we have the vehicle to engage citizens. however, this opportunity is being wasted by the very thing we consistently claim that we are opposed to: burdensome and excessive red tape. the technical registration and administrative criteria are formidable and problematic, and there are numerous complaints over issues of lack of clarity on admissibility. citizens should not have their time wasted. information and engagement should be put in place at an earlier point in the process. it is clear that the problems with the online collective system requirements must be addressed in a practical manner, making this citizens’ initiative actually accessible for citizens. i support the idea that there should be a single point of contact for the initiative so as to avoid the citizens organising the submission having to enquire in 27 – soon to be 28 – member states for information and updates. we must ensure citizens are treated equally, regardless of their nationality or where they are residing. there is real potential with this initiative, but we must ensure that it is given the support and structure for its realisation. this initiative is one of the key points in the lisbon treaty, and we have the duty and responsibility to the citizens and to democracy to ensure that it works for citizens and does not become another tokenistic measure. finally, i would like to ask a direct question to the commissioner. why can we not have a citizens’ initiative on the single seat? i understand that it has been proposed but that it has been blocked. i would like you to comment on that when you reply. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – i think mr mcmillan-scott has said it all, and i am somewhat mystified that we do not have the opportunity. i would like the issue to be directly addressed by the commissioner in her reply.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report because the financial and economic crisis is in fact a global crisis and has become intertwined with numerous other crises such as food, environmental and social crises.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i gcoinne leasú 31 agus leasú 32 den rialachán maidir le longa a athchúrsáil toisc go gcuirfeadh an tobhach a bheadh á ghearradh ag calafoirt faoi na leasuithe sin go mór leis an gcostas a bhíonn i gceist do longa agus do bháid ag calafoirt na héireann agus an aontais eorpaigh. is mórchúis imní í sin toisc go gcuirfí cumas iomaíochta chalafoirt na heorpa i mbaol dá bharr. d’fhéadfadh sé, freisin, go dtiontódh an earnáil iompair ón muiriompar agus ar ais i dtreo an tarlaithe de bóthar. ní chlúdódh an t-airgead a bheadh á bhailiú leis an tobhach sin ar athchúrsáil long na hiarmhairtí a bheadh i ndán do chomhshaol agus geilleagar chalafoirt an aontais eorpaigh dá thoradh.
mr president, i respect your right to decide who gets called for catch-the-eye, but i would suggest that the method by which you do so is disproportionate and inequitable. the groups here all vary in size and you decided to take one per group. i think if you look at this debate, the greens and the ppe group would have made up the majority, yet you decided to take one from every group. i think that was not the best way to do it. i am not criticising you personally, but i think it should be looked at for future reference.
a uachtaráin, molaim mo chara, ivo belet, as ucht an dea-obair atá déanta aige ar an ábhar seo. aontaím go hiomlán leis na moltaí atá á gcur aige romhainn. i think most europeans would say that we are in an economic crisis and that we need to get out of it. we have to become more competitive and we need to reduce energy costs in particular. for too long we have depended on imported fossil fuels from third countries. this is a proposal on how we can partly deal with that. prior to this we discussed the role of renewables. i think – certainly with technology improving year by year – we can now economically explore oil and gas opportunities off our coasts and do so in an environmentally-friendly way. the commissioner mentioned – and very rightly so – public opinion. we need to bring public opinion with us. we have a role to play in that, but so do the companies who will be doing the exploring. if we do that, then we can have energy security in europe.
madam president, in the middle of the worst economic crises ever to hit ireland, we had just two beacons of hope: our agricultural sector and our exports. now the agri sector has been hit by an unprecedented fodder shortage due to extraordinary weather conditions. it started during the second half of 2012 and continued into 2013. large parts of the country, particularly the region i represent, have seen little or no growth, adverse weather and extremely heavy rainfall. this means there is no grass and no first cut of silage, and that the desperate fodder prices are continuing unabated and could easily drag into next year. there are frantic efforts to import fodder from the uk and france, but animals are falling, costs of imported feed have escalated and there is little or no credit flow. farmers and their livestock are facing ruin. the farming organisations have estimated that the fodder crisis will cost irish farming approximately eur 1 billion. in this context, i am calling on the irish government to immediately apply to the solidarity fund for some respite for the agricultural sector.
mr president, my compliments to the rapporteur for her good work in this area. obviously, equality is something that we all cherish, but unfortunately it does not often happen in practice, especially if you attend parliament here on a thursday afternoon when we are dealing with human rights issues across the globe. in some countries women have very few rights indeed, and we try to correct that. but equally, even within the european union, while we have equality officially, the opportunities for women to progress are often very difficult and there are barriers which we are speaking about in terms of opportunities in politics, boards, etc. for that reason it is very important that the accession countries should have equality as a priority and that they should be seen to be making progress in terms of equality between men and women, otherwise they should be told that they will not be allowed to join the european union.
mr president, it goes without saying that one of the fundamental principles of a democratic society is freedom of the press. i think we would all agree with that. that is very important. also, of course, within the european union we want to have the highest possible standards in every one of the member states. of course there are different ways in which the freedom of the press is manipulated. sometimes we hear stories of the owners of media outlets controlling the content and of editors having maybe too much control over individual journalists in the press, radio and tv, and all these issues are important for us to discuss. but then there is also the fact that with freedom comes responsibility, in particular in relation to the reporting of what happens here in the european union. some media outlets are partial (to say the least) and unprofessional and sometimes report in a very negative way. we need to have fair play and the highest possible standards both in the freedom and in the application of that freedom in order that the press may have the authority and the respect it deserves.
mr president, could i just say that the obsession with the length of time of this council meeting disturbs me somewhat? i am not convinced that a meeting of ten hours is better than a meeting of two, and i sometimes think that, even in our own work in parliament, with the length of the meeting we often get a worse outcome. so let us be practical about this. there are two very real issues on the agenda for this short meeting of two hours, but that does not mean that great progress can be made. the first is on energy, and there have been many comments made about this energy debate. it is crucial if europe is to talk about reindustrialisation that we get our energy mix right and that we get our energy costs down. that will be a huge challenge, but i also want to add to it the issue of fuel poverty and the cost of fuel for low-income households. others have mentioned the need to look at an energy and climate policy that address both those issues. i am not sure we have got that balance right, but i think that tomorrow’s meeting should at least start and perhaps reach some conclusions on that particular point. on the second issue on the agenda, tax fraud and tax havens: tax fraud is a crime. if we want to detect crimes we need good policing, so we need good financial policing to detect these frauds within our member states and across the european union. there was some schoolboy sniggering here about olive oil. let us be clear on that particular issue: that is about fraud, a food fraud, and i think that the measures taken on that are required. on the tax issue, however, let us be clear that the oecd has a definition for a tax haven and it is worth recalling what it is: first, that a country has no taxes or only nominal taxes, and second, that there is a lack of transparency. the third indicator is an unwillingness to exchange information, and we know that that is crucial with tax administrations; and the fourth indicator is an absence of substantial activity requirements. we have a definition. let us apply that if we can at european union level, and let us get that one trillion working within the union to create jobs and tackle youth unemployment.
mr president, it was benjamin franklin who wrote that ‘in this world nothing can be certain except death and taxes’. if he was writing today he would have to add the words ‘unless you are apple, google, or facebook’, because the figures are stark. apple makes international profits of eur 17 billion and pays taxes of eur 8 million: that is a rate of 0.05%. google ireland ltd: profits of eur nine billion, taxes of eur 22.2 million: a rate of one quarter of one per cent. facebook ireland: profits of eur 1 billion, taxes of eur 3.2 million: a rate of one third of one per cent. how do they get away with it? they all use the tax scam known as the ‘double irish’, with corporations incorporated in ireland but registered for tax in bermuda. so how can the minister seriously talk about tackling aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance when ireland itself functions as a tax haven, as reported yesterday in the us senate report? what makes it even more galling is that, at the same time as facilitating the tax avoidance of the major corporations in the world, the irish government is engaged in a campaign of threatening to rob the property tax from working people. well, this is my return for the bail-out tax. i will not be registering, together with hundreds of thousands of other people who will be saying: ‘let the rich pay their taxes, working people have paid enough’.
mr president, there are two topics and one headline figure. the topics are energy and tax; the headline figure is eur 1 trillion. eur 1 trillion is needed for energy as soon as possible, and eur 1 trillion has not been collected in tax. it is an enormous figure: bigger than the european budget. why should this be so? of course, one of the main reasons was pointed out this morning, namely that it is profitable for companies not to pay tax. they spend money hiring lawyers, but they save a lot more. i think it is time we eliminated the loopholes and made the loophole lawyers redundant, because that is really where all this is coming from. secondly, we need to look at penalties. if penalties are draconian enough, individuals and companies will think twice before they engage in tax evasion measures. we must try, at european level, to deal with these two issues in particular – eliminate loopholes and increase penalties – and, above all, have a coordinated approach. mr karas spoke about solidarity. we certainly need solidarity. we need coordination rather than harmonisation. if we get coordination across the european union, we can deal with this, and we can get that eur 1 trillion that we need so badly for energy overnight. that will show citizens that the european union actually works for them.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar moladh na tuarascála i dtaca leis an tréimhse toghchánach a shocrú do na dátaí ón déardaoin 22 bealtaine go dtí an domhnach 25 bealtaine. ní mór go nglacfaí cinneadh cinnte ar na dátaí sin chomh luath agus is féidir ionas go mbeadh a ndóthain ama ag na ballstáit chun na toghcháin a eagrú. ní mór dom, áfach, aird a tharraingt freisin ar an ngéarghá atá ann le cinneadh a ghlacadh maidir leis an méid suíochán a bheidh in ndán do gach ballstát. níor chóir, mar atá ráite cheana agam, go mbeadh suíochán á chailliúint gan cheist ag ballstáit bheaga agus mheánmhéide cosúil le héirinn toisc aontachas na cróite leis an ae. ní foláir, in ionad an réiteach “is lú locht”, mar atá á ghlaoch air, go mbainfí comhréiteach amach a chosnóidh, mar is ceart, leas mhuintir na héireann.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm cuidiú leis an tuarascáil seo agus is léir go raibh áthas ar an gcuid is mó de na feisirí é sin a dheanamh comh maith, mar bhí 618 feisire i bhfabhar na tuarascála. téann se le réasún gur mar sin is cóir dó a bheith. mar is eol do chách, thosaigh an réabhlóid tionsclaíoch sa mhór-roinn seo agus, le deanaí, chailleamar a lán dar dtionscail, go háirithe tionscail throma, mhóra. ach tá seans againn anois jabanna a chruthú trasna na heorpa ar fad trí athfhíorú a dhéanamh ar na tionscail, go háirithe tionscail bheaga. ba chóir duinn úsáid a bhaint as cistí struchtúrtha, deontais, agus mar sin de, chun cabhrú leo. sa tslí sin éireoidh linn jabanna a chur ar fáil, go háirithe don aos óg.
in writing. − almost three quarters of europe’s exports are made up of industrial goods. industry provides direct employment jobs for over 50 million people and indirect employment for another 100 million across europe. since the start of the crisis, over three million jobs have been lost in european industry. however, countries with a strong industrial sector such as germany and austria have managed the crisis better than those with a smaller industrial sector. and former industrial regions such as manchester in the uk, lille in france, essen and the ruhr in germany, and bilbao in spain show that it is possible to use eu funding and support to become modern industrial regions. europe needs to develop a smart industrial policy that encourages traditional sectors to grow while at the same time investing in high-tech and innovative approaches. this should encompass the development of regional strategies for industrial areas. i would urge the commission and the member states to act now on the positive recommendations set out in this resolution.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus tá moladh mór ag dul le mo comhghleacaithe agus mo chara, ivo belet, as ucht an jab iontach a rinne sé. tá moltaí ciallmhara anseo mar a dúirt an tuasal luhan cúpla nóiméad ó shin. gan dabht ar bith, tá amhras agus imní ar a lán saoránach faoi cad is féidir tarlú nuair a bhímid ag iarraidh gás agus ola a fháil ón bhfarraige. is féidir linn smaoineamh ar cad a tharla taobh amuigh de chósta dheisceart na stát aontaithe tamall beag ó shin. is dóigh liom go bhfuil na ceachtanna ón tubaiste sin curtha san áireamh ag ivo belet sa tuarascáil seo. má chuirimid na ceachtanna sin i bhfeidhm, go háirithe nuair a bheimid ag tabhairt ceadúnas do na comhlachtaí ola agus gáis, ní baol dúinn amach anseo, le cúnamh dé. tá súil agam go bhfeicimid ola agus gás ag teacht isteach inár gcalafoirt go luath.
in writing. − drilling for oil and gas offshore is dangerous and difficult. with this directive, we are putting in place the first ever eu-wide rules aimed at ensuring high environmental protection and safety standards for offshore oil and gas operations. earlier this year, plans to drill for oil in dublin bay were suspended following a legal challenge claiming that the 1997 environmental impact assessment directive had been incorrectly transposed into irish law, by the (previous) irish government. the new directive introduces new environmental protection and safety obligations for oil and gas companies planning to drill off the irish coast. it requires firms to prove their ability to cover any potential liabilities deriving from their operations, to submit major hazards reports, and emergency response plans before drilling can start. this new directive would apply to any plans to drill in dublin bay after 2015. i know some ngos would have preferred to see stronger eu legislation in this area, particularly as regards compensation for tourism and fisheries and drilling in the arctic. i would say that there will be a full review of this legislation within three years of its taking effect and i would hope these issues can be revisited then.
i scríbhinn. − ní léiríonn leasú 3 i dtaca le srianta i leith ar na ballstáit meas mar is ceart ar phrionsabal na coimhdeachta agus, dá bhrí sin, vótálamar i gcoinne na gné áirithe sin.
a uachtaráin, bhí an-díospóireacht againn ar an ábhar seo aréir agus tá áthas orm gur glacadh le tuarascáil reul anseo inniu. vótáil mé ar son na moltaí go léir, in éineacht le mo ghrúpa, ach le heiseacht amháin: leasú 1(i), binding emissions targets. vótáil mé agus mo chomhghleacaithe i bhfine gael i gcoinne an ghrúpa sa leasú sin. tá ceathrar againn ann agus glacadh leis an leasú le trí vóta, 339 i bhfabhar agus 336 i gcoinne agus, dá bhrí sin, rinneamar an difríocht. b’fhéidir nach bhfuil an grúpa chomh sásta linn faoi sin, ach is dóigh liom gurb é an cinneadh ceart é. ní aontaím le sprioc 40 nó 45%, ach anois tá seans againn féachaint air agus moladh ciallmhar a thabhairt isteach.
mr president, if it is any consolation, what i am about to say has not yet been said in today’s debate at least. i shall make two comments. the first concerns fossil fuels and the recent interest at eu level in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, for shale gas. last week in parliament we heard figures which indicated that shale gas would account for only 2-3% of the eu’s requirements. therefore, it would not make economic sense if the eu were to pursue an energy policy with shale gas as one of its main planks. instead, i believe we need to focus on renewables. my second point is that, while renewables are crucial to the future of our energy mix, i have a concern about onshore wind energy. wind turbines must be sited at adequate and safe distances from private homes, schools etc. adequate distances would be 500 metres where the turbine is 50 metres in height, increasing in steps to about 2 000 metres where the height of the wind turbine is greater than 150 metres. this is crucial to protect citizens from noise and shadow flicker.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the reul resolution on renewable energy, particularly the first part of amendment 1 (initiated by the s&d shadow rapporteur, and others) urging the commission to propose a mandatory eu-wide renewable energy target for 2030, which was adopted by the tightest of margins. however, i was very disappointed that parliament did not follow-through on the logic of this call by also adopting the second part of amendment 1 and actually spelling out that we want to see europe adopt a 40 %-45 % res target for 2030. such a target for 2030 would stimulate industrial innovation and competitiveness, create high-quality green jobs and reduce europe’s high dependency on imported fossil fuels. a renewables share of 45 % is technically and economically feasible and would put europe on course to ensure we achieve our long-term commitments to tackle climate change. i would urge the commission to support a binding 40 %-45 % target for 2030 as part of a new 2030 climate and energy package, due in the last quarter of this year, and to include a legislative proposal to this effect in this package.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the cornelissen resolution on women’s rights in the balkan accession countries. many countries in the western balkans that have applied to join the eu have already adopted much of the legislation on gender equality that must be in place before accession can take place, but in many cases these laws have not been effectively implemented, nor is there general awareness among the public of this legislation. women are under-represented in economic and political decision-making in the balkan accession countries, as in many western european countries such as my own. i therefore strongly endorse the call on those countries which have not already done so to promote female representation and, where necessary, to apply quotas effectively in political parties and national assemblies, and the call encouraging those countries which have already taken these steps to continue this process in order to enable women to participate in political life and to overcome their under-representation.
in writing. − i support this report as it outlines a framework for ensuring the protection and promotion of fundamental rights in the context of a free and plural media landscape, particularly in relation to freedom of expression, information and opinion formation. the report was born out of a threat to media independence in some member states. we must address these issues by incorporating independence, integrity, experience and professionalism into media frameworks. in an age where media plays such an influential role in our daily lives, i believe it is imperative to promote a transparent and autonomous media landscape in all member states to protect democracy and guarantee freedom of expression. to strengthen democracy, media councils and regulatory bodies need to remain independent from political and government influence. we must also deter conflicts of interest where national news agencies or news monopolies dominate. we can do so through the implementation of intervention mechanisms, especially competition and media rules. parliament hopes to monitor the situation through a yearly report on media freedom, so as to gain a broader view of the media landscape and act appropriately when violations arise.
mr president, again and again we are bombarded with propaganda that says there is a demographic time bomb, we are living too long and we must therefore work longer. we see the identical logic in the troika diktats. it is the neoliberal logic that says that it is workers and their families who should pay for this crisis, and that the right of big business to amass vast profits is sacred and must not be questioned. contrary to the propaganda, the resources are there to fund decent pension schemes for all. productivity levels have increased sevenfold in the hundred years or so since the founding of many state pension schemes. what we are talking about are deferred wages of workers. there is eur 750 billion in so-called excess cash holdings lying on the balance sheets of the major european corporations. these major corporate profits, that are not being invested or used in any socially useful way, should be used to fund pension schemes to ensure a decent income in retirement for all. unfortunately neither of the resolutions voted on today points to this wealth as a solution.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo chomh maith. glacadh leis le móramh mór: 502 i bhfabhar, 138 i gcoinne agus 49 ag staonadh. gan dabht ar bith is ceart dúinn díriú ar an ábhar seo, mar tá imní ar a lán duine faoi phinsin sa lá atá inniu ann de bharr an cúlú eacnamaíochta agus, faraor, tá a bpinsin caillte ag a lán duine. dá bhrí sin, is cóir dúinn féachaint ar shlite nua chun pinsin a sholáthar do dhaoine, go háirithe ós rud é go bhfuil daoine ag maireachtaint níos faide anois ná riamh, agus leanfaidh sé sin ar aghaidh amach anseo le cúnamh dé. mar sin, ba chóir dúinn féachaint ar shlite nua, mar a dúirt mé, agus rud amháin nár cheart a dhéanamh ná an aois gur féidir le daoine pinsin a fháil a laghdú. níl aon chiall leis sin. tá sé ag tarlú i dtír nó dhó ach, bíodh sin mar atá, caithfimid ár ndícheall a dhéanamh ar son ár saoránaigh.
mr president, with regard to pensions, the figures are truly frightening. in ireland, some calculations show that we would need a further – a further – eur 20 billion per annum between now and 2050 in order to guarantee the same level of pensions. even if the retirement age were to rise significantly and even if these calculations are over-estimated, there is still a yawning gap between what we are currently providing and what we need to provide. so we need a multi-pillar pension approach and this would include three axes, as it were. first of all, a pay-as-you-go universal system; secondly, a supplementary occupational funded system; and thirdly, an individual third-pillar system based on savings, with special incentives for those on lower incomes, the self-employed and those with incomplete contributions. finally, in the case of those who need to leave work or simply to work part-time in order to carry out care duties, we must ensure the introduction of care-related pension credits so that those persons do not lose out on their pensions and become the next generation of poorer older people, mainly women.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, tá córais phinsin phinsinéirí na heorpa faoi bhrú. sa chéad chás de, tá daonra na heorpa ag dul in aois, tá saol níos faide agus sláinte níos fearr in ndán anois do phinsinéirí. tá méadú de bhreis is 2 mhilliún sa bhliain ag teacht ar an méid daoine atá thar aois a 60. sa dara cás, áfach, tá laghdú ag teacht ar an bpobal infhostaithe agus ar rátaí breithe. sa bhliain 2008 bhí ceathrar fostaithe do gach pinsinéir. faoi 2060 beidh pinsinéir amháin ann do gach beirt a bheidh ag obair. fearaim fáilte roimh mholtaí na tuarascála atá bunaithe ar an gclár oibre eorpach do phinsin leordhóthanacha, sábháilte agus inmharthana agus atá dírithe ar óg agus aosta. cé go dtiteann cúrsaí pinsin faoi fhreagracht na mballstát don chuid is mó, tá tábhacht iontach ag baint le comhordú an ae sa scéal seo. tacaím go háirithe lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le heolas níos fearr agus níos soiléire maidir le pinsin a chur ar fáil. ní foláir go mbeadh fáil éasca ag muintir an ae ar eolas cruinn ceart faoi phinsin agus faoi na rioscaí a bhíonn ann, ar mhaithe le cinntí eolasacha cúramacha a ghlacadh.
in writing. − pensions are a member state responsibility but european coordination does have an important role to play.. firstly, the state pension must remain the backbone of national pension systems. a good state pension is the best guarantee of at least a decent replacement income after retirement that protects against poverty. secondly, there should be no automatic linkage between life expectancy and the statutory retirement age. increasing employment is the fundamental basis for funding public pension schemes. i welcome paragraph 12 which emphasises the need for consensus between governments and the social partners on enabling people to work at least until the statutory retirement age, and beyond, if they so wish. thirdly, i would oppose the application of the same capital requirements that apply to insurance companies (‘solvency ii’) to occupational pension systems. iorps cover around 25 % of the eu workforce and manage assets worth around eur 2.5 billion, or 30 % of the eu gdp. the commission should consider this point very carefully before it issues its proposal to revise the iorps directive this autumn. fourthly, i welcome the emphasis in the resolution on preserving and strengthening the pension rights of mobile workers.
mr president, the elephant in the room in this debate is, of course, cyprus. let us recall that the cypriot government, with the agreement of the troika, was willing to effectively break the deposit guarantee scheme and rob money from small depositors. that threat cannot be undone, and it significantly undermines all this talk about banking union. dr sheila killian from ireland drew an accurate comparison when she wrote: ‘imagine a snowed-in family just once agreeing that, if we get really hungry, we can eat the rabbit’. you can take that back all you like. everybody knows that the rabbit is not safe any more. he is not just a pet. he is protein. depositors are not just protected customers now; they are also a source of money to save the bank. it shows that there are no rules that will not be broken in the scramble to protect the interests of the one per cent. who is to say that bank accounts will not be raided in spain, portugal, greece or even ireland at a later stage? really effective banking supervision means democratic public ownership and control over the banks, which is the only way you can have control over banking policy: avoiding speculative activities, ensuring that small businesses can get access to credit, and stopping people being evicted from their homes.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done on this and to acknowledge mrs creighton’s work during the presidency. i want to say a particular word of acknowledgement to commissioner barnier because he always listens and tries to listen, and to thank him for his willingness to meet with people. i really appreciate that. there are four quick points i wish to make. the european commission has made it clear that all steps necessary for the creation of the european banking union can be created within the limits of the existing eu treaties. i think any doubts about that need to be nipped in the bud, because it only creates a lack of confidence for people to be talking about treaty changes that probably cannot be delivered. secondly, in relation to the recapitalisation of the banks, this has to be available on a retrospective basis to banks that are capable of taking on the responsibility of restructuring and have shown their ability to step up to the mark, so to speak. three: i want to make the case – and i think the commissioner needs to take an interest in this, and the minister, and the house – that banks simply cannot pass on interest rate increases to mortgage payers whenever they need to increase their profits, or refuse to pass on interest rate cuts, because they are becoming like tax-raising authorities, imposing these charges on people who have already paid their taxes through the nose to recapitalise these same banks. that is unfair and unjust and it should not be possible to further burden mortgage payers in this way. lastly, i want to raise the question about deposits. i do not believe there should be any doubts raised by anybody about deposits. in ireland, the effect of that was that the people who went to the building societies and banks in the village took out their money, went to the other end of the village and put it in a post office, which meant that the state ended up guaranteeing it all anyway, while banks were running dry. let us raise no question about deposits. we will end up as the guarantor for all of it anyway, and i think it is a very unwise thing to be even discussing publicly.
mr president, as commissioner barnier has said, if these measures had been in place half a decade ago, our recent economic history would have unfolded in a different way. sadly, his predecessor was the champion of light touch regulation, and in ireland we know that only too well. the aftershock of this sorry state of affairs has been painfully felt by citizens in ireland and beyond not with a light touch, but with heavy-handed austerity. the size of the banking sector in europe makes it impossible to ensure proper supervision with individual regulators, even when they are empowered and willing to fulfil their mandates. the european central bank is now being empowered with pan-european supervisory responsibilities and must accordingly acknowledge the need for enhanced democratic accountability. parliament must have more access to ecb documents and the right to openly hear and appoint the supervisory board chairs, as well as powers to investigate infringements and maladministration. in order to break the vicious circle tying exchequers and taxpayers to banking debt, we must show the same sense of urgency and have in place a european banking resolution mechanism, as well as a deposit guarantee scheme.
mr president, i too would like to compliment commissioner barnier for his good work on this, and indeed many other briefs, and also the irish presidency, minister creighton and minister noonan, for the progress they have made and the hard work they have done trying to bring this whole project forward. they have done so very successfully. i think the result of the creation of the banking union is that citizens will now have renewed trust in the banks, something they have not had for some time. the deposit guarantee scheme should also ensure that there will be certainty for depositors, which is very important as well. the single supervisory mechanism, i think, will focus the attention of the board of directors and shareholders on what they should be doing so that mistakes will not be made as in the past, because the message is now clear that, from now on, banks are not too big to fail. the banks are too big to bail, and any bailing will be done by themselves – a bail-in rather than a bailout. bravo.
i scríbhinn. – níl ach 5 % de na leabhair a fhoilsítear ar fáil i leaganacha a bheadh oiriúnach dóibh siúd a mbíonn deacrachtaí acu le téacs clóbhuailte agus ní bhíonn leagan inrochtana ar bith ar fáil i gcás 95 % d’fhoilseacháin. cé go bhfuil sé mar aidhm ag an dréachtchonradh go ndéanfaí comhchuibhiú ar eisceachtaí d’fhonn acmhainní a roinnt ar mhaithe le leaganacha inrochtana a chur ar fáil, is léir ón méid atá le rá ag eagraíochtaí a bhíonn ag gníomhú ar son lucht lagamhairc go bhfuil fadhbanna móra ag baint le hairteagal d agus le hairteagal e. cuireann airteagal d agus airteagal e iallach ar na heagraíochtaí sin leabhair a bhíonn ar fáil ar bhonn trádála i leaganacha inrochtana a aimsiú; ní amháin ina dtír féin ach thar lear freisin. is costas agus ualach iomarcach a bheadh sa mhéid sin. ní mór go mbeimis ag déanamh iarrachta fáil réidh leis na bacainní a bhíonn ann do dhaoine faoi mhíchumas, in ionad rialacháin agus maorlathas breise a chruthú dóibh. is léir, ó thaobh eisceachtaí agus teorainneacha cóipchirt de, go mba chóir spreagadh breise a thabhairt do shealbhóirí cóipchirt chun leaganacha inrochtana dá saothar a chur ar fáil.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i suppose that, at last, there is recognition of the crucial importance of the social pillar in words, but unfortunately not yet in deeds. commissioner andor said last january that the social dimension of the emu was crucial for the legitimacy of the european project, and that the proper functioning and public acceptance of the emu could only be guaranteed if steps to strengthen discipline, legitimacy and solidarity were taken simultaneously. that is true, but those steps have not been taken simultaneously. yes, we have heard lots about fiscal discipline, but solidarity and legitimacy must ring very hollow to those whose bank deposits were raided in cyprus, or to greek unemployed citizens now who have no access to healthcare, or to the millions of young people across europe who are unemployed. so the language is right, but what about the deeds? what progress are we making? i look, for example, at what is happening with the globalisation fund, where there is still a blocking minority in council. a fund to help redundant workers retrain and upskill has already been cut to the bone in budget negotiations and we are trying to get agreement to move it forward, but there is none. i look at the fund for food aid for the deprived: again there is a blocking minority in council. up to 40 million people across europe are experiencing some type of food poverty; that is their real, everyday lives. it is incredible, and i cannot believe that some members of the council will say to eu citizens, ‘we won’t fund this programme. this is the responsibility of the member states’. what does that say about the european social model? if we look at the youth guarantee at the moment, again there is disagreement about its inclusion in the social fund – it is only a recommendation. what does that say to all the young people that are unemployed across the eu? so the european institutions are not working together to solve these problems. as i said, commissioner: the language is right – you said we must do what it takes to deal with unemployment. but, if you look at what is happening right now, there is a huge gap between our words and our deeds.
madam president, commission rehn remains as committed as ever to taking us further down the ‘one-size-fits-all’ austerity path. the commission persists with an economic policy approach that not only flies in the face of the results on the ground but has also witnessed the crumbling of the intellectual case for austerity in recent times. of course, we have economic stagnation and unsustainable levels of unemployment as a direct consequence of an approach that ignores how our public debt was made much worse by saving the financial system. the ‘convergence and competitiveness’ instrument based on bilateral contractual arrangements between the commission and individual member states will short-circuit democratic accountability and ignore the role of this parliament. knowing your economic policy orientation, i believe these contracts will be turned into a bribe for member states to weaken their workers’ rights, lower salaries and, in the name of competitiveness, impose further cuts on our embattled welfare systems. a social pillar for the economic and monetary union must entail proper resources to offset the eurozone imbalances. true economic governance will not work without solidarity, and this cannot just be a fig leaf to cover the assumption that cuts alone will bring stability.
madam president, i, like most people in this parliament, support the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. indeed i am a strong supporter of tax justice, but the real question is: how do we achieve the best outcomes? i certainly agree with a lot in this report, such as the strengthening of european and international commitment to transparency and a system whereby we would not grant eu aid or member states would not grant state aid – or indeed allow access to public procurement – for companies that breach tax standards. however, in our rush to close up tax loopholes and ensure that multinational corporations pay their fair share of tax, we need to use the most effective and appropriate mechanisms and not be drawn into a false battle between member states which look at tax rates elsewhere, rather than looking at the cross-border element of all of this – that is, the interaction of tax regimes across countries in which global companies operate, rather than the law or practice in any individual country. indeed it is clear from the us senate debate at the moment that if the us wants to stem the rising tide of profits shifted overseas and consequent loss of tax revenues, it needs to look at closing loopholes in its own tax system.
i scríbhinn. − tacaímid go hiomlán lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le dul i ngleic leis an gcalaois agus le himghabháil chánach, lena gcailltear timpeall eur 1 trilliún d’airgead poiblí sa bhliain. is caillteanais eur2 000 sa bhliain do gach eorpach é sin, agus tá níos mó airgid á chailliúint ná mar atá á chaitheamh ar chúrsaí sláinte agus oideachais. vótálamar i gcoinne alt 25 maidir leis an gcomhbhonn cánach corparáide comhdhlúite (cccc), áfach, a d’iarr ar na mballstáit comhaontú ar an cccc a bhaint amach agus a chur i bhfeidhm. mar an gcéanna le tuarascáil gall-pelcz, an tuarascáil bhliantúil chánach: cumas an ae fás eacnamaíoch a bhaint amach. caithfimid a chur in iúl arís gur inniúlacht náisiúnta iad cúrsaí cánach agus nach mór don choimisiún eorpach agus do pharlaimint na heorpa cloí le sin. tugtar aitheantas don inniúlacht náisiúnta sin sa phrótacal breise a cuireadh le conradh liospóin chun freastal ar bhuarthaí mhuintir na héireann. ní dhéanfadh córas cccc maitheas ar bith d’fheidhmiú an mhargaidh aonair agus d’fhéadfaí go mbeadh drochthionchar aige ar gheilleagair bheaga oscailte cosúil le héirinn. chuirfeadh athrú ar an ráta cánach corparáide isteach ar ghné láidir sláintiúil de gheilleagar na héireann agus ar chumas téarnaimh agus fáis na tíre.
in writing. − the irish government has previously agreed to enter into discussions in good faith on a ccctb, while holding serious concerns as regards its effect on ireland. i strive to maintain a strong s&d group on economic issues and today have voted for this report on tax evasion and tax fraud, including calls for a ccctb in the eu. any implementation of such a proposal must take fully into account the views of the irish government as regards our competitive position as a small island nation off the west coast of europe. ireland uses tax policy as a key competitive advantage which attracts much needed quality jobs and tax revenue. any eu moves in the area of tax must take account of the effect on smaller member states, like ireland, in difficult economic times.
in writing. − eu member states lose an estimated eur 1 trillion – or eur 2 000 per person – in public money each year due to tax fraud and tax evasion. tax fraud and evasion is a global problem that cannot be solved by member states acting alone in isolation. it needs to be countered by stronger european and international action, not just declarations, with the aim of at least halving the eu tax gap by 2020. these lost revenues would go a considerable way towards providing the investments we need to make if we are to achieve the europe 2020 targets, including the funds needed to support youth guarantee schemes. we need stronger european and international action on tax transparency and the automatic exchange of information in tax matters internationally, as well as more effective eu rules against state aid and access to public procurement for companies that evade tax. we also need to see member states and third countries close tax loopholes in their own tax systems which facilitate tax evasion and fraud.
madam president, i fully support the fight against tax fraud but i strongly refute the suggestion made by one or two members yesterday that ireland is a tax haven. ireland’s tax system is fully transparent and in line with oecd and eu standards. indeed the oecd has four criteria for defining a tax haven, and none of those criteria applies to ireland. ireland was one of the first countries – one of just three member states in the eu to have done so at the moment – to sign an agreement with the us to improve international tax compliance. recently the oecd came forward with a new report – beps (base erosion and profit shifting) – on the issue of transfer pricing, and ireland secured an agreement at ecofin to have this document discussed at the next g8 and g20 meeting. it is no use singling out certain countries like ireland that have a low corporation tax and pretending that if that is increased it will solve all our problems, because it will not. yes, it is a disgrace that many multinationals pay little or no tax, but the way to deal with it is through the beps document that the oecd has produced and through international cooperation to close loopholes in cross-border taxation systems and thus ensure that fair levels of tax are paid.
i scríbhinn. − vótálamar i gcoinne alt 20 na tuarascála, maidir le comhaontú a bhaint amach i dtaca leis an gcomhbhonn cánach corparáide comhdhlúite (cccc) agus é a chur i bhfeidhm. is inniúlacht náisiúnta iad cúrsaí cánach agus ní mór don choimisiún eorpach agus do pharlaimint na heorpa cloí leis sin. tugtar aitheantas don inniúlacht náisiúnta sin i gcúrsaí cánach sa phrótacal breise a cuireadh le conradh liospóin chun freastal ar na buarthaí áirithe a bhí ag muintir éireann. ní dhéanfadh córas cccc san ae maitheas ar bith d’fheidhmiú an mhargaidh aonair agus, go deimhin, d’fhéadfaí go mbeadh drochthionchar aige ar gheilleagair bheaga oscailte cosúil le héirinn. chuirfeadh athrú ar an ráta cánach corparáide isteach ar ghné láidir shláintiúil de gheilleagar na héireann agus, mar sin, ar chumas téarnaimh agus fáis na tíre.
madam president, i very much welcome this vote to adopt new rules to protect victims of domestic violence, stalking or harassment across the eu. under this regulation, which will take effect from january 2015, people who were granted civil law protection in one eu country will be fully protected in another on completion of a short form. it will ensure that they are able to move freely across europe with the same level of protection they have in their home country. this protection will give great reassurance to people whose lives are threatened by violence. it will give them the freedom to travel abroad for holidays or work, or indeed for longer periods without fear. the regulation covers all threats to people’s physical and moral integrity, including threats to dignity, security, personal freedom and sexual integrity. over 100 000 women across the eu, and including approximately 1 000 in my own country, ireland, benefit from protection orders in their home country but not in other countries. it is vitally important that victims are supported wherever they are in europe and that this protection remains in place when people move.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as an important step to further ensure the safety of victims of violence. the new directive will complement the already established european protection order directive, which applies to criminal cases, where victims will now be protected in instances of civil matters also. this directive means that victims of gender violence, stalking or abduction will be legally protected in all member states, regardless of where they have been granted protection. it is an important step at a time when one in four women experience violence during their lifetime. the new directive adds to the model of free movement of persons within the eu. i believe the free movement of persons is much more than the free movement of workers. it is good to see that in this instance, the notion of eu citizenship extends beyond the area of economic activity and into the realm of social liberty. i also welcome the directive as it will improve the experience of those affected by violence when they move to a new country. they will be eligible for further information and assistance and the procedure will also be made easier when applying for a certificate of protection.
in writing. − the giegold report provides for a variety of provisions relating to banking supervision which i was happy to endorse. however, i support a delay in its adoption. it forms a key part of parliament’s input to the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism, and the role of the european banking authority (eba) therein. notably, it calls for the implementation of a single supervisory rulebook, which is a logical step in the current drive to simplify and overhaul supervisory and regulatory mechanisms. the rapporteur, mr giegold, is quite right to observe that ‘the ecb needs to get used to democratic accountability,’ and many of the provisions in his report sent a correct signal in that direction. finally, i echo the calls of some mep colleagues for this house to be very sensitive in ensuring that non-euro zone countries do not have any reason to feel that they are being left out of the system.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús madam thyssen a mholadh as ucht na dea-oibre sa tuarascáil seo. gan dabht, bhí an ceart aici an vóta deiridh a chuir ar ceal go fóill, mar caithfear a bheith cinnte go bhfuil gach rud soiléir, cruinn agus ceart sula dtógfaimid an vóta deiridh. tá seans againn é sin a dhéanamh anois agus teacht ar ais arís lá éigin eile. freisin, tá moladh mór ag dul d’uachtarántacht na héireann, go háirithe an taire um ghnóthaí eachtracha, eamonn gilmore, agus an taire airgeadais, michael noonan, as ucht an dea-obair atá déanta acu chun aontas baincéireachta eorpach a chur ar bun. tá daoine áirithe ag rá nach bhfuil sé sin dleathach de réir na gconarthaí, ach ní dóigh liom go bhfuil an ceart acu. a luaithe agus a bheidh an aontas baincéireachta eorpach againn beidh sé níos fearr do shaoránaigh mar beith muinín acu arís inár mbainc, rud a bhfuil géarghá leis.
in writing. − in june 2012, the european council, at last, recognised the need to separate banking and sovereign debt. giving practical effect to this decision in effect means creating a european banking union, a key component of which is a single supervisory mechanism (ssm) for banks. i welcome the progress that has been made by parliament this week towards an ssm. we need to put europe’s banks on a sound footing so that they can do what they were always meant to do – serve the needs of the real economy and support growth and jobs. we also need to ensure that the appalling mistakes of the past are not repeated and, crucially, that taxpayers would be fully protected from any future banking crisis. i particularly welcome the emphasis being placed in this resolution on proper democratic accountability and transparency. i want to see parliament and the council reach agreement on this issue over the coming months and then see progress towards a european bank resolution framework, including a single european resolution fund and a european deposit guarantee schemes mechanism.
in writing. − i supported the delay on the thyssen report on policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions for a number of reasons. as a proposal it has many positive elements. firstly, if fully transposed into law, it will improve accountability: it allows the european parliament to establish an inquiry committee, and makes provisions for european central bank (ecb) supervisors to be heard in both the european parliament and national parliaments, including provision of confidential information from in-camera meetings. it also makes provisions for the chair and the vice-chair of the banking supervisory board to be approved by meps. a further useful improvement is the clause whereby the ecb will establish a board of appeals for settling complaints and appeals against the bank's supervisory capacity. in an era of unprecedented public distrust for political and financial institutions, these and other provisions will underline the efforts being made at european parliament level to improve the efficiency, transparency and accountability of credit institutions throughout the eu. i echo the rapporteur's view that ‘displacing powers from the national level must go hand in hand with creating accountability at the eu level’.
madam president, the vast plundered resources of countries in north africa and the middle east must be returned to the people of those countries. let us not forget the role of the western leaders in this plunder. how many of the millions of people in the region still struggling for a decent life will forget the images of sarkozy, merkel, berlusconi and obama, shaking hands with the likes of ben ali and gaddafi? to this day, dictatorial regimes like those in morocco, bahrain and saudi arabia can still count on the west’s full support. debt is another form of plunder, and it is currently being used as a weapon to impose neo-colonial domination and neo-liberal reforms. tunisia, for example, is left with an external debt of usd 14.4 billion from the ben ali days. not a cent of this debt benefited ordinary people but they are paying for it through vicious austerity and neo-liberal reforms in return for an imf loan. this debt should not be paid; it is not the people’s debt. it is the debt of the trabelsi clan; it is the debt of … (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card answer. – thanks for the question. i think the green mep answered the point in terms of the relevance of the discussion to this debate. first, you should do some political research about the people you are asking questions of. i do not come from the political tradition that i think you think i come from. i come from a trotskyist tradition – those who also faced oppression under the regimes in eastern europe, russia and so on. so everywhere across the world i have supported the rights of peoples struggling for a genuinely democratic and socialist change. i think the key question for the discussion today is the question of the people in north africa and the middle east and the fact that again and again, imperialism internationally has not been the friend of those people and will not be the friend of those people in the future.
madam president, when we hear the irish presidency, the commissioner and indeed some members in this house talk about this proposed agreement, you have the impression that they are talking about some sort of santa claus for europe. it is bringing jobs, it is bringing economic growth, we have heard it is bringing prosperity, and all with no visible negatives. i do not believe that these promises are going to be delivered on. i think the example of nafta illustrates that point. instead, what we are going to see with this process of secret negotiations without real public scrutiny – without real political scrutiny – is an attempt to converge labour, environmental and social standards downwards, for example with an attempt by us agri-business to get access to the eu market for gmos. the leaked draft mandate illustrates the real agenda behind these negotiations. it is one shaped by the interests of big business rather than working people on either side of the atlantic. that is why i am opposed to the opening of these negotiations and to a possible agreement for a free-trade area. in the draft, you see an attempt to give privileged access to justice for big business. what happened in canada with nafta shows what will happen with this agreement. at the moment, there are usd 2.5 billion worth of claims pending against canada for imposing regulations in the public interest, including regulations against fracking. a joint struggle across the atlantic by working people is needed to stop this attempted race to the bottom in the atlantic.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i think we have to place today’s debate in a geopolitical context. it is clear that myanmar is rich in natural resources and situated in an extremely important strategic location. so, as david martin suggested, the major multinationals and the world powers want to get access to these resources and to the country. there is no question that there have been important improvements and reforms in myanmar, but the point is that they are definitely not irreversible. the situation regarding religious and ethnic minorities, in particular the rohingya muslims in kachin state, is terrifying. the forced recruitment of child soldiers has not ceased. arbitrary arrests, forced displacements and land confiscation are still the order of the day. there are reports from the trade union movement that the riot police have used military-issue white phosphorus grenades to disperse protesters recently. this is all worrying, and it confirms my view that it is too early to take a decision on gsp reinstatement. that is why i do not think that the european parliament can have it both ways – that we pass, on the one hand, a strongly worded resolution expressing our strong concerns about human rights violations, but, on the other hand, agree to reinstate gsp, thereby sending the opposite signal. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
blue-card answer. – i reject your false choice of neo-imperialist or protectionist. i am neither. i am trying to do here what i think is in the best interests of ordinary people in burma. listening to ordinary people on the ground in burma – for example the minorities who are continuing to face very extreme repression – i think we have to look at what signal we send. i would ask you what interests you are representing here. is it the interests of the multinationals who want to get access and are using an improvement that is real and is taking place as a pretext for pre-existing economic interests? the only interest that we should be looking at here is what is in the interests of people in burma. in my opinion it is too soon to reinstate gsp.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom, cosúil le feisirí eile, mo chomhbhrón a chur in iúl do mhuintir na banglaidéise as ucht an tragóid a tharla ann le déanaí agus, freisin, mo chomhbhrón a chur in iúl do mhuintir na breataine as ucht an méid a tharla ar shráideanna chathair londain inné. maidir le banglaidéis, is tragóid í seo mar ní raibh aon ghá léi. dúirt na cigirí an lá roimhe nach raibh an foirgneamh slán sábháilte, ach chuir úinéirí na monarchan brú ar na hoibrithe dul isteach agus chonaiceamar cad a tharla: maraíodh breis agus míle duine. níl aon ghá leis sin agus níor cheart cur suas leis. mr president, leaders around the world have expressed their outrage at what happened in bangladesh, and rightly so. the pope has pointed out that the headline figure that grabbed him most was that these workers were being paid eur 38 per month. he described it as ‘slave labour’, and he is right. he mentioned putting profit before people, and he is right there too. we have an obligation to try to change that. the commission was right. in the words of my colleague elisabeth köstinger: ‘we should be ambassadors for european standards’. we have to work with the bangladeshi authorities to ensure that high standards prevail. in cases where buildings have been condemned, we have to ensure that the owners cannot force workers to enter them. we will also have to help them look at other accidents that are waiting to happen, so that such incidents can be averted. finally, we have to compel the big multinational retailers to sign up to a code of conduct and, if they do not, then we should ask the public not to support their goods.
mr president, as bangladesh’s largest trading partner, the eu cannot stand idly by while accidents proliferate in slave-like working conditions. the international labour organisation has quoted stark yearly estimates for fatal accidents and work-related diseases in this country. voluntary corporate auditing has proved woefully inaccurate, as this building had been certified in the days prior to its collapse. bangladesh enjoys duty-free and quota-free access to eu markets under a system of preferences. i acknowledge its importance for much-needed economic development, but binding commitments are necessary to prevent further loss of workers’ lives and to guarantee decent working conditions. as individual consumers cannot verify the conditions under which garments are manufactured, the commission must ensure manufacturers’ adherence to binding instruments such as the bangladesh fire and safety agreement and respect for the international labour organisation tripartite declaration of principles concerning multilateral enterprises and social policy.
mr president, it is said that, where labour is cheap, life is cheap. that has, unfortunately, become the living nightmare of four million workers – primarily women workers – in the garment industry in bangladesh. the recent collapse of the rana plaza factory that left more than 1 100 workers dead exposes everything that is rotten about the globalised capitalist system. there is an urgent need for adequate compensation to be paid by multinational retailers like primark, walmart, gap and metro who have made huge profits from cheap labour, where the cost of labour is estimated to be between 3 and 5% of the final price. but there is obviously more at stake here. in order to end the gross exploitation of workers, trade union rights are crucial in a country that has a bad record on workers’ rights. because of the public outcry, the multinationals have now shed crocodile tears, but in reality these horrific events expose the hypocritical nature of voluntary corporate social responsibility schemes. massive pressure needs to be placed on them to force them to accede to the bangladesh building and safety agreement developed by ngos and trade unions. if the gross exploitation is to end, the major factories have to be taken out of the hands of those producing for greed and profit and taken into the democratic control and management of working people.
mr president, cats, dogs and ferrets – well, we no longer have many ferrets in ireland since we gave up hunting rabbits, but we certainly have dogs and cats. in fact the most famous supporter of the limerick football and hurling teams is a dog called ahane. he dresses up in red and white and brings his owner to every match. i myself am a cat man. i have ten cats, and i take grave exception to mr davies’s remark that cats are indifferent. on the contrary, they are very engaging and very cuddly. while you have cats, you will have no rats or mice, so they serve a dual purpose. the rapporteur mentioned that in europe we have 64 million cats and 66 million dogs. if he had added 10 million barrels of porter, he could have been singing the great irish song, ‘the irish rover’. however, i thank him for his good work and particularly his compliments to the irish presidency in moving this report forward.
in writing. − there is no doubt that burma is changing. for the past two years, it has been moving towards democratisation, openness and reform. these changes have led to the council lifting the sanctions originally imposed in 1997 due to the routine and widespread use of forced labour, in clear breach of ilo convention 29, and also, arising from new ilo conclusions on this issue, to this commission proposal to reinstate eu trade preferences to burma. i do believe now is the time to reinstate eu trade preferences to burma. burma will be required to maintain and improve its reform process, including in relation to peace talks with ethnic minorities, the release of all remaining political prisoners without delay or conditions, adherence to the rule of law, cooperation with international observers such as the ilo, the elimination of the use of child soldiers and burma’s joining the extractive industries transparency initiative. finally, i would also share the rapporteur’s concern about the unseemly rush by developed countries’ industries into burma. i want to see proper regulation of their activities as well as strong csr conditions and a centralised reporting mechanism on csr activities by firms operating in burma.
mr president, i supported this resolution on the situation of the refugees in syria. we are facing a major humanitarian crisis in syria, as we have four million refugees – mostly women and children – seeking refuge in neighbouring countries and in north africa. there are two areas i want to highlight. first of all, i am very concerned about reports of the use of rape and so-called mut’ah marriages of pleasure. rape and sexual violence in a war situation are war crimes. we need to ensure that these women are looked after and that resources are allocated to them. secondly, i want to raise the situation of the palestinian refugees. there are already 530 000 refugees in syria, and over 400 000 of these have been displaced. unrwa is doing remarkable work with the palestinian refugees, but it has been stretched to capacity and is finding that its resources are not elastic. we need to ensure that member states support the work of unrwa with the palestinian refugees and i urge member states to do so.
in writing. − what began as a popular mass uprising, as part of a wave of uprisings in the region, against the repressive, corrupt assad-led regime and against high poverty levels and unemployment has descended into an increasingly sectarian civil war. working people are paying the greatest price for the failure of the movement to develop into an independent movement based on a united working class. increasingly we are seeing western imperialism and many gulf states stepping up their intervention in the war by backing the reactionary pro-big-business snc and fsa. intervention is also being increasingly supported by capitalist politicians. humanitarian relief is being cynically used as a cover for military intervention; this is echoed in the resolution. this cynicism was graphically shown by the rejection of amendments that called for increased eu assistance to refugees. imperialist intervention will not provide a better life for the people of syria; any intervention will be conducted solely for the interests of these powers. the solution to the conflict in syria lies in building a movement of working people that demands fundamental change, including democratic workers’ ownership and control of the economy, which could dramatically improve the living conditions of all in syria.
in writing. − i voted for the overall negotiating mandate but i was very disappointed that neither of the transparency amendments was carried. the amendment which asked for all documents to be made public was defeated, as was the amendment requesting the final mandate documents to be publically available. this is a retrograde step by parliament and will only serve to increase voter concerns about a number of issues. an eu/us trade deal has real potential but equally it poses many challenges. negotiations behind closed doors are of no help in this context.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i recognise that an effective eu-us trade and investment partnership has the capacity to stimulate jobs and growth. presently, the combined economies of the eu and the us account for 45 % of global gdp. it is hoped that the negotiations will strengthen both economies and enhance their alliance as leading players in the global economy. if agreed upon, it will stimulate economic activity in a time of prolonged stagnation; it is estimated gdp will increase by eur 119 billion annually in the eu. compromise is central to any negotiation process. but there are areas that we cannot compromise on – we must protect our businesses, workers and citizens who are the backbone of our society. worker and social rights are paramount and must not be used as a bargaining tool. we must also safeguard consumer rights and uphold standards across all areas related to the environment, food, health, data protection and cultural diversity. i believe that cultural and audiovisual services should be excluded from the negotiation mandate. finally, we must ensure that these negotiations are transparent and that information is relayed appropriately to parliament. when finalised, parliament will then have a final say on the agreement.
mr president, organised crime and corruption costs roughly eur 120 billion in europe each year. this report provides the basis for a comprehensive eu response. i would like to focus on two issues. firstly, while i welcome the call for member states to promote the use of seized criminal assets for social purposes, i believe we could go further. i think we should consider establishing a new eu fund from part of the confiscated assets of transnational organised crime. this fund would be open to pilot projects by citizens’ community groups across the eu, and should be specifically targeted at communities which have been devastated by drugs and organised crime. secondly, human trafficking is a multi-billion-euro business generating profits in the region of eur 25 billion annually. all member states – including my own – which have not yet done so should transpose without delay the trafficking directive, which was due to be transposed by april 2013. the commission should also prepare proposals criminalising the use of services of victims of trafficking, including for sexual and labour exploitation, and i hope that it will bring forward proposals for an eu-wide helpline for the victims of traffickers. i commend the rapporteur for this report. i believe that it is a good mid-term report and that there is still work to be done on the final report.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the plenary with this report on the health of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields. the aim of this report was to get out of the total impasse in which we have been since the 2004 directive, which, if it had been implemented, would have had quite negative consequences for every european citizen, in particular by depriving them of a number of advances. the aim of our work was to produce a text which would be valid throughout europe, but which would strike a perfect balance between the protection of the health of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields - our first concern - and the use of electromagnetic fields when they are beneficial. in fact, in a number of cases, their use is necessary for european citizens. i am thinking particularly of medical matters, but we shall come back to that. a way out of the impasse! this was not easy because we had different views between the different political groups, which were not necessarily the same at the beginning. but i would like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs from all the political groups because, thanks to their willingness to make progress, we have been able to have a very effective working method. we have been working for two years, first to get the necessary scientific information and then to share all the information constantly between all the political groups. we have encountered difficulties in this work. why would you do that? because the rotating presidencies, and in particular the four rotating presidencies of poland, denmark, cyprus and ireland, have not necessarily approached this work in the same way. we have always tried to adapt and have kept our course with an unwavering determination to accelerate our work. we particularly wanted this directive to be passed now, at this june part-session. what new protective measures have been put in place? firstly, this directive on the protection of the health of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields will affect all sectors of activity. that's a good point. secondly, we have made sure that all workers are informed and trained about the dangers of electromagnetic fields. thirdly, we have introduced medical surveillance of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields. we also helped to define the harmful effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields on workers, in particular by calling for greater consideration of risk groups and, in particular, pregnant women. we have also been able to introduce exceptions, particularly with regard to mri and radar. mri, because today, we know that a number of diseases can only be tracked by electromagnetic fields. it was therefore extremely important, mr president, that we knew how to make these exceptions. i am grateful to all my colleagues for having understood this position, which we will be supporting with practical guides which the commission will have to implement.
, member of the commission. − on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs morin-chartier for her dedication and excellent cooperation in drawing up this report and in her hard work to find compromises. this commitment allowed an agreement with council at first reading and today we have a common agreed text that seeks to guarantee a high level of protection of workers, but also to ensure flexible and proportionate implementation. it should be recalled that the reasons for the revision of the original directive stemmed from scientific research that showed that the existing threshold values could be set higher without causing health problems. furthermore, some industries, in particular the medical sector, indicated that conforming to these threshold values would unduly hamper the performance of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) in diagnostic and curative medicine, as well as in research. this, in turn, could have serious undesirable effects on public health. moreover, stakeholders have claimed that restrictions on mri could lead to increased use of diagnostic procedures using ionising radiation, which would in turn also have an unintended adverse effect on the protection of workers. the commission therefore undertook to examine the situation and, after a significant number of consultations with stakeholders, and also taking into consideration the latest scientific recommendations, adopted a proposal for amending the current directive. there have also been a number of technical challenges in the development of this directive, which now represents the ‘state of the art’ in terms of scientific knowledge. the commission notes with satisfaction that both co-legislators have agreed to a large majority of the principles and elements included in its original proposal, which have been retained in the final text. the directive maintains a good balance between the adequate protection of workers and the need to ensure activities such as mri can function. i would like to inform you that the commission is currently working to produce a non-binding guide to good practice which is required by article 13 of the amended directive. it will be available before the end of the transposition period for the directive.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to congratulate the rapporteur and her team for managing and guiding this important file through parliament and the trialogue. this is an important piece of legislation which replaces the 2004 directive because, if that directive had been implemented, it would have effectively meant that workers and patients would have been unable to use mri scanners, and that would, i suppose, have effectively banned their use. from the medical perspective, this would have been a disaster for patients because mri scans are essential diagnostic tools and they are used in the treatment of certain life-threatening diseases such as brain disorders, cancer, etc. so, following scientific data produced by icnirp, the commission presented a new proposal with new action levels and exposure limit values to protect the health and safety of workers. there are a number of derogations from this legislation but only in limited and strictly controlled situations where the circumstances are duly justified. i think this legislation is a significant improvement, in that it deals with the possible long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic radiation. it states that if there is conclusive evidence then the commission shall – and that is a very important word – the commission shall present a new proposal to deal with the long-term effects. the alliance for mri, which is a coalition of patient groups, scientists and the medical profession right across the eu, is fully in support of this legislation, and i am pleased to hear that the commission is producing a non-binding guide in regard to good practice. that is an essential part of this whole process.
mr president, my question is: how do you know if the policy you are pursuing is having the desired outcomes? you can make a guess; you can even make an educated guess, but you need to put in indicators and benchmarks. we already have economic and fiscal benchmarks, but social indicators remain the poor relation. yes, commissioner, you said that employment challenges would henceforth be measured on a scoreboard in the draft joint employment report. but will the results be given an equal rating with economic indicators from the european semester, for example? to me that is at the core of the question, because if we do not measure the performance of member states’ social systems then we will continue to pursue a one-sided policy that is not delivering the outcomes of poverty reduction, increased employment or social inclusion. colleagues have said we need to reduce the debt – and yes we do – but if we find that we are reducing debt levels only very slowly, and if that is accompanied by rising poverty, shocking unemployment levels and some citizens not having access to health care, then we are playing a zero-sum game. when we divorce economic policy from the social outcomes of that policy i believe we are on the wrong road.
a uachtaráin, molaim an coimisiún as ucht na tuarascála seo agus go háirithe an rapóirtéir, an feisire creutzmann, as ucht na leasuithe a chuir sé leis an tuarascáil. gan dabht, ós rud é go gcosnaíonn trádáil mhídleathach de gach saghas eur 250 billiún ar an aontas in aghaidh na bliana, caithimid rud éigin a dheanamh faoi, agus is chuige sin atáimid faoi láthair. i am very pleased with the proposals. i think that they are a practical way of dealing with the issue. given that many of these counterfeit goods are coming in from third countries, trying to stop them at the border makes sense. giving greater powers and tools to customs officers to deal with this issue in a legal way is obviously sensible. i just have one question for the commissioner: how much does he think we will be able to save, that we are losing at the moment as a result of counterfeited goods, through the application of these regulations?
mr president, as you know, our group had serious concerns with this proposal when it was brought to the house for first reading last year. we fought to exclude goods for personal use in travellers’ luggage from the scope of the regulation. there were also other serious issues, such as the need for clarity on what constitutes a small consignment liable for simplified destruction procedures. as we strongly felt that the safe passage of generic medicines in transit through the eu to the final destination was jeopardised, we voted against the proposal. however, the work carried out since with the council of ministers has yielded a satisfactory outcome. personal luggage items remain out of the regulation’s scope, and clear definitions of small consignments and the kinds of infringements liable for simplified procedures are introduced. progress was also made in terms of the time afforded to declarants to be heard prior to the destruction of goods. generic goods in transit are therefore not to be hindered unless there are substantial risks of illicit diversion to the eu markets. i look forward to the commission’s report and the recommendation on the correct implementation of this principle.
mr president, i would like to raise concerns about the future of local development in ireland, and in particular about the irish government’s plan to reform the delivery of local development actions arising from the alignment process. bhí baint agam leis an gcéad chlár phíolótach in éirinn nuair a bhí cúraimí na gaeltachta orm ag tús na nóchaidí. with no small thanks to local development committees, leader has since proven to be extremely successful in terms of providing community facilities in rural areas and creating jobs where otherwise there would be no alternative source of employment. moreover, local development companies have built up a cohort of highly trained, committed and professional staff. should this expertise be lost, it would have devastating consequences for local development in ireland. the bottom-up approach implemented by the local development companies has been identified by the eu as an ideal system. as such, from the eu perspective, moving away from this ideal system may have ramifications and cause reductions in rural development. tá mé ag impí ar an aire hogan go leanaimis lena chuid pleananna, ós rud é go bhfuil na pleananna... (ghearr an tuachtarán isteach ar an gcainteoir)
mr president, next week the g8 will descend on fermanagh. their list of crimes is a long one: barack obama, drone warrior in chief, prosecutor of heroic bradley manning; david cameron, heir of thatcher, destroyer of public services; angela merkel, imposer of austerity across europe; vladimir putin, dictatorial jailer of pussy riot and many others. they are collectively responsible for war, austerity, environmental destruction and poverty, which affect billions of people across the world. the local politicians who wish to roll out the red carpet cynically claim that this is an opportunity to showcase the so-called new northern ireland, but all they have to offer is a potemkin village with fake shopfronts hiding the real economic hardship. it is the neoliberal policies which the g8 peddles which leave these areas plagued by unemployment and emigration. massive police repression is planned, militarised zones, thousands of police officers and soldiers, water cannons and even drone spy planes approved by the policing board. people should reject this intimidation, protest in belfast and fermanagh. (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, tá an t-ábhar seo an-tábhachtach agus tá sé suimiúil an méid a dúirt an rapóirtéir: dhá rud atá tábhachtach ná, ar dtús, muinín a chothú i saoránaigh agus, freisin, eolas a thabhairt dóibh faoi cad atá á cheannach acu, agus mar sin de. i would like to make a few points here. in terms of countries like my own and other countries, one of the key ways out of the economic recession is to encourage consumer spending. people are afraid to spend at the minute. perhaps some do not have the money, but those who have do not have the confidence to do so. some of the points made by the rapporteur about encouraging confidence are very important, particularly in relation to online spending. sixty percent of people are afraid to purchase goods online because they do not have enough confidence in the system and that their data will be respected. we need to work on that. the data protection regulation which is now going through the system will have an important role to play in that regard in encouraging people and giving them the confidence and the knowledge that their data will be respected, and putting them in charge of it it is very important, as the rapporteur has said, that this is a lifelong process. we should start at a youth level and, just as we have lifelong learning, we also need lifelong consumer protection and advice.
mr president, i commend the work carried out by my colleague, mr garcés ramón, in reaction to the commissioner’s draft european consumer agenda. in a context in which increasing poverty and difficult social and economic conditions are leading to widely different levels of access to basic goods and services, we must keep in mind more than ever that consumer rights vis-à-vis the market are not sufficient to ensure that our citizens’ essential needs are being met. if we do not, consumer rights for those most affected by inequality will be meaningless, so we must prioritise the enforcement of financial regulations to step up vigilance of banking and other lenders’ practices, as these have a really big impact on the lives of consumers facing financial difficulty and, in particular, mortgage distress. the banking sector will simply save that not-unprecedented cost by taxpayers. they had been enjoying emergency ecb assistance for years and must not be allowed to further punish customers facing hardship due to circumstances beyond their control.
mr president, we currently face many challenges in making the right to decent housing a reality, as the current crisis has put public authorities under severe financial pressure while they face mounting social emergencies, including housing deprivation. in the irish context, housing itself was at the epicentre of the crisis on account of the worst property bust ever. yet this tremendously costly market failure, affecting both mortgage borrowers and eventually all taxpayers, was already evident at the height of the boom, as homelessness was increasing at the same time. many had to pay astronomical rents for unsuitable housing; waiting lists for council houses grew longer, and millions were spent in emergency accommodation of a temporary nature. the private housing market cannot respond effectively to the needs of poor households or those at risk of poverty. we must think of the many positive returns which proper investment in the social housing sector will bring.
a uachtaráin, is dóigh liom gur ceart go bhfuilimid ag plé an ábhair seo arís: comhionannas do mhná. is minic a bhíonn an t-ábhar seo á phlé againn sa pharlaimint agus, cé go bhfuil comhionannas idir fir agus mná ann go hoifigiúil, níl sé ann ó thaobh cleachtais de. anocht, táimid ag caint faoi ghluaiseacht do mhná trasna na heorpa ó thaobh oideachais agus gairm bheatha de. this is a very important point, because there is no point in having equality which is officially and legally enshrined but which is not actually a reality; all the evidence points to this being the case. in terms of education in particular, there is a need to help and encourage women to become qualified in what are typically seen as male-orientated jobs: science, engineering, maths, etc. we have to work hard at this and we will keep going until we obtain it.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur ms ronzulli and mr sógor for their comprehensive proposal dealing with two topics that the commission considers to be key issues: mobility and gender policy. gender issues are at the core of the europe 2020 strategy. the commission shares the view that fostering the educational and occupational mobility of women can support the attainment of the europe 2020 headline target, i.e. to raise the employment rate for women and men to 75 %. enhancing the labour market participation of women is vital if we are to reach this target. in the framework of the european semester, the commission is closely monitoring the progress of member states with regard to enhancing female labour market participation. the country-specific recommendations submitted by the commission on 29 may reflect this priority. moreover, improving jobseekers’ mobility between member states can be part of the solution to the current levels of unemployment, which are unacceptably high. with a view to enhancing mobility, in november 2012 the commission adopted a decision to modernise and improve the eures service. the eures reform aims to make it easier for jobseekers to contact employers who are looking for particular skills, to focus on sectors and occupations with skills shortages, and to support targeted mobility schemes for young people. next year, in the context of the 2014 european year for reconciling work and family life, we shall have many opportunities to discuss and to consider initiatives supporting the participation of woman in the labour market. please let me comment on some particular aspects of the report as regards the regulatory framework on the gender pay gap. in line with treaty provisions, the directive of 2006 provides that for the same work, or for work to which equal value is attributed, direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of sex with regard to all aspects and conditions of remuneration shall be eliminated. the commission is continuously monitoring the correct application and enforcement of the equal pay provisions of this directive. the commission is currently preparing a report on application of the directive, focusing on assessing the implementation of equal pay provisions in practice. in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for growth, and in order to ensure the prosperity of europe in the future, we have no choice but to use the potential of highly qualified women in full. to that end, on 14 november 2012 the commission adopted a proposal for a directive on improving the gender balance among non-executive directors in companies listed on stock exchanges. when adopted, this ambitious and balanced directive will help to break the glass ceiling that limits highly qualified women’s access to the highest positions in listed companies. finally, on erasmus. since 1987, erasmus alone has enabled 3 million students to be mobile within the eu. women’s participation in erasmus is very high (around 60% of all mobile erasmus students). for the 2014-2020 period, the commission has proposed a significant increase in the budget for the new education, training and youth programme ‘erasmus for all’. the new programme will continue to support a high number of women students and education professionals.
in writing. – often women are the ones who have to make the sacrifice of taking a career or educational break in order to follow their partner abroad to work. furthermore, given the economic crisis, the female unemployment rate has risen and wage differences between men and women have increased. professional and occupational mobility should therefore be made easier for women and the conditions more favourable to enable women to want to take up these opportunities. women can make a positive contribution to the economy and it is important that jobs are accessible to all and this means no inequality in the labour market. as the report highlights, there are several obstacles still facing women and women should be represented more in senior positions and on boards and there should be a reduction of ‘brain-waste’ amongst women due to under-use of qualifications possessed by women moving abroad. an additional point which i welcome and which is stressed in the report is that professional mobility should not disadvantage women with regard to social rights. the continuation and transfer of rights under the social security system between countries should be guaranteed. i wholeheartedly agree with the contents of the report and voted in favour.
rapporteur. − mr president, as europe’s road infrastructure is ageing and needs constant investment, my report poses some important questions. first of all, how can we continue to fund infrastructure fairly and cost-efficiently while not impeding the four freedoms of the internal market into the future? secondly, how can we ensure that the long-established principle of ‘the polluter pays’ is developed? thirdly, what is the best way to implement a fully-functioning european electronic toll service system in europe? in drafting this report i was very conscious that the results of the eets on the whole have been disappointing, something which the european commission itself has pointed out. indeed, it may be necessary for the commission to go back to the drawing board and consider drafting stronger legislation – possibly in the form of a regulation – to ensure the creation of an effective eets. what are the key issues? first of all, the willingness of the stakeholders to adapt to eets. as regards the european electronic toll service, it seems that, following discussions with toll chargers and service providers, the key issue seems to be a willingness of the stakeholders to come together to put in place systems in order to suit the road user. in other words, the single biggest challenge to implementing a functioning eets for the end user seems to be political and not technological, and i am firmly of the opinion that the possibility of having one single onboard unit to use on all roads throughout the eu which are charged for by tolls is possible; but at the moment there is no way to force stakeholders to come together to make this happen. this has to change, and i hope that the commission is listening and is of the same view. another possibility is to introduce barrier-free tolling, and i regret the fact that the commission communication does not explore this possibility in sufficient detail. i hope – and recommend – that further steps are taken to develop and encourage its use throughout the european union. i think, from the point of view of what the issues are, that fair and proportionate charging is an issue. member states which favour a time-based system should be allowed to continue to operate such a system. however, the prices charged should, as the commission points out, be proportionate. member states must be encouraged to provide for daily, weekly, monthly and yearly passes to motorists. the charge – excluding a small administrative charge – should ideally be exactly proportionate to the cost of an annual vignette. unfortunately, however, the situation at present in some member states is that the weekly vignette can cost up to four times the proportionate cost of the monthly or yearly vignette. as regards the issue of taxation: this is a contentious issue, and i believe that member states should continue to be free to set and collect the charges for the use of their own infrastructure within their own jurisdiction. i agree with the commission’s views as regards making the payment for such a vignette as simple and as easy as possible for drivers, and this reiterates my view and that of the member states that the focus must be on selling a fairly-priced vignette rather than trying to fine motors as much as possible. finally, there are huge environmental advantages to this. if we have a barrier-free europe, we will have, for example, free access and movement, less pollution, greater trade and greater access to the market. overall i think this is something that the commission, parliament and the council should all push collectively in order to make happen. if it does not, this report that i have will become a dream, and what i want to do is to make sure that it becomes a reality.
rapporteur. − mr president, this proposal is presented against the backdrop of rising poverty and deprivation across europe as a result of the crisis. there are almost 120 million europeans – a quarter of our total population – at risk of poverty or social exclusion. over 40 million suffer from extreme material deprivation, this means that they are unable to put a basic meal on the table every other day. almost six million children do not have two pairs of shoes. over four million people are homeless. since 1987, the food distribution programme has been an important support for organisations in direct contact with people on the margins of society. eighteen million people across 19 member states are benefiting from this programme this year. ending the food distribution programme next december without a replacement european programme would pose a direct threat to food aid programmes in many member states. the proposal that we are considering today envisages european support for national schemes that address poverty, which exist in all member states, but it would go beyond the food distribution programme by introducing the possibility for the distribution of basic material assistance. this could include, for example, starter packs for homeless people moving into a new home or clothing and footwear for children. it would also introduce support for accompanying measures aimed at the social reintegration of end recipients that many of the organisations involved in food aid programmes already provide. i would like to thank and pay tribute to the shadow rapporteurs, to my colleagues in the employment and social affairs committee as well as to the rapporteurs for opinions from the other committees. over 500 amendments were initially tabled, and we managed to reach consensus on the vast majority of these, on issues such as the broader scope, developing the partnership principle, the definitions, mutual learning, co-financing, reducing the administrative burden on ngos and developing synergies with other eu policies in the area of food waste and healthy diet. much of the discussion then in the employment and social affairs committee centred around two issues. firstly, as rapporteur i recommended that the proposed budget for fead be at least the equivalent amount of the existing food programme, that is eur 3.5 billion instead of the eur 2.5 billion which was proposed by the commission. there was a clear majority in favour of this proposal in the committee. there is a technical amendment tabled in this regard for plenary which reflects the vote of the social affairs committee, and i commend this amendment. secondly, one of the central issues to emerge in the debate concerns the participation of member states, specifically whether the funding should be ringfenced for the most deprived, as originally proposed by the commission, or alternatively if it should be reallocated to other eu programmes not necessarily targeting the most deprived. the employment and social affairs committee decided overwhelmingly to endorse the commission’s original proposal on this point. there are amendments from two political groups – alde and the greens – proposing that, if member states decide not to take part in the fund, they may use the funding for other eu programmes. i would have strong concerns that these amendments, if approved, would set a dangerous precedent for the reallocation of funding between programmes. they could also delay the entry into force of the new fund, which is planned for january 2014. january is, by the way, one of the coldest and most difficult months of the year for the target group. the amendments could also delay the programming of the european social fund and erdf from next year. i therefore cannot accept the amendments tabled by alde and the greens. it should be noted that the responsibility and the obligation to combat poverty and social exclusion will remain with the member states. fead is intended to complement national policies, not replace them. it is by no means an alternative or a substitute. but it would enable the european union to continue to contribute towards alleviating some of the worst forms of poverty and social exclusion. fead would, in fact, be the only eu instrument that specifically targets people who are on the margins of society, including people who are often well beyond the reach of the esf. in short, the fund for the european aid to the most deprived is a sign of european solidarity with those hardest hit by the crisis. i urge members to endorse the report as adopted by the employment and social affairs committee so that we have a strong mandate to negotiate with the council and commission and see fead commence operations, as planned, from early next year.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her good and meticulous work on this very important dossier. for those who will benefit from this fund, it is literally a lifeline, because it will ensure that those people who need it most have access to reasonable nutrition and to some of the basic necessities of life. but the fund is more than that. it is also a message, a signal from this parliament and from the eu institutions that solidarity is much more than just a word. it is something tangible and real, and this programme is part of that reality. it is my understanding that there is a blocking minority in the council, and i have read the reasoned opinions put forward by some of these member states, where they speak of subsidiarity. but what about subsidiarity when it comes to overseeing one another’s budgets? what about subsidiarity when it comes to deciding how taxpayers’ money in member states is spent or what we do with depositors in cypriot banks? subsidiarity is an argument that is used against the provision of food to needy eu citizens, but it is totally ignored when other decisions are being taken. in my opinion this is neither logical nor reasonable. i believe many eu citizens would be appalled to know that some member states are blocking the adoption of this dossier and the setting up of this fund. my group, alde, is fully in support of this fund. however, there is a debate as to whether it should be mandatory or voluntary. my group is supporting a voluntary option, in other words that member states can access this fund, but – crucially – is asking for it to be ring-fenced. this would mean that those member states which want to use their own systems and not the eu programmes can continue to do so, while other member states, who want to use this fund, can use their own allocation and will have the legal base to use some of their cohesion funding for this hugely important fund. in our view, this will help guarantee that all of the fund will be used, because, if a member state is allocated a certain amount under the mandatory option and does not use it, then that portion of the fund goes back to the eu budget. we already know that fewer than 20 – i think it is 17 – of the member states operate the current fund. we cannot force member states to use the fund but, i believe that giving flexibility under the ring-fencing of the fund is the best option to ensure that all of the fund will be used for food for the most deprived.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the members very much for the debate and for the interest and support they have shown for the fead programme, which is a very important programme that will show solidarity with people experiencing poverty across the eu. i particularly welcome the fact that there is strong support for the budget of eur 3.5 billion, and i believe that the parliament will be able to send a strong message back to the council. in relation to the debate on the voluntary-versus-mandatory issue, i just want to clarify a few issues. i feel that the words ‘obligatory’ and ‘mandatory’ may be somewhat misleading. i think that the important aspect is that the money that is set aside for the most deprived actually goes to the most deprived. the proposal that we adopted in committee last month is the way that we can actually guarantee that. there are a number of issues in relation to the amendments proposed by alde and the greens, and i just want to highlight some of those issues. first of all, there is a complex notification system. that could actually delay the programme at a very critical time. we have talked about january and the winter months being very critical for people who are living on the margins, the homeless and those suffering food poverty, and the notification system that is outlined and provided for in those amendments could cause that. secondly – and this is very important – there is no actual redistribution of money provided for in these amendments. member states who want to increase their fead allocation would have to do so at the expense of their esf or erdf allocations. thirdly, i would point out that organisations in countries that do not participate in the fead programme at the moment very much regret that their governments’ policies mean that they cannot participate. the proposal, as adopted by the committee on employment and social affairs, would allow for the opportunity – should there be a change in government policy or should there be a change in government – of member states being able to participate. as the commissioner has said, this fund is for people, not for governments. this fund is for people who are suffering extreme poverty. members, i hope that you will give us a strong mandate to start the negotiations with the council for this fund which will help us achieve the 2020 target of reducing the number of those living in poverty by 20 million.
in writing. – a uachtaráin, tá cur amach ar leith againne atá inár mbaill den choiste talmhaíochta ar an gclár seo. cé nach faoi chúrsaí talmhaíochta a thiteann sé a thuilleadh, is clár ríthábhachtach fós é agus ní mór go mbeadh sé ar bharr an chláir oibre eorpaigh inniu agus amach anseo. tá 43 mhilliún duine faoi bhaol na bochtaineachta bia san ae sa lá inniu ann. tá 13 mhilliún duine ag brath ar an scéim seo le bia a fháil, agus tugann an clár cúnamh d’eagraíochtaí i 19 mballstát bia a chur ar fáil agus a scaipeadh trí shlabhraí dáileacháin de 240 banc agus carthanacht bia. ba thosaíochtaí de straitéis 2020 an ae an bhochtaineacht agus an t-eisiamh sóisialta a chomhrac, ionas go dtiocfadh laghdú 20 milliún ar na daoine a bhí i mbaol ón mbochtaineacht nó ón eisiamh sóisialta. tá an scéim seo tábhachtach ó thaobh an sprioc sin a bhaint amach, agus cuireann sé cúnamh laethúil ar fáil dóibh siúd is mó a bhíonn thíos leis.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo, cosúil le mo ghrúpa, agus molaim an t-údar garcés ramón agus an leas-údar sandra kalniete as ucht na dea-oibre a rinne siad. is ábhar tábhachtach é seo. when we consider that 56% of european union gdp comes from consumer spending, this is obviously a very important area to grow, and particularly the area of online shopping. i have seen figures saying that 60% of people are afraid to engage in online shopping because they have doubts about security and safety and do not have enough information. in addition, 75% of smes in europe are not trading online. so we need to bring the two together and – as the previous speaker, mr kamall, was saying – good, solid information is key. if we make information available and guarantee safety, consumers will be in a position to make informed choices. that is the way to go.
i scríbhinn. − ní foláir a chinntiú go gcuirfear i bhfeidhm go haonfhoirmeach an treoir maidir le cleachtais tráchtála éagóracha agus an treoir maidir le fógraíocht mhíthreorach agus chomparáideach. mar sin, tacaím go hiomlán le moltaí na tuarascála i dtaca le srian a chur ar chleachtais trachtála éagóracha, mar shampla eolas bréagach a thabhairt do thomhaltóirí nó nósanna ionsaitheacha fógraíochta a úsáid chun dul i bhfeidhm ar na roghanna a dhéanann tomhaltóirí. ní mór tuilleadh a dhéanamh ó thaobh an fheidhmithe de, áfach, chun tomhaltóirí agus fiontair a chosaint go náisiúnta agus ar fud an aontais. chun a chinntiú go mbeidh na treoracha sin éifeachtach, ní foláir don choimisiún agus do na ballstáit tuilleadh comhoibrithe a dhéanamh d’fhonn eolas soiléir cuimsitheach a chur ar fáil agus d’fhonn breis cosanta a chur i bhfeidhm do thomhaltóirí agus pobal an aontais. anuas ar sin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na moltaí i dtaca le réiteach malartach aighneas agus réiteach aighneas ar líne. ós rud é go bhfuil thart ar 43% de thomhaltóirí atá idir 16 agus 74 bliana d’aois ag siopadóireacht ar líne, ní mór tuilleadh a dhéanamh chun a chinntiú go gcuirtear i bhfeidhm i gceart agus ar fud na mballstát an dhá mheicníocht sin.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm arís tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus tá moladh mór ag dul don fheisire creutzmann as ucht a chuid oibre. nuair a smaoinímid go gcosnaíonn an t-ábhar mídhleathach seo eur 250 billiún in aghaidh na bliana, is uafásach an méid airgid é. dá bhrí sin, táimid ag cailliúint a lán airgid ach, freisin, tá a lán de na hearraí seo atá mídhleathach ag déanamh damáiste don tsláinte agus mar sin de, mar tá siad míshláintiúil. dá bhrí sin, is ceart agus is cóir dúinn rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi; tá sé sin á dhéanamh againn anois. gan dabht ar bith, tá gá le rialacha soiléire agus, mar a dúirt creutzmann, de bharr na moltaí seo, beidh údaráis ag an teorainn. beidh níos mó cinnteachta acu agus beidh siad in ann rud éigin a dhéanamh níos tapúla agus níos éifeachtaí. dá bhrí sin, ba chóir go gcabhródh sé sin leis an bhfadhb uafásach seo a réiteach amach anseo.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin is 1-2% den mhargadh bia eorpach iad earraí bia a bheartaítear d’úsáidí cothúla áirithe (parnuts), caitear thart ar eur 24 billiún sa bhliain ar na hearraí sin agus tá sin an-thábhachtach ó thaobh na hearnála bia de. fearaim fáilte roimh an gcreat nua, a baineadh amach i ndiaidh na míonna de chainteanna, a bhaineann le bearta a chur i bhfeidhm i gcás catagóirí sainaitheanta bia a bhíonn riachtanach do ghrúpaí speisialta áirithe, i.e. bia do naíonáin agus do leanaí óga, bia d’othair faoi chúram leighis agus aiste malartach bia iomlán i gcás smachtú meáchain. tacaím leis an gcinneadh a ghlacadh gan bia atá ceaptha lena chaitheamh ag lucht spóirt a bheith san áireamh, toisc gnéitheacht an chineáil chothaithe sin. cuireann na cinntí seo brú ar tháirgeoirí beaga bia agus, mar sin, fearaim fáilte roimh thogra an choimisiúin i dtaca le treoracha teicniúla a chur ar fáil chun cabhrú le comhlachtaí bia, fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide go háirithe, cloí leis na bearta. ní mór, áfach, nach gcuirfí leis an rómhaorlathas ná leis an ualach riaracháin a bhíonn i gceist do tháirgeoirí beaga bia agus gríosaím an coimisiún dlúthchomhoibriú a dhéanamh le páirtithe leasmhara na hearnála chun cabhrú leis na fiontair bheaga sin.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the new eu rules seeking to better protect workers from harmful electromagnetic radiation in the workplace. these new rules will be of particular benefit to nurses and doctors giving patients magnetic resonance imaging scans (mri), people working with radar, welders and workers repairing power lines. they will require employers to give exposed workers and their representatives necessary information and training, particularly relating to the outcome of risk assessment of possible harmful electromagnetic radiation, the measures taken by the employer, safe working practices, the detection of adverse effects and the circumstances in which workers are entitled to health checks. the new rules also foresee specific provisions to protect pregnant women and workers who wear an active implantable medical device (aimd) such as pacemakers. i welcome in particular the guarantee that, if long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields are discovered, the commission will consider appropriate european legislation. i would now urge all member states to transpose this new directive before the agreed deadline of 1 july 2016.
in writing. − the revised directive is an important improvement on its 2004 predecessor, which would have prevented workers from using mri scanners on health and safety grounds, thus effectively banning their use. from a medical perspective this would have been a disaster for many patients as mri scans are essential diagnostic tools and mri imaging technology is also used in the treatment of life-threatening diseases such as cancer, heart disease and brain disorder. following new scientific evidence in 2010, the commission presented a revised proposal – the data was provided by the icnirp (international commission on non-ionizing radiation protection). instead, a common-sense, evidence-based approach has been adopted which respects the safety of workers while also ensuring continued use of these important tools for patients. certain derogations have been allowed in the medical and military sectors but only in duly justified circumstances. a significant improvement in the new legislation is that it deals with possible long-term effects of exposure to radiation by ensuring that as soon as conclusive scientific evidence emerges, the commission shall present a new proposal on the long-term effects. this will allow new research and development of mri technology, which is extremely important for the future of medicine.
i scríbhinn. − thacaigh mé leis an rapóirtéir ar leasuithe uimh. 7 agus uimh. 17. tá sé ríthábhachtach go gcuirfí pleananna fadtéarmacha i bhfeidhm chun go neartófaí an stoc troisc. cinnteoidh plean fadtéarmach don trosc go mbeidh leibhéal inmharthana ann amach anseo. tréaslaím leis an rapóirtéir diane dodds as an sár-obair a rinne sí ar an tsaincheist seo.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo, cosúil le comhghleacaithe san epp go léir. gan dabht ar bith, is uafásach an fhadhb í seo agus tá sé ag déanamh praiseach d’eacnamaíocht na heorpa. dá bhféadfaimis fiú amháin beagánín beag a dhéanamh chun é a réiteach, chabhródh sé go mór. i am pleased that we are making progress now in dealing with all of this illegal activity which is destroying us. the online environment has actually made it easier for criminals to operate in gambling. we in the sporting section of the committee on culture and education are bringing forward proposals to deal with online gambling from a sports point of view. that will definitely help. money laundering has also been mentioned; diana dodds mentioned fuel laundering. all of those things need to be tackled in a coherent manner, as do tax havens, both within and outside the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is an important step for strengthening the eu’s fight against criminal activity. the report is an evaluation of the prevalence of, and responses to, organised crime, corruption and money-laundering by the european union and member states. it outlines a multilateral legislative framework for tackling such criminal activity. at eu level, it outlines proposals to develop a judicial and investigative system; notably establishing an eu public prosecutor, harmonising criminal law on money-laundering and abolishing banking secrecy. this is especially important for tackling the prevalence of cross-border offences. moreover, it provides for tougher measures for perpetrators, whereby companies engaged in corruption crimes will become blacklisted and subjected to a five-year ban on any commercial activity. what is more, any individual convicted of a crime will be prohibited from standing for any public office. in addition, the report outlines legislation to protect witnesses and victims of trafficking. these are all important initiatives but we must recognise this is an on-going process that must be monitored, as criminal activity is a persistent phenomenon.
madam president, housing is not just a basic need, but a fundamental right. there are four million homeless, as we heard when discussing the fead report earlier on this morning. bad housing creates major problems: it creates problems in people’s health and wellbeing, and it can also create many social problems. this report is timely, and i very much welcome it. it acknowledges that, while housing is a national competence, action at eu level is not just desirable, but necessary. i particularly want to support the calls for housing to be seen as a strategic social investment, rather than just expenditure. in that respect, i would particularly welcome funding from the regional development fund to support areas that are badly in need of regeneration. my own constituency of dublin has seen what happens when housing is left to private landlords who offer substandard housing, or when regeneration projects are left to exploitative developers who walked off and left people dejected and blighted when the property bubble burst. regeneration has still not taken place. i commend the report.
in writing. − i supported the general thrust of this report. yes, i know that housing is a member state competence, but social housing is very much part of social inclusion and will contribute to achieving some of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. while i do agree that the right to housing should be recognised in eu primary law, some of the suggestions we made to member states in this report should be acted upon. i believe that member states must be proactive when it comes to evictions following seizures of homes by banks and encourage the use of ‘long lease’ arrangements to facilitate social housing, and that priority must be given to vulnerable persons in allocating social housing. i also supported the introduction of socio-economic indicators into the european semester. if we do not measure the social impact of our economic policy, then we are blindly implementing policy that is not evidence-based – this is a bad practice which will lead to bad policy choices.
in writing. − this report deals with issues of poverty, tax and social inclusion. however, instead of focusing on these crucial issues, the report is littered with green policy issues, which actually throw the report off balance. while i supported much of this report, i abstained on the overall vote as i believe that this report missed an important opportunity to really discuss eu social housing. social inequalities are growing, the unemployment rate is soaring, 120 million europeans are poor or at risk of poverty – this report had sufficient matter to discuss without digressing into envi matters. finally it is important to recognise the added value of structural fund monies and european investment bank loans in stimulating social housing investment. these funds facilitate the development of further and vocational training and the creation of thousands of local jobs. it must be ensured, in the next mff, that sufficient funding from these sources is available, that it can be readily accessed and that unspent monies can be more easily reallocated to social housing.
madam president, i voted to support this excellent report, which is concise and, importantly, unlike the previous report on social housing, does not wander into the complex area of subsidiarity. we need to work to make the labour market more open and accessible. this report stresses the importance of mobility of women as a means to increase the efficiency of the single market and, in view of the recent target of the european 2020 strategy, to integrate 75 % of employable women into the workforce by 2020. occupational mobility is a very practical requirement which highlights the need to adapt education and training systems more effectively to the new labour market requirements, to strengthen lifelong learning and the acquisition of skills, and to improve the system of recognition of professional qualifications. there is still too little access to information on cross-border mobility and in too many cases it is poor quality information that puts people off. i think that both the committees which cooperated and basically put in their collective input – in other words the committee on women’s rights and gender equality and the committee on employment and social affairs – are to be congratulated on this excellent report.
in writing. − fostering the educational and occupational mobility of women can contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 target of raising the employment rate of 75% for women and women. research indicates that strong gender stereotyping in education adds to gender segregation in the labour market, in relation to both sectors and occupations, and must be tackled. the commission and the member states should monitor and report on how eu funds focusing on education and training, occupational and educational mobility and on increasing labour market participation are being taken up by women and men and better address the imbalances that have arisen. we should consider establishing a european counselling service network to help local communities deal with this issue by providing information, know-how and guidance regarding the integration of women. we need to attract women from an early stage into key sectors with a high job potential across europe, in particular the green economy, the health and social care sector and the digital economy, including by better supporting mobile workers with families, addressing access to education and childcare, social security and community services.
in writing. − mobility of workers and of women in the eu is just one piece in the jigsaw that can contribute to access to employment and to maximise the skills of individuals and help to deal with skills shortages. one of the issues that arises for some women who are mobile is that they move to access jobs in the care sector or in the domestic sector. many of these jobs can be part-time and precarious, and we need to ensure proper working conditions for these women. often, these women are marginalised and need the structures of collective bargaining and social dialogue. the gender pay gap still remains and on friday 14 june, the eu institute for gender equality will publish a document indicating how the pay gap contributes to the feminisation of poverty both during working life and in retirement. furthermore, i hope that the european commission will on friday 14 june announce that 2014 will be the european year for reconciling work and family life, an issue that is of real importance to women and men alike.
a uachtaráin, ar an gcéad dul síos ba mhaith liom mo fhíor-bhuíochas a ghabháil leis na 508 feisirí a thug tacaíocht agus tromlach mór don tuarascáil seo inniu sa vótáil. ba chóir go mbeadh clibeanna ríomhdhola inoibritheach go hiomlán ach, faoi láthair, san eoraip níl sé seo ag tarlú. tá an tuarascáil seo ag iarraidh an fhadhb seo a réiteach. ciallaíonn sé sin gur féidir leat na clibeanna seo a úsáid ag gach plás ríomhdhola eile ar ghréasán bhóithre na heorpa. mar shampla i mbaile átha cliath, déanann brathadóirí agus ceamaraí lastuas taifeadadh ar do chlib leictreonach nó ar uimhirphláta d’fheithicil go huathoibríoch, ionas gur féidir leat dul trí phointe an dola ag an ngnáthluas taistil, ag seachaint scuainí agus ag laghdú struis agus, chomh maith leis sin, ag laghdú frustrachais. tá súil agam go bhfuil an coimisiún eorpach ag éisteacht, agus go mbeidh réiteach dlí againn chomh luath agus is féidir.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo toisc go bhfuil teipthe go dtí seo ar sheirbhís eorpach na ndolaí leictreonacha (eets) agus tá gá anois le togra nua. níl seirbhís nó córas eile ar bith curtha chun cinn ag an gcoimisiún agus má tá sé i gceist leanúint leis an gcóras eets a úsáid chun táillí a ghearradh ar thiománaithe bóthair ní mór go ndéanfaí breis iarrachta ó thaobh cúrsaí cumarsáide leis na ballstáit de, mar is beag suim atá léirithe go dtí seo ag na ballstáit i dtaca leis an gcóras sin a chur i bhfeidhm. i mo thuairimse, ní mór aghaidh a thabhairt ar ghnéithe áirithe an chórais mar atá, mar shampla éagothromaíocht na ngreamán seachtainiúil i gcomparáid leis an bpraghas a ghearrtar ar phas bliantúil; a chinntiú go bhfuiltear ag cloí le dlíthe um príobháideachas agus cosaint sonraí; áisiúlacht na gcóras íocaíochta ar líne; agus an prionsabal ‘íoc mar a thruaillítear’. tréaslaím leis an rapóirtéir jim higgins as an sár-obair a rinne sé ar an tuarascáil.
in writing. − i support this report because the eets has not been a success and we need to put practical and workable solutions in place. however, i would like to draw your attention to a very important concern for transport operators and transport companies in some member states, in particular more peripheral ones like ireland. increased charges will put irish road hauliers at a severe disadvantage. the uk is introducing a road user charge and while uk and northern ireland hauliers will receive some type of rebate, irish hauliers will not. this will significantly increase costs, and then further charges on the eu mainland will exacerbate the problem even further. in many ways, these changes will be a barrier to free trade and will, in a way, be like the introduction of tariffs – the very thing that the creation of the single market is meant to avoid. for ireland’s agricultural exports this will be a severe blow as the weight and volume of those exports is significant, therefore increasing the cost of transport substantially. this matter cannot be ignored any longer and we need to find solutions that do not damage export-driven economies such as ireland.
mr president, first may i thank the commissioner for her statement that she wants to have parliament involved more in this area; that is important. i would also compliment her and other speakers on the role the irish presidency has played in moving this dossier forward and also the one on asylum. that is something i greatly appreciate because our minister, who has had to leave, told me at the beginning of the presidency that she was going to be in attendance at every single part-session that she was invited to attend. i just want to put it on the record that once or twice it has been mentioned here that the council was not present. the reason they were not present was that they were not invited. minister creighton has been present on all occasions. now, regarding this measure, i think a lot of practical, sensible measures are here which i would support. schengen is a great part of the european union. we talk about the freedom of movement, of goods, capital, etc., but freedom does not mean uncontrolled. there have to be controls in everything and particularly at times of exceptional circumstances, the measures proposed here, measures of last resort, for limited periods, do make sense and i think unilateral action for a maximum of five days is a sensible approach as well. so by and large, i think that this is a step in the right direction which will give a lot of consolation to citizens and also to member states, and so i welcome these measures.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm seans a bheith agam cúpla focal a rá ar an ábhar tábhachtach seo agus, go háirithe, molaim an coimisinéir agus an rapóirtéir as ucht na dea-oibre. one of the things i have been pleased to hear here in parliament in particular over the last couple of years is a new focus on competitiveness generally in europe. there is no doubt about it, we have lost competitiveness. even in my own country it was unbelievable in many respects how over a short period of time we became totally uncompetitive. but thankfully, as a result of the measures being taken in the bailout programme etc. we are regaining that. competition is vital. it is the lifeblood of trade as they say, and it is good for businesses themselves because it helps them to focus on their core activity and to reach the highest possible standards. it is also very good for citizens because there is more choice and keener pricing. i welcome in particular the efforts made to make the banks more sustainable and more vibrant, and indeed more accountable, which is absolutely vital because without working banks you cannot have a working economy. that is very important. i would also agree completely regarding the energy market in europe; we have failed to address that properly. we need to focus on it, because we will never become properly competitive if we do not have a good, competitive energy market.
i would like to focus on the overfishing of mackerel and herring in the north-east atlantic. we have discussed it here many times but we have made no progress. my understanding is that, as of now, six local companies in the faroe islands have applied for foreign factory and processing vessels to operate in those waters. i note the recent announcement by the commission to adopt a trade sanction measure against the faroe islands in respect of atlanto-scandian herring, but what about mackerel? how can we distinguish between atlanto-scandian herring being overfished and mackerel? the continued failure by you, commissioner, to tackle the overfishing of mackerel by both iceland and the faroe islands is inexplicable and astonishing. you have totally ignored the express wishes of this parliament. we did not give you one yellow card, we gave you a pack of cards and you are not using those cards and you are not taking the necessary steps. tell us this evening when you are meeting with the icelandic minister to try and resolve this issue, as you indicated to us during the trialogue negotiations. if the present trend continues there will be no necessity for further debate in this house because there will be no fish to catch!
a uachtaráin, ar dtús fáiltím roimh an leasú ar an gcomhbheartas iascaigh atá beagnach curtha i gcrích. molaim an coimisinéir damanaki, uachtaránacht na éireann agus, go háirithe, an taire simon coveney agus na rapóirtéirí éagsula, go háirithe mo comhghleacaí ó alde, ó éirinn, pat the cope gallagher. maidir leis an bhfadhb seo, is léir gur fadhb uafásach í agus caithfear déileáil léi go práinneach agus go cróga agus, murach sin, ní dhéanfaimis aon dul chun cinn. what is needed here quite simply is action. we know the problem, as it has been outlined by several speakers, but we need political action, political will and above all public resources to deal with it. loads more yellow cards – i am a sporting person: you get one yellow card, you get a second yellow card and you are sent off. we need to give second yellow cards to non-compliant third countries and also deal equally harshly with those who do not comply within our own union.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom a rá leis an gcoimisinéir go bhfuil súil agam go n-éireoidh leis agus le huachtaránacht na héireann comhréiteach a fháil ar an socrú maidir leis an gcomhbheartas talmhaíochta roimh dheireadh thréimhse uachtaránacht na héireann i gceann cúpla seachtain. má éiríonn linn é sin a dhéanamh, beidh dul chun cinn déanta againn. chomh maith leis sin, tá sé an-tábhachtach go n-éireoidh linn an mff a thabhairt thar an líne chomh luath agus is féidir mar tá gach rud ag brath air sin. maidir leis an bhfadhb atá againn anocht, is fadhb chasta í, ní fadhb mhaith í, ní dea-scéal é d’aon duine ach, mar a dúirt sé, tá na figiúirí atá ag an gcoimisiún níos luaithe ná an t-airgead atá againn. dá bhrí sin, tá gá le leasú. níl daoine sásta leis ach caithimid a bheith réadúil agus, le bheith réadúil, caithimid athrú a dhéanamh. aontaím, leis, gur cheart eisceacht a dhéanamh de na feirmeoirí beaga mar tá a lán díobh siúd ag brath ar na híocaíochtaí seo chun dul ar aghaidh ag feirmeoireacht, agus is fiú eisceacht a dhéanamh díobh.
mr president, if we are serious about growth, there are two things we can do. first of all, we could ensure that the free market is actually free, and secondly we could challenge the attitude in our companies’ boardrooms which thinks that you can socialise debt and privatise profits. i am afraid that both of those issues still need some attention. the supposedly free economic system has been anything but free. it has been manipulated and abused. the same man who carried out the inquiry into the crisis in the united states gave evidence to parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs. he stated that, when some senior businesspeople went to their bosses in america and said that they could not justify their actions in taking these bonuses and that the whole thing was almost, if not downright, criminal, they were told, ‘iwbh, ywbh – i won’t be here, you won’t be here’. we had thought we had changed that attitude with the regulations that we have passed. i do not think it has changed. it would serve europe well if the commission spent a considerable amount of its time trying to re-educate people in the boardrooms of europe to help them understand that the businesses they are in are legitimate and profit-making, but that they can also incur losses. an oecd report from 2011 shows how the level of inequality in the 22 member nations it studied increased by 10% since the mid-1980s, with conditions deteriorating in 17 of them. however, it is important to note that no other economic system in history has generated as much wealth and progress as capitalism. global gdp increased by a factor of seven over the first 1800 years of the common era, and since then has multiplied 70 times, indicating that the capitalist social market economy can bring extraordinary benefits for the common good. but it must be free of state dictatorship and free of manipulation. that requires good and balanced regulation.
mr president, it is almost six months now since the irish presidency promised to place youth unemployment at the centre of its agenda. how has that worked out? well, youth unemployment has increased. now one in four young people across the eu do not have a job. youth unemployment stands at 60 % in spain and over 60 % in greece, and the army of 120 000 young people who have left ireland tells its own story there. now we have the youth employment initiative. it reminds me of what edmund burke said about hypocrisy – that ‘it can afford to be magnificent in its promises, for never intending to go beyond promise, it costs nothing’. this initiative is an attempt to create the impression that you are doing something about the crisis, but is completely underfunded, with eur 6 billion rather than the eur 21 billion which even the ilo said was the minimum required. it places the blame on young people, who are being told that they do not have enough training or experience. we do not need more schemes – free labour schemes like the jobbridge scheme in ireland – just providing free labour for big business. we need an end to austerity and we need massive investment to create jobs, put people back to work and redevelop our economies.
rapporteur. − mr president, as rapporteur, i would just ask you to allow me a brief technical remark concerning the vote on the fund for european aid to the most deprived. members wishing to support the position which was adopted by an overwhelming majority in the committee on employment and social affairs should vote against amendment 71, amendment 72 and the second part of amendment 73.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo mar a bhí gach duine eile beagnach sa seomra comh maith. vótáil 668 i bhfabhar agus ní raibh ach seachtar i gcoinne, agus deichniúr ag staonadh. taispeánann sé sin go bhfuil feisirí sa seomra seo bréan den iascaireacht mhídhleathach trasna an domhain ar fad. luaigh mo chomhghleacaí éireannach, pat the cope gallagher, aréir cad atá ag tarlú in sna hoileáin fharó san íoslainn. caithfimid rud éigin fiúntach a dhéanamh faoi sin. tá sé ag tarlú in a lán tíortha eile, taobh amuigh den aontas eorpach agus caithfimid níos mó ná cárta buí a bhronnadh orthu. dúirt an coimisinéir aréir go raibh sé ag bronnadh cárta buí. tá sé in am di cárta dearg a thabhairt dóibh agus smachtbhannaí a chur orthu chun an rud seo a chosc.
in writing. − i supported the rapporteur because curbing illegal fishing, though a difficult task, will ultimately lead to an improved market for eu fishermen and consumers alike. a necessary next step is the identification, naming, and eventual building of a case against those countries involved in illegal fishing. i agree with the rapporteur that ‘the case to identify such countries must be solid, in order for the identification to be legally irrefutable, which takes time and resources’. it is in the interests of all maritime nations to have a properly functioning trading system for the buying and selling of fish. it is also in our environmental interests, as illegal fishing is one of the most dangerous threats to marine biodiversity. the parliament has adopted numerous reports and resolutions pushing the commission to pursue the fight against illegal fishing, and this is in that same vein.
in writing. − the new regulation is an important part of the asylum package agreed by meps and member states’ ministers earlier this year, as an important first step towards a common european asylum system. the 2003 dublin regulation lays down the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member states responsible for examining an application for asylum lodged in a member state by a third country national or a stateless person., the purpose of the recast regulation is to make this system more efficient and, crucially, to ensure higher standards of protection for persons coming under its scope. we must put an end to the system of moving asylum-seekers around three or four member states and ensure that they have decent accommodation, healthcare, and means of subsistence, information on their rights in a language they understand and access to a qualified lawyer, and extend the possibility for unaccompanied minors to reunite with family members. in line with protocol 21 to the eu treaties, ireland was not automatically covered by the 2003 regulation but did decide to opt-in. i welcome the fact that the irish government has decided to continue ireland’s opt-in to eu legislation in this area.
in writing. − the new asylum procedures directive is a key part of the asylum package which was agreed by meps and member states’ ministers earlier this year, as an important first step towards a common european asylum system. the recast asylum seekers directive seeks to address deficiencies that have come to light in the 2005 directive. i welcome the new commitments on personal interviews in all cases, better access to information, and the more precise rules on time limits (six months maximum). i also very much welcome the fact that the new directive commits member states to ensuring that, when considering an asylum application, they must now assess whether the application is in need of special procedural guarantees due to the applicant’s age, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity. in line with protocol 21 to the eu treaties, ireland was not automatically covered by the 2005 directive but decided to opt in. regrettably, that decision has not been repeated in relation to the revised directive. i would strongly urge the irish government to give very serious consideration to opting into this new directive so that its enhanced protections apply in ireland.
mr president, the economic crisis and austerity have devastated many people’s living standards. in that context the discontinuation of the food distribution programme for the most deprived by the very institutions that are opposing this austerity and pushing millions into poverty was utterly shameful. i was therefore happy to vote in favour of the report on setting up a fund for aid for the most deprived. according to eurostat in 2011, 120 million people in the eu were at risk of poverty or social exclusion and shockingly 8.8% of the population are severely materially deprived. the amount of money the eu is prepared to put into this fund now is grossly inadequate next to these enormous challenges. to fight poverty an immediate and radical increase in funding for aid programmes is needed but also impoverishing austerity policies must be ended and a fundamentally different economy based on democratic public ownership and control should be built to guarantee a life of dignity for all.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo agus vótáil mé le mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir. thug mo ghrúpa vóta saor i gceithre cinn de na leasaithe, agus sna leasaithe sin vótáil mé de réir mholadh an rapóirtéara, mo chomhghleacaí éireannach, emer costello, a rinne an-jab ar fad ag cur na moltaí seo le chéile. tá áthas orm gur glacadh lena moltaí go léir. freisin, bhí áthas orm go ndúirt an coimisinéir olli rehn go bhfuil sé sásta, de bharr chinneadh na parlaiminte, ciste a chur ar bun an 1 eanáir an bhliain seo chugainn ar son na ndaoine is boichte san aontas. tá sé sin tábhachtach agus taispeánann sé go bhfuilimid sásta cabhrú leis na daoine is boichte, agus ar aghaidh linn mar sin.
mr president, this report today gives a legal basis for european countries to buy food, using their existing cohesion funding, for those who are genuinely in need. there is a blocking minority in council using the argument of subsidiarity. what i find interesting about this argument is that it is used time and time again when it comes to social issues, but it is completely disregarded when it comes to economic issues such as, for example, using the deposits of cypriot depositors to bail out their banks. however, the alde group proposed a voluntary fund so that member states could choose to spend their cohesion money in this way. some member states have systems already in place and do not want to change them, for example germany. other member states, like ireland, will be happy to use part of their cohesion or social funding for this very important purpose. we propose to ring-fence the fund so that participating member states can use a larger portion of their cohesion funding if they so choose. it is important to say that we have not called for any extra money in the budget. all we are doing is allowing member states the flexibility to use their existing cohesion funding to help provide food for those who need it.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo mar go bhfuil sé ríthábhachtach go gcuidíonn ae le daoine atá thíos leis de bharr bochtaineachta nó eisiamh sóisialta. ba bhuille trom do na milliúin duine san eoraip a bhí sa ghéarchéim eacnamaíoch agus meastar anois go bhfuil beagnach 120 milliún duine san eoraip faoi bhagairt na bochtaineachta nó an eisiata shóisialta. is é aidhm an chiste ná bia agus bunearraí riachtanacha a chur ar fáil do na daoine is díothaí ar fud na heorpa, leanaí agus daoine gan dídean san áireamh. feidhmíonn sé i gcomhpháirt le straitéis 2020 don eoraip, lena leagtar síos spriocanna i dtaca le laghdú de 20 milliún ar na daoine atá i mbaol na bochtaineachta nó atá ag fulaingt ón mbochtaineacht a bhaint amach faoi 2020. tréaslaím leis an rapóirtéir emer costello as an sár-obair a rinne sí ar an tsaincheist fhíorthábhachtach seo.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as it outlines a comprehensive package for addressing the needs of those in the margins who experience deprivation daily. it proposes a new eur 3.5 billion european fund for charities and ngos across europe to provide food aid and basic material assistance to those who, due to financial and societal constraints, cannot provide for themselves. this package can alleviate the struggle the most disadvantaged citizens face every day. it is especially important today – in a time of perpetual economic and social crisis – when some 40 million europeans are living in severe deprivation. the report also highlights the importance of social inclusion and how the provision of basic needs can enhance social inclusion in the long term. the fund is an added value for member states for addressing deprivation and enhancing social inclusion.
mr president, when the world’s major powers and eu political establishment need a pretext for imperialist interventions, they are only too happy to talk about the plight of refugees and the inhuman conditions that they face. however, it is nothing more than crocodile tears, the cynical hypocrisy which we have seen with the vote in parliament today. this report gives europol and member states the right to request the fingerprint information of asylum seekers. it amounts to a further stigmatisation of asylum seekers and, together with the other reports adopted today, represents an attack on basic democratic rights. asylum seekers in many european countries are already criminalised, isolated from society, and often kept in detention centres and even prisons. with the capitalist crisis, establishment politicians are attempting to deflect attention from the real causes of the crisis and are whipping up xenophobia and racism and demonising asylum seekers, refugees and minority groups. i reject this divide-and-rule tactic. we need a united resistance, a united movement of all working and oppressed people, regardless of their background, to resist the austerity and the crisis.
in writing. − the new eurodac regulation is a key part of the asylum package agreed by meps and member states’ ministers earlier this year, as an important first step towards a common european asylum system. eurodac was set up in 2000 as an eu-wide information system containing the fingerprint data of asylum seekers so as to facilitate the operation of the dublin regulation system for determining responsibility for examining asylum applications. the primary purpose must be the efficient management of asylum applications, not police investigations as originally sought by the council. access for law enforcement or for europol for the purposes of prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences must only be granted with the strictest safeguards and with the approval of an independent authority. it is important that the commission and the european asylum support office closely monitor member states’ implementation of these new rules so as to ensure their correct implementation. in accordance with protocol 21 of the treaties, ireland did not take part in the adoption of this proposal but i understand that the irish government intends to opt in at a later stage, subject to irish constitutional requirements.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé le mo ghrúpa sa tuarascáil seo agus an ceann ina dhiaidh go bhfuil baint dlúth aici léi, mar is dóigh liom go bhfuil sé tábhachtach go mbeadh cead ag daoine taisteal go saor trasna na heorpa. is ceann de na buntáistí is mó é a bhaineann le bheith i do shaoránach eorpach, agus tá sé tábhachtach do na saoránaigh. the free movement of people, goods and capital is one of the great benefits of being involved in the european union, but freedom does not necessarily mean the absence of control. there are times when, in the interests of the security of member states and of their citizens, certain measures have to be taken on a temporary basis. while my country is not a member of schengen, i would look forward to the day when we will be able to join. certainly we need freedom of movement, but also we need certain controls to guarantee security for all citizens.
mr president, i am really pleased that this transparency report got such a large majority in parliament today. it is a strong message from parliament that we demand full transparency on payments that governments make to issuers who are active in the extractive industries, in primary logging and in the banking, construction and telecommunications sectors. these disclosures should be made on a country-by-country basis and, for all those active in the extractive industries and primary logging, on a project-by-project basis. we are also insisting that all reports be publicly available, comprehensive and comparable, and that there are no exemptions. this transparency is crucial because it allows civil society and investors access to essential information which, firstly, allows them to hold governments to account; secondly, helps us to ensure that none of these resources are used in conflict zones to support one side or another; and, finally, allows investors to make informed investment decisions. we have also included a small regime specific to smes, which can potentially save them eur 1.7 billion.
in writing. − i am really pleased that this transparency report got such a large majority in the parliament today. it is a strong message from the parliament that we demand full transparency on payments made to governments by those who are active in the extractive industries, those involved in primary logging, those involved in banking, construction and telecommunications industries. these disclosures should be made on a country-by-country basis and for all issuers active in the extractive and logging industries, disclosures are on a project-by-project basis. we insist that all reports should be publicly available. they would be comprehensive with no exemptions and they would be comparable. this transparency is crucial. it allows civil society and investors access to essential information which firstly allows them to hold governments to account for their activities in the exploitation of the natural resources of their own country. secondly it helps to ensure that these resources are not used in conflict zones to support one side or the other and finally it allows investors to make informed investment decisions. we have also included a small regime specific to smes which will potentially save eur 1.7 billion per year as they are no longer required to report on a quarterly basis. a good decision by the parliament that very many citizens will support.
a uachtaráin, tá an comhbheartas talmhaíochta an-tábhachtach do chúrsaí talmhaíochta trasna na heorpa ar fad, agus sin an fáth go bhfuil dian-díospóireacht ar súil le blianta beaga anuas faoi. tá súil agam go n-éireoidh le huachtaránacht na héireann an comhbheartas talmhaíochta seo a thabhairt thar an líne roimh dheireadh na míosa seo. beidh sé sin an-tábhachtach, agus tá siad ag déanamh a ndíchill leis sin a dhéanamh. maidir leis an moladh seo, tá fadhb ag an gcoimisiún mar bhí na figiúirí a luaigh siad níos airde ná na figiúirí a fuair siad ón gcomhairle. dá bhrí sin, tá gá leasú a dhéanamh orthu. gan dabht ar bith, tá na híocaíochtaí an-tábhachtach do a lán feirmeoirí, ach go háirithe do na feirmeoirí beaga, atá ag brath orthu chun brabús a dheanamh. dá bhrí sin, is dóigh liom gur cheart eisceacht a dhéanamh díobh – cibé an bhfuil daoine ag fáil eur 5 000 nó eur 2 500, nó pé figiúir a bhfuilimid sásta glacadh léi – ach tá sé tábhachtach eisceacht a dhéanamh de na feirmeoirí beaga.
i scríbhinn. − ar mhaithe le feirmeoirí beaga a chosaint, vótáil mé i bhfabhar íocaíochtaí faoi eur 5 000 a chosaint ó laghdú ar bith faoi rialachán (ce) uimh. 73/2009.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i gcoinne an togra seo ós rud é go mbeadh tionchar suntasach i gceist d’éirinn leis, toisc go laghdódh sé ionadaíocht na tíre i bparlaimint na heorpa go 11 fheisire. mar atá faoi láthair, tá 23 choiste oifigiúil i bparlaimint na heorpa á gclúdach ag 12 fheisire éireannach – is dúshlán iontach mór é sin cheana féin agus bheadh sé i bhfad níos deacra fós mura mbeadh ach 11 fheisire ag an tír. ní mór go mbeadh guth agus tionchar ceart ag gach uile bhallstát agus dá laghdódh ae ar an ionadaíocht a bhíonn ag na ballstáit bheaga agus mheánmhéide chun freastal ar bhallstáit nua an aontais bheadh an guth agus an tionchar sin á mbaint, agus ní bheimis in ann ionadaíocht mar is ceart a dhéanamh ar phobal na héireann. tá an togra seo ag déanamh idirdhealaithe ar na ballstáit bheaga agus mheánmhéide, chun leasa na mballstát mór. tá an chumhacht fós ag rialtas na héireann a cheart crosta a úsáid sa chomhairle. impím arís ar an rialtas beart a ghlacadh chun a chinntiú nach gcaillfidh éire suíochán eile i bparlaimint na heorpa.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, tá méadú ollmhór tagtha ar an dífhostaíocht i measc na n-óg san ae, le 7.5 milliún duine óg idir 15 agus 24 bliana d’aois gan phost agus gan iad a bheith ar chúrsa oiliúna ná oideachais. tá tóir ar oibrithe le hardscileanna nó oiliúint ach, mar atá faoi láthair, tá breis is 70 milliún eorpach nach bhfuil ach cáilíocht íseal ar a mhéid acu agus tá ráta luathfhágála scoile de 13.5% ann san ae. ní mór dul i ngleic leis na neamhionannais sin agus ní foláir do na ballstáit ar fad infheistíocht a thabhairt chun na scileanna cuí a fhorbairt ar mhaithe le cúrsaí socheacnamaíochta. aontaím go hiomlán le moltaí na tuarascála i dtaca le spriocanna horizon 2020 a bhaint amach, go háirithe i dtaca le méid na ndaoine atá i mbaol na bochtaineachta nó an eisimh shóisialta a laghdú de 20 milliún ar a laghad. is í aidhm horizon 2020 ná an fás a spreagadh agus poist a chruthú, agus is léir go mbeidh buiséad suntasach faoin gcéad chreat airgeadais ilbhliantúil eile ag teastáil aige chuige sin.
in writing. − social investment in essence means targeting resources, including eu funds, on policies that are proven to help prepare people for life’s challenges, rather than waiting to ‘repair’ the damage caused by inaction. the experience of european countries with well-developed social investment strategies shows that they can help reconcile social and economic goals and lead to more sustainable public finances and growth, more and better jobs, better educational outcomes and lower levels of poverty and social exclusion. social indicators must have the same importance as economic and fiscal indicators under european economic governance. i welcome meps’ support for the frontloading and upward revision of the youth employment initiative, which will be used to support youth guarantee schemes to help tackle europe’s youth unemployment crisis, and for my amendment (paragraph 75) calling on the commission, when considering how the social dimension of a genuine economic and monetary union can be strengthened, to address member states’ public investment needs, particularly those relating to the social and education targets of the europe 2020 strategy. i am disappointed, however, that meps voted against calling on the commission to elaborate on the feasibility and the added value of introducing a minimum unemployment allowance.
in writing. i supported and defended this motion for a resolution. i fought to keep it truly social. in my view, the principle of reserving 25% of cohesion policy funds for the european social fund (esf) is a key principle in defending european solidarity. as the european parliament's permanent rapporteur on the esf, i am fully committed to defending, with my voice and my votes, policies aimed at growth and at greater cohesion between the different member states.
in writing. − i supported this oral question. i welcome the initiation of the social investment package. however i believe, we must emphasise the importance of the social dimension of the economic and monetary union if the package is to progress with optimal consideration of the needs of european citizens. i support the proposed inclusion of a social pillar within the emu to foster an economic, monetary and social union for future generations. many member states have yet to overcome their fiscal imbalances and increasing austerity is gravely impacting upon essential public services. economic growth and stability is necessary for the future of europe. however, we must not neglect the weakening social dimensions of the union. we must rethink present policies and strengthen governance in the social field with the end goal of generating targeted investment in education, social protection and employment.
in writing. − the eu needs clear rules on regional aid so as to prevent ‘subsidy races’ between member states, especially at a time of tight budgetary constraints. there needs to be greater consistency between these rules and eu cohesion policy. while state aid should be the exception, not the rule, and should be better targeted, the eu should consider specific regional derogations outside the regional aid maps to allow member states to tackle the impact of the economic crisis, especially the impact on jobs. i very much agree with the safeguard clause requiring firms that receive aid to maintain their activity in the region concerned for at least five years, so as to prevent ‘subsidy-shopping’. in light of the december 2012 leipzig/hall ruling, which obliges local authorities to notify to the commission all financing for infrastructure projects classified as state aid, we should also be extremely wary of imposing unnecessary administrative burdens on local authorities. finally, i regret that democratically-elected meps are only consulted on the adoption of these rules under article 109 and do not yet have an equal say with member states’ ministers, as is the norm for most other eu legislation.
i scríbhinn. − fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil, agus gur glacadh leis an tuarascáil sula bhfoilseoidh an coimisiún na treoirlínte um chúnamh réigiúnach don tréimshe 2014-2020, atá le foilsiú ar an 19 meitheamh 2013. molann an tuarascáil nach i gcás fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide amháin atá tacaíocht stáit le cur ar fáil, gan cuideachtaí móra ó réigiúin ‘c’ a fhágáil amach as, agus go dtabharfaí tacaíocht stáit do chuideachtaí in ainneoin mhéid na cuideachta. ba chóir tacaíocht stáit a dháileadh de réir an tionchair ó thaobh forbartha réigiúnaí, fostaíochta agus infheistithe sa cheantar de agus ní de réir mhéid na cuideachta.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím le tionscnamh ar bith a bhfuil sé mar aidhm aige dul i ngleic leis an dífhostaíocht i measc aos óg na heorpa. tá ráta dífhostaíochta i measc na n-óg de 50% ann i mballstáit áirithe agus is ráta 30% atá ann in éirinn. is uafásach an rud é sin agus an baol ann go mbeidh glúin iomlán ann gan deis fostaíochta ar bith acu ar fhágáil an chórais oideachais nó oiliúna dóibh. is fadhb mhór í an eisimirce i roinnt ballstát, mar is eol dúinn go maith in éirinn, agus ní mór dúinn deireadh a chur le ‘himeacht na hoilteachta’, lena bhfuil na daoine is éirimiúla agus is cáilithe ag fágáil a dtíre féin chun fostaíocht a lorg thar lear.
mr president, i would like to say to the high representative that i was appalled by the statements she put out on sunday night calling for restraint on all sides. at that stage i was travelling back from istanbul where i personally witnessed massive and systematic violence by the turkish police against protesters. in the working class suburb of gazi in istanbul, i saw massive use of tear gas, tear gas being shot as bullets against protestors, the use of flashbangs and the massive indiscriminate use of water cannon against protestors. your statement came just over 24 hours before the retaking of taksim square by the police and turning it into a war zone, as anyone can see from watching television, in a move that was entirely anticipated by the protestors and many others. the protestors are guilty only of demanding their democratic rights and freedoms. it is the government that is responsible for cracking down on those rights; it is responsible for massive police brutality and it is responsible for jailing lawyers for making a statement against those policies. it is the government that is responsible for the neo-liberal and anti-environmental restructuring of istanbul, for the repression of the kurdish people and for the imposition of conservative policies against kissing in public and selling alcohol, purely in order to divide and rule. the people i met in istanbul were an absolute inspiration. therefore, against the high representative’s advice, i say to them: do not show restraint; do not be afraid of returning to the streets and mobilising in order to demand your rights and mobilising against erdoğan’s attempt to clamp down. i support the call by socialist alternative and other groups in turkey to mobilise massively next weekend, to organise for a one-day general strike and to make sure that tayyip erdoğan is forced to resign.
madam president, i would like to thank the high representative and the rapporteurs. can i first of all start by mentioning a word which upsets a lot of people. the word is ‘unborn’. i heard a colleague speak recently as if human sexual reproductive health and rights and religion were somehow opposing forces in our society. the reality is that there are up to 200 million women missing from the world’s population because of gender-based abortion and infanticide. you cannot simply talk about rights in such bland circumstances. those unborn did not have the right to be terminated simply because they were women. so could we all take off the blinkers and have a more informed discussion about this and could our human rights leaders take a little more interest in this particular issue? it is wrong to terminate in those circumstances and it is time we said so unambiguously. secondly, can i say in relation to religion generally that i find this house in particular one of the most intolerant places for people who hold religious beliefs. there are people whom i have supported and issues i have supported like gay partnership, votes for prisoners – i have introduced bills for that – but when i stand up and say something that comes from my religious conviction – as a lot of my views do – they are dismissed as if i were from some strange planet. religion and religious conviction are as important to some people as, say, hurling is as a sport in my country and it should not be dismissed. we need to show respect for each other, but that respect has to be mutual. it has to be shared. people should not be questioned about their religious convictions when they appear at committees in this house. who does more for the poor, the suffering, the marginalised, people with hiv and aids, the unemployed and the homeless? i know who does it in my constituency, i know who does it in the third world. so let us not be so dismissive of people who hold religious beliefs. one last word on freedom of the press. let us have a really free press, not a freedom of the press where a crook who is president can ring the owner of the press and tell him that he wants a story killed. this is an issue that we have to address as well, where owners of the press can kill journalists’ stories when those stories should legitimately be covered. i welcomed the opportunity to participate in this debate. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i thank madam vergiat for that question and i am not in any way in disagreement with her at all, or the contents of the report in that regard. my comments were in relation to what another colleague had said, and he said it with perfect legitimacy, it is his point of view. i just wanted to put another point of view on the record, because this house is supposed to be about debate, it is supposed to be about difference. the whole european project is supposed to be about unity in diversity, but religion, and people who have a view on life when it commences, is also part of the diversity. so please let us have a little bit of mutual respect in the house, take off the blinkers and try to pursue truth on all parts. i think the winners will be the people we serve.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank our colleague filip kaczmarek for the work he has done on this report, and the commissioner for his sentiments which i support. i think we need to take stock, and we need to tell people the good news about development aid. if we do not do that, particularly in times of austerity, we are not going to carry people with us for the next phase. so i think we should reflect the world bank’s current prediction that two out of three developing countries will meet the millennium development goals. poverty has already been cut by half, thanks to governments, global agencies, ngos, the private sector and communities working together. this year in zambia, for example, overseas development aid accounts for only 3.5% of the budget. the figure 10 years ago exceeded 30%. the point is that we need to tell people about the progress that has been made. more specific examples of eu success in development are that since 2004 the eu has helped 32 million people gain access to improved water supply and 9 million to gain access to sanitation facilities. the number of children dying every day is 23 000, but it used to be 36 000. those 13 000 children are living because of intervention by the international community. we need to remind people of this, but we can also get the figures down further. two last things. firstly, let us hear more about the coordination of aid. the commission itself took the lead on this and i salute it for doing so. we need to achieve greater coordination between the union’s institutions and the member states. secondly, disaster risk reduction. for every euro we spend, we will save four. think of the lives that are being lost, think of the damage that is done. disaster risk reduction is moving up the agenda and i am delighted to see that. please push it harder because, at a time when we are trying to explain to people that we have difficulty with resources, here is a way to use resources that will give us a better return. so let us focus on coordination and disaster risk reduction. well done, commissioner, for the work you have done to date. we have made a lot of progress. much more needs to be done, but let us build on the progress that has been made. my appreciation to our colleague mr kaczmarek for a very good report.
blue-card question. – since my name has been mentioned, can i say first of all by way of question, mr cashman, are you aware that i have supported gay-partnership legislation, votes for prisoners and sexual and reproductive health? why do you not take off the blinkers and say that sexual reproductive health and rights include the right to terminate perfectly healthy unborn children, simply because they are females, simply because they are women? i have yet to hear you, michael, condemn gendercide. do not be talking about elements within the epp, why are there not elements within the socialist party that condemn this? that is true. don’t be pointing the finger. look at yourself michael, show some tolerance and respect.
madam president, i have not misled this house. i said that i have not heard mr cashman; i have no recollection of hearing mr cashman. but what i do hear from mr cashman, day in day out, is bigotry and intolerance. he does not accept the right of other people to have a view. he supports the right of perfectly viable children to be destroyed because it is politically correct and because there are votes in it. do not give me a moral lecture. take off the blinkers! i am one of the people who supported a lot of this so-called liberal agenda..... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would also like to add my support to mr cashman for his excellent report. there is no doubt that the mdgs have been a success at political level. they have mobilised political activity and indeed public opinion. progress has been made, but people around the world continue to suffer from poverty and hunger. there are still 1.3 billion people living in extreme poverty. 165 million children suffer stunted growth due to malnutrition. the global goal must be the eradication of poverty. there is no doubt that sustainable development is inextricably linked with this. i think the irish presidency has made some progress, particularly in the may conclusions. i recall what the commissioner said about a single voice for the eu and an integrated framework that is underpinned by human rights addressing issues of hunger, nutrition and climate change. importantly though, the post-2015 framework must include sexual and reproductive health rights. a thousand women still die needlessly in childbirth every day. it is critical to ensure that, when we come to agree on the commitments and the framework that will replace the mdg, sexual and reproductive rights are at the top of the agenda.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus molaim marietje schaake as ucht na dea-oibre sa tuarascáil seo agus in a lán tuarascálacha eile. gan dabht ar bith, is ceart búnusach é in aon tír dhaonlathach, go mbeadh saoirse ag an bpreas agus ag na meáin i gcoitinne. tá sé sin ar fáil trasna an aontais eorpaigh i gcoitinne. uaireanta bhféidir go mbíonn údarás ag iarraidh brú a chur ar an bpreas, agus ní ceart é sin a cheadú ach oiread. taobh amuigh den aontas tá a lán tíortha ina bhfuil deachtóirí iontu agus níl aon tsaoirse ag an bpreas agus caithfimid obair chun é sin a cheartú. ba chóir don phreas, nuair a bhíonn sé saor, a bheith neamhspleách agus féaráilte chomh maith agus cothrom na féinne a thabhairt do gach tuairim.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé le mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir sa tuarascáil seo. gan dabht ar bith, tá dul chun cinn an-mhaith déanta ag rialtas na tuirce, go háirithe ó thaobh cúrsaí eacnamaíochta de, agus ba chóir go leanfaimis ar aghaidh ag caint leo. faraor, tá fadhb mhór acu faoi láthair agus tá agóidí, agus mar sin de, ar súil sa tír. is trua sin, i ndáiríre, ach caithfear iad a thuiscint. ní raibh sé róchiallmhar ag an rialtais a bheith ag pleanáil ionad siopadóireachta a thógáil i bpáirc phoiblí. dá dtarlódh sé sin in aon tír eile bheadh agóidí inti chomh maith. dá bhrí sin, ba chóir don rialtas a bheith ciallmhar, stop a chur leis an plean seo agus ansin leanúint ar aghaidh ag déanamh leasuithe daonlathacha. sa tslí sin, rachaidh an tír iontach seo ar aghaidh agus beidh dul chun cinn le feiceáil.
a uachtaráin, arís, vótáil mé le mo ghrúpa sa tuarascáil seo agus is dóigh liom go bhfuil sé ciallmhar. in general, i think most people welcomed the establishment of the external action service. it was going to cost money, which it did, but it was also supposed to make savings for member states. when it first started there was a lot of criticism, particularly of the high representative for foreign affairs, baroness ashton. some of it may have been a bit extreme, and i think most people would agree that she has gone from strength to strength during this parliamentary term. she deserves credit for her many good works, particularly in recent times. the services are now kicking into action. they are being formulated and they are being coordinated. in my opinion it is now time for member states themselves, including my own member state, to cut back, as mr posselt said, on many of the embassies they have around the world and to make use of the european services.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo agus thacaigh mé go háirithe leis an mír i dtaca leis an gceart chun diúltú coinsiasach a bheith ag daoine i gcás ceisteanna morálta.
a uachtaráin, bhí mé sásta tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo chomh maith agus go háirithe le mo chara atá ina shuí taobh thiar díom, an tuasal millán mon, as ucht an dea-obair a rinne sé. táim ag tnúth leis an lá go mbeidh comhréiteach eadrainn féin agus na stáit aontaithe maidir le saorthrádáil agus mar sin de. tá sé níos tábhachtaí dúinne is dóigh liom ná na stáit aontaithe, go háirithe ó thaobh cúrsaí eacnamaíochta de agus ó thaobh an tionchar a bheidh againn ar an saol. mr president, i think that we have an opportunity which we should not let go and while there are issues, particularly in relation to data protection as a result of the prism revelations, i think there are things that we need to tackle. i have just come from a meeting with ambassador kennard, who is now leaving his post, and he explained some of the situation to us today.
a uachtaráin, is tuarascáil an-tábhachtach í seo dar liom. cabhróimid leis na daoine bochta ar domhan dá bharr, agus tá sé sin tábhachtach. dá bhrí sin tá moladh ag dul leis rapóirtéir, an tuasal kaczmarek, agus freisin mo comhghleacaí féin, gay mitchell, as ucht a chuid dea-oibre. fuair mo chomhghleacaí, gay mitchell, “feisire na bliana” anuraidh as ucht na dea-oibre a dhéanann sé le daoine bochta sa domhan i gcoitinne. bhí áthas orm agus ar mo chomhghleacaithe a vótáil ar son an chuid is mó de na moltaí seo. bhí áthas orm, freisin, gur thug ár ngrúpa ón epp saorvóta dúinn nuair a tháinig sé go dtí cearta atáirgthe agus sláinte na mban. vótálaimid i gcoinne na moltaí seo i gcoitinne mar nílimid i bhfabhar ginmhilleadh a bheith ar fáil go forleathan ach, taobh amuigh de sin, tá súil agam go gcabhróidh an tuarascáil seo le daoine bochta sna háiteanna is boichte ar domhan.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil déanta chun spriocanna forbartha na mílaoise a bhaint amach; tá feabhas tagtha ar chaighdeán beatha breis is 200 milliún duine i slumaí an domhain agus tá an sprioc i dtaca le laghdú 50% orthu siúd nach bhfuil teacht rialta acu ar uisce inólta bainte amach. tá 1.3 billiún duine fós ag maireachtáil faoi chúinsí na fíorbhochtaineachta, áfach, agus is léir mar sin go bhfuil i bhfad níos mó le déanamh agus tá gá ann bearta a chur i gcrích don tréimhse i ndiadh spriocdháta na sfm. meastar go mbeidh 9 mbilliún duine ar an domhan faoin 2050: sin 75 mhilliún duine breise sa bhliain ag iarraidh maireachtáil ó na hacmhainní talún céanna is atá againn inniu. beidh méadú de 60% ar tháirgiúlacht domhanda bia ag teastáil faoi 2050 chun freastal ar an mborradh daonra sin.
a uachtaráin, ní hé seo an chéad uair go bhfuilimid ag caint faoin rúis, agus ní nach ionadh. gan amhras, tá amhras ar a lán daoine nach bhfuil rudaí mar go mba chóir dóibh a bheith taobh istigh den rúis, go háirithe a mhéid agus a bhaineann sé leis an uasal putin agus a chomhghleacaithe. níl mórán measa acu ar shaoirsí na saoránach ná ar chearta sibhialta. go háirithe, níl ciall dá laghad a bheith ag glaoch gníomhartha eachtracha ar ghluaiseachtaí idirnáisiúnta mór le rá. dá bhrí sin, caithimidne san aontas eorpach a bheith i bhfad níos láidre agus i bhfad níos déine leo. cé gur cheart dúinn dul ar aghaidh ag caint leo, ba chóir dúinn tús áite a thabhairt do shaoirsí na saoránach, do chearta sibhialta, do thoghcháin oscailte féaráilte agus, mar a dúirt an tuasal posselt, do chaighdeáin mhorálta.
mr president, yes russia and azerbaijan have much in common, particularly in relation to their disdain for freedom of the press, freedom of association, and their intolerance of opposition. while much was expected of the upcoming elections in azerbaijan in october, the way it is being approached has been very disappointing. ilgar mammadov is a case in point. the leader of the opposition who wants to run for president has been thrown into prison on trumped-up charges of inciting riots, had his pre-trial detention postponed twice, and is allegedly in a punishment cell. he will probably be released, or put on trial, when the elections are over. this is just not tolerable, and we have to use all means at our disposal to have him released as soon as possible so that a fair election can be held. i think that is key at this point.
mr president, thank you for accommodating so many of us this afternoon. this is an appalling vista. just reading the motion for a resolution makes it clear that we have a big problem on our hands: ‘whereas the persecution of, and violence against, the rohingya minority continue to intensify, most notably through the destruction of property and places of worship, mass arrests, arbitrary imprisonment, torture, rape, and restrictions on freedom of movement, marriage rights and access to education’. i do not think that the european union will be able to solve this, but we do need to use all of our resources to try to get a short term solution, but more importantly a long-term solution. as an irish playwright once wrote: ‘joxer, th’ whole worl’s in a terrible state o’ chassis’. hopefully we can help these unfortunate rohingya people as a matter of priority. thank you also for your kind words about the irish presidency.
a uachtaráin, is dóigh liom go bhfuil sé tábhachtach go bpléifimis an t-ábhar seo mar tá an iomarca daoine ag fáil bháis agus á ngortú ar ár mbóithre gach uile lá. d’ardaigh an t-uasal simpson pointe an-suimiúil nuair a dúirt sé nach dtugaimid an méid aird ar thionóiscí a tharlaíonn ar na bóithre agus a thugaimid, mar shampla, nuair a tharlaíonn siad in eitleáin. is fiú mar sin an t-ábhar seo a phlé. i think many people are virtually dependent on the roads to do their work and politicians are no exception. i myself do about 25 or 26 hours’ driving every weekend from the airport and across the constituency, so obviously road safety is a matter of major importance to us. i think it is good, as we discussed in the previous topic, that we should exchange best practice and try to bring in the best measures across europe to guarantee safety on our roads.
i scríbhinn. – gortaítear 1.5[nbsp ]milliún duine sa bhliain ar bhóithre na heorpa agus meastar go mbíonn ceithre dhianghortú (e.g. damáiste don inchinn nó do chorda an dromlaigh), 10[nbsp ]dtromghortú agus 40[nbsp ]mionghortú ann in aghaidh gach bás ar bhóithre na heorpa, agus costas eur[nbsp ]130 billiún sa bhliain i gceist. cé go bhfuil feabhas ag teacht ar staitisticí sábháilteachta in éirinn, agus ceann de na rátaí báis ar bhóithre is ísle in ae againn, ní mór go leanfaimis ag déanamh iarrachta cúrsaí sábháilteachta a fheabhsú ar mhaithe le tiománaithe, rothaithe agus coisithe a chosaint. chuir an plean gníomhaíochta maidir le sábháilteacht ar bhóithre 2001-2010 go mór le hiarrachtaí ae agus na mballstát feabhas a chur ar chúrsaí sábháilteachta. ní foláir go leanfaí leis an dea-obair sin faoin gclár eorpach maidir le sábháilteacht ar bhóithre 2011-2020, a leagann síos pleananna uaillmhianacha i dtaca le laghdú de 50% ar na básanna ar bhóithre na heorpa a bhaint amach sna deich mbliana atá amach romhainn. fearaim fáilte roimh an gceist thráthúil seo agus aontaím le mo chomhghleacaithe a mhéid a bhaineann le bearta chun dianghortuithe a laghdú faoi 2020. tacaím go háirithe leo siúd atá ag iarraidh go mbeadh lámhleabhar ann do chúram leighis ar an láthair i gcás tionóiscí tráchta.
mr president, there is no doubt that youth unemployment is the greatest challenge facing the eu, and ireland in particular. i welcome last friday’s agreement between council and parliament to frontload the eur[nbsp ]6[nbsp ]billion budget for tackling youth unemployment in 2014-2015. i particularly welcome that the council has conceded to parliament’s demand on flexibility so that unspent eu funds can continue to be put into youth employment measures from 2016. proper implementation of the youth guarantee will be crucial. i have met with many organisations working with young people from tallaght, ballyfermot, coolock and balbriggan. they have emphasised the necessity of focusing on what young people need and to ensure that we address shortcomings of existing esf-funded projects. if the youth guarantee is to work then we must consult widely with grassroots organisations in drawing up plans. but we also need the learning from pilot projects, and i am calling on the european commission to announce the results of the youth guarantee pilot projects without further delay. project applicants like ballymun in dublin applied last year and have been waiting since last april for the results. it is imperative that the momentum which is now behind the youth guarantee is maintained and that we give hope to young people and show them that europe can deliver for them.
mr president, first of all can i say at the outset that my country fought for its independence for 700 years and eventually got it and gained sovereignty the day we joined the european union. up until then the british chancellor of the exchequer set our interest rate and set the value of our currency and we got ten minutes’ notice. it has been a great experience for a small country like ours to get out from under that dictatorship and to be able to share sovereignty with other member states. secondly, i would like to raise the question that george soros has raised about eurobonds. he says that, if eurobonds are introduced, the danger of default would disappear, balance sheets and banks would receive an immediate boost and so would the budgets of heavily indebted countries. could we please hear what is the position of the president of the council and the president of the commission on this? is this a runner or is not a runner? we really need to do something to put this to bed or to put it on the agenda. can i say in relation to this crisis we are in that i believe it is time now for a solidarity charter and that is not just a question of the germans showing solidarity to us; it is a question of us – particularly small states – showing solidarity as well. let us put solidarity centre stage. what do we need to give in order to receive? i think that is the sort of thing we need to say. lastly, i would like to say that i believe the german federal president yesterday quoting benjamin franklin was correct when he said: ‘whoever gives up freedom to gain security will, in the end, lose both’. we should have an explanation from the us ambassador to the eu as to what is going on and he should then make himself available to a committee of inquiry in this house so we can determine exactly what has been happening in relation to these spying allegations.
mr president, i have moved from the back benches to the front rows in recent times and – mr farage will be disappointed when i say this – the new mood in this house is much calmer than it has been for some time. that is a reflection of the solid, calm work of the commission, council and parliament in taking step-by-step, measured responses to the crisis. they are not headline-grabbers, mr farage – something you always try to do – but they are important for our citizens. the day we stop taking a measured step-by-step approach to the problems will be the day that europe will fail. so i would say to all of us in this house who have families, children, parents and who have responsibilities: do not to be led by the noises of the extremists.
mr president, having rejected the council’s initial proposal for the mff, we pushed as far as we could for more funding to address a mounting unemployment crisis, particularly amongst our youth, for investment in training, regional development and infrastructure and for more flexibility in the use of funds in order to address our priorities at a time of recession. in the face of conservative austerity-bent majorities across the eu institutions, we find ourselves forced to settle for a minimum. at the same time, the council continues to drag its feet on a resolution mechanism for broken banks, to release the public purse from the vice-grip of toxic banking debt, which was – let us not forget – the foremost cause of the economic crisis we face. the austerity experiment goes on, ignoring the fact that the root of the problem – public expenditure on public goods, social services and welfare support – did not bring us to the brink. we have to acknowledge reality and stop suffocating our economies – for growth’s sake.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, firstly congratulations to the irish presidency on a very successful and active six months. in view of something that was said in the house earlier this morning, can i say to our croatian colleagues: welcome. in 1916, we had a rising in my country to secure our independence and i believe that, if the people who led that rising could have looked forward to today, to the seventh successful completion of ireland’s presidency of the european union, they would have been very proud of our achievements and of the sovereignty that we have achieved. i say this to croatia: do not listen to the kinds of comments that were made here this morning. this membership of the european union is what will bring strength and a greater say and sovereignty to croatia, as it has to ireland. i would like to commend our government for its professional and smooth chairmanship of the council of the european union and make particular mention of some of our ministers who have been back and forth between brussels and strasbourg, and indeed beyond, for the last six months. to the taoiseach enda kenny, for his energy and commitment, i say a particular word of appreciation; to tánaiste eamon gilmore for his conduct at the mff in particular, i think we should show appreciation; and to the minister for european affairs, lucinda creighton, for keeping us well briefed and for her energy and her work here with us, i would say thank you very much indeed. this is the first irish presidency under the new european council arrangements, including the new arrangements for the agreement of the mff, and i believe it was a great success. i have one last comment. i believe that, given the momentum that has been made in ireland and the achievements that have been made in recent years, and given the fact that we have had the celtic tiger years, our brightest days are still ahead. i wish the government well with that.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i would like to say to the taoiseach: given that the proclaimed stability, jobs and growth have clearly not materialised, could i perhaps suggest an alternative slogan for the presidency: ‘never let the facts get in the way of a good story’. six months ago, the good story was a recovery country leading recovery in europe. the unfortunate fact is ireland’s return to recession, leading a deepening recession in europe. today, the good story is what is presented as a european budget stimulus. the stubborn fact is that this is the first austerity budget in the history of the european union. it involves cuts of tens of billions of euros – not to bloated salaries, not to bloated expenses, but to funding for workers losing their jobs, to erasmus, to development programmes and to cohesion funding. it will further worsen the crisis. the other good story today, according to the taoiseach, is the opening of free trade talks with the us, but the uncomfortable facts suggest that the so-called special relationship is built on extensive spying on european governments and millions of citizens. would the taoiseach agree that these talks, at the very least, should be suspended, pending a full investigation? would he also agree that edward snowden should be commended for his actions and should be granted asylum in ireland or another european country?
mr president, first of all i want to congratulate the taoiseach and tánaiste eamon gilmore on a successful irish presidency. as has been outlined, the main priority of the seventh irish presidency was stability, growth and jobs, with a particular emphasis on youth employment. we cannot underestimate the corrosive impact of youth unemployment across europe, which is poisoning young minds which would otherwise be full of idealism and hope. so i welcome last week’s initial agreement on the one-trillion-euro mff, and in particular the decision to front-load up to eur 6 billion into tackling youth unemployment. i particularly welcome that council conceded to parliament’s demand on flexibility, so that unspent eu funds will continue to fund youth employment initiatives from 2016. as rapporteur for parliament on the fund for european aid to the most deprived, i welcome the decision to allocate an extra eur 1 billion to bring the fund back to eur 3.5 billion, and i hope that this dossier can now be agreed with the lithuanian presidency. the irish presidency has made progress in many areas. one – banking union – has proved to be painfully slow, but it should be acknowledged nevertheless that significant progress has been made towards better supervision and resolution, on capping bankers’ bonuses and, crucially, on breaking the link between banking and sovereign debt. but there is still much work to be done and we need the proposal on banking resolution, as president barroso referred to it today, and i welcome the fact that he is going to bring this proposal forward shortly. our citizens need reassurance that never again will taxpayers be burdened with the bill for the reckless, irresponsible and even criminal behaviour of bankers. i believe it is important for us to develop the social dimension to economic and monetary union. social union is what will inspire solidarity among the citizens of the eu and restore our faith in the vision of our founding fathers: peace and prosperity through solidarity and cohesion. i would like to pay tribute to the hard work done by the irish ministers and officials, and indeed eu officials, over the last six months.
a uachtaráin, ar an gcéad dul síos ba mhaith liom comhghairdeas a dhéanamh leis an taoiseach, an tánaiste, an aire creighton, na hairí go léir agus na hoifigigh go léir a rinne sár-obair le linn tréimhse na huachtaránachta. i am pleased that the parliament concluded an agreement with the presidency in relation to the common fisheries policy. while disappointed that my key recommendation in relation to the hake quota preference was not accepted, i am pleased that it is strengthened within the report. the budget represents a good deal for ireland over the next seven years and, to be nationalistic about it, i am of course delighted that the taoiseach has included eur 100 million extra for the bmw region and eur 150 for that important peace programme that has done so much to bring peace to northern ireland, and indeed the whole of ireland. the eur 1.5 million for the cap is all-important to us. the new unemployment initiative is to be welcomed and requires cofinancing, as does the leader programme. finally, mr president, in the presence of the taoiseach, i would like to thank you in particular. ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl duitse as ucht an cuidiú a thug tú domsa suíomh idirlín i ngaeilge a chur ar fáil sa pharlaimint.
mr president, i would say to the taoiseach that words matter and the words that have not been quoted from his speech i will now quote. i think they reflect his standing and his government’s approach to the presidency of the european union: ‘we have discharged our presidential duty’. i think many in this house should listen to those words and reflect on them. i congratulate the taoiseach and those on his team who have worked hard for the european union and discharged their duties to very good effect. because words matter, i think also we must reflect on the words of ms anderson. she may be wearing the green today, but it is only on the outside. i regard her comments with the contempt they deserve, and i go back to congratulate our presidency: minister creighton, tánaiste eamon gilmore, minister coveney. i was one of the few negotiators from this parliament on the common agricultural policy, on which full respect was given to this parliament’s new codecision powers and where we got a political agreement. in relation to the other policies, the presidency worked meticulously to deliver for the european union, so it should be proud of its work, but to those who are coming afterwards, to the lithuanian presidency, i would say do not worry – there is still a great deal of work to be done! that is exactly what the european union is about: constant ongoing work for citizens. do not mind the headline-grabbers like cohn-bendit, who did not even sit through the debate, or ms anderson, who was so negative; the irish presidency has done great work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the reform of the proposal which produces substantial savings. savings are necessary at a time of financial crisis in europe. however it is vital to strike a balance between savings and the need to ensure that the institutions can perform their tasks and duties in accordance with their obligations and powers under the treaties.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it contributes eur 365 billion to european gdp and supports 5.1 million jobs. however, seven years after the communication from the commission on developing the agenda for the community’s external aviation policy, we still have not reached the goals that were set out. we have to make rapid progress on european aviation. ireland, as an island nation, depends largely on aviation. new economic challenges are arising from regions of the world where much more permissive legislation is allowing companies to build huge new airports that divert a lot of travellers from european hubs. the european union urgently needs increased airport capacity in order to avoid the risk of losing competitiveness relative to the regions that are experiencing rapid, exponential growth. we must continue to be focused on the asia-pacific region, the middle east and the south american region. investment in airport infrastructure must be taken seriously, even if the demand does not exceed supply. we have to build for the future.
in writing. − i voted yes to this report because of the fact that the aviation sector is key to the european economy. it contributes eur 365 billion to european gdp and supports 5.1 million jobs. i believe that it is important to invest now in order to protect our competitiveness and prominence against aviation sectors in other parts of the world, even if demand has not yet reached supply.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s efforts to establish a framework for annual reporting by member states on their export credit activities in order to step up transparency at eu level. the main objective of reporting on the activities of member states’ export credit agencies (ecas) is to monitor the compliance of these ecas with the international disciplines applicable to export credits and with obligations laid down in the treaty on the european union (teu), and in particular its articles 3 and 21 which define the principles governing the union’s relations with the rest of the world, as well as the guiding principles of the union’s action on the international stage.
mr president, the maritime labour convention was adopted by the international labour organisation on 23 february 2006. i, and the parliament as whole, have long supported measures to establish minimum standards for working and living conditions on board ships. given the global nature of the shipping industry, it is appropriate that such standards be applicable to the entire industry. the measures to ensure compliance have a particularly important role to play in achieving these objectives. substandard ships are unacceptable both in view of the workers’ rights and also for the sake of ship safety, security and environmental protection. while early ratification of the mlc and the transposition of the amended directive are important, creating an adequate legislative framework is not sufficient. member states must also recruit an adequate number of inspectors with the necessary skills, including the ability to assess seafarers’ living and working conditions on board ships and the european maritime safety agency has an important role to play in training these inspectors to carry out mlc control functions.
in writing. − i voted ‘yes’ to this report because it is appropriate for the european union to provide mechanisms to verify that the relevant standards are applied on board all ships calling at eu ports, regardless of the nationality of the seafarers or the ship’s flag. this also provides a means to limit social dumping, which undermines working conditions and penalises shipowners who are offering fair and decent working conditions
mr president, i voted in favour of this dossier. in particular i like its aims in the area of reducing the papers drivers have to carry with them all the time. i agree with the rapporteur and the commission that the establishment of electronic databases should be done without delay. i also feel that all these national databases should be connected to other member states so as to make identification of the vehicle easier. we are now in a cross-border market and we need streamlining of vehicles and of their records, simply from the point of view of (1) efficiency and (2) road safety issues. well done to the rapporteur; it is a good report.
a uachtaráin, maidir leis an tuarascáil seo táim réasúnta sásta go bhfuil cothrom maith faighte ag an rapóirtéir ionas nach mbeadh ró-oifigiúlachas ann. feictear domsa go bhfuil an tuarascáil seo go maith ó thaobh an chomhshaoil, ó thaobh an mhargaidh inmheánaigh agus ó thaobh an mhargaidh trasteorann de. tá súil agam go gcuideoidh sé seo le margadh iomaíoch a chruthú san aontas eorpach. caithfimid mar eorpaigh oibriú as lámha a chéile chun líon na mbásanna ar ár mbóithre a laghdú. ba mhaith liom mar chríoch mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl do bhean sehnalová.
a uachtaráin, fuair mé féin, mar bhall an epp sa choiste um iompar agus turasóireacht, an-chuid ríomhphost ó ghluaisrothaithe na heorpa, ach go háirithe ó ghluaisrothaithe in éirinn agus ó mag ireland, mar gheall ar an ábhar seo. measaim go bhfuil cothrom na féinne bainte amach ag an rapóirtéir, an t-uasal kuhn. ach, nílim cinnte áfach go bhfuil gá ann scrúdú bliantúil a dhéanamh ar ghluaisrothair. vótáil mé in aghaidh na tuarascála seo mar gheall ar an scrúdú bliantúil do gluaisrothaithe. tá bealaí i bhfad níos éifeachtaí ann chun feabhas a chur ar shábháilteacht ar bhóithre, ar nós oiliúint níos fearr do ghluaisrothaithe agus feabhas a chur ar an infrastruchtúir bóithre san eoraip. ní féidir linn dearmad a dhéanamh ar chuid de na príomhaidhmeanna den parlaimint seo, agus is é sin sábháilteacht ar ár mbóithre.
a uachtaráin, is ceart agus is cóir go bpléifimid sábháilteacht ar na bóithre anseo sa pharlaimint. tá trí thuarascáil os ár gcomhair inniu, agus is maith sin. tá an iomarca daoine ag fáil bháis ar na bóithre; tá a lán daoine eile a bhíonn gortaithe gach uile bhliain, agus dá mbeadh an méid céanna daoine ag fáil bháis agus á ngortú de bharr timpistí eitleáin is dóigh liom go mbeadh rudaí i bhfad níos práinní agus go mbeadh rúille búille ann. dá bhrí sin fáiltím roimh na tuarascálacha seo. ach mar a dúirt a lán feisirí eile, ba cheart solúbthacht a thabhairt isteach i dtreo agus go mbeadh seans ag na ballstáit na rialacha a chur i bhfeidhm de réir mar a cheapann siad a oireann dá dtír féin. tá na tuarascálacha seo le cur ar ais go dtí an coiste agus tá súil agam go dtabharfar ar ais chugainn iad leis an tsolúbthacht scríofa isteach iontu. chabhródh sé sin linn go léir.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for this directive, as chemical pollution is one of the causes of ever increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the availability and quality of safe and clean water for our society. appropriate measures are a central aspect of sustainable water management. the proposal is that the three substances be kept on the list of priority substances, but that their environmental quality standards (eqs) be deleted. the eqs will be proposed by the commission in the next review of the list in four years time. this will allow for more comprehensive data to be gathered, with the latest scientific studies being taken into account and for public health benefits to be more properly accounted for in the corresponding risk assessments.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo chomh maith agus is dóigh liom go bhfuil an-seans againn a lán jabanna a chruthú trí acmhainní na farraige a úsáid i gceart amach anseo. deirtear é sin sa tuarascáil, agus is maith sin. freisin, ós rud é go bhfuilim ag caint agus nach bhfuaireas seans labhairt ar maidin maidir le huachtaránacht na héireann, ba mhaith liom ar dtús an rialtas a mholadh as ucht an dea-jab a rinne siad i gcoitinne. go háirithe maidir leis an ábhar seo, tá moladh ag dul don aire simon coveney as ucht leasú a dhéanamh ar an gcomhbheartas iascaigh, agus is dóigh liom go mbeidh toradh maith air sin amach anseo. i gcoitinne, tá an-seans againn mórán jabanna a chruthú go háirithe má dhírímid ar thurasóireacht mar a bhaineann sí leis an bhfarraige. is dóigh liom go bhfuil éileamh mór air sin faoi láthair agus fásfaidh an t-éileamh sin amach anseo. dá bhrí sin tá a lán seansanna againn mórán a dhéanamh maidir leis an bhfarraige amach anseo.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go hiomlán le tionscnamh an fháis ghoirm toisc go bhfuil creat i gceist leis a rachaidh chun leasa do gheilleagar na heorpa. ní mór dúinn cur chuige nua a chur i bhfeidhm don gheilleagar muirí ar mhaithe le húsáid níos fearr agus níos eacnamúla a bhaint as na hacmhainní nádúrtha atá againn, chomh fada agus go ndéantar é sin ar bhealach inmharthana.
mr president, as has been said, different business models work well in different circumstances and different member states. in my own country there is a tremendous record and history of successful cooperatives going back to sir horace plunkett over two centuries ago. in my own constituency the kerry group – which is now a multi-billion transworld agrifood business – started off as a small cooperative in listowel. so it is certainly a model worth pursuing, particularly now at a time when we are trying to look at every opportunity to develop the economy and to create jobs and growth. regarding the motion for a resolution itself, there was a free vote within my group on paragraph 25, which calls for the transfer of businesses to employees and that it should be supported by a specific eu budget line that also includes financial instruments. some thought this was a good idea; some thought it was a bad idea. the fine gael members in my group supported it.
i scríbhinn. − tá ról an-tábhachtach ag comharchumainn i ngeilleagar na héireann agus na heorpa, go háirithe ó thaobh poist a chruthú de agus nasc a chruthú idir brabúsacht agus dlúthpháirtíocht. is eagraíochtaí riachtanacha iad na comharchumainn, go háirithe in am an ghátair, toisc go gcuireann siad le comhtháthú sóisialta, eacnamaíoch agus réigiúnach. faoi láthair, tá fostaíocht inmharthana á cur ar fáil ag comharchumainn do 5.4 milliún duine agus tá léirithe ag na comharchumainn le blianta beaga anuas go bhfuil cumas i bhfad níos fearr iontu déileáil le géarchéimeanna eacnamaíocha ná mar atá i ngnáthchuideachtaí. anuas ar sin, tá na luachanna céanna ag na comharchumainn agus atá ag ae féin agus na spriocanna céanna acu agus atá ag straitéis 2020 don eoraip.
in writing. − i support and commend workers and communities that come together to provide essential jobs, services and goods for themselves and their communities. they are often doing so due to the failure of the private market to satisfy their basic needs. i believe that support for cooperatives from the state, while welcome in many cases, cannot be used to obviate the state’s responsibility to guarantee the right to work and decent public services for all. this report presents the establishment of cooperatives as a solution to mass redundancies and to the economic crisis in general. while austerity policies remain in place and big business refuses to invest, the capitalist crisis will continue. i therefore call for measures to defend jobs and services, including nationalisation of companies and industries. as long as the capitalist system remains in place cooperatives face competition from profit maximising firms and therefore face pressures on the services they provide, the pay and conditions of their workers and their democratic structures. i feel therefore that it is essential workers in cooperatives have full trade union rights, and that democracy in cooperatives that brings workers and consumers to the heart of decision-making in the firms be defended.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, bulgaria is yet another country to join the worldwide struggle against poverty and corruption. one of the participants in the protests commented accurately: ‘we are all linked together: bulgaria, turkey and brazil. we are fighting for different reasons, but we all want our governments to finally work for us. we are inspiring each other.’ the protests are an expression of huge popular anger against all the establishment parties. it is quite hypocritical now for these parties to blame one another for the political stalemate in order to gain politically from the people’s misery and poverty, which they are responsible for creating. bulgaria is the poorest country in the european union, with an average income of less than eur 400 per month and state pensions below eur 100 per month. the eu, with its pro-privatisation, pro-liberalisation agenda, is complicit in this impoverishment. the key to resolving the economic and social situation, as well as to achieving real democracy, lies with the working-class poor and young people in bulgaria. it is vital to build democratic and fighting trade unions, as well as genuinely socialist parties to organise the movement and struggle for radical socialist change.
mr president, i just want to say i think that this is a novel situation for the european union, one that i am excited about even though my own country is not involved or in favour in this point in time. firstly, enhanced cooperation is something which is going to become more and more important within the european union as we continue to grow. it was ok when we had maybe six, nine, twelve member states, but as of yesterday we are 28 and that is going to continue into the future, so enhanced cooperation is a way of getting round the unanimity factor. secondly having a financial transaction tax – and i compliment the countries that are willing to take it on – is going to be very exciting for everybody, particularly if it is successful and it does not lead to a flight of finance out of these particular countries. that then would encourage other countries to get involved and that is what i hope will happen in due course.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom arlene mccarthy agus an coimisinéir barnier a mholadh as ucht na n-iarrachtaí atá á ndéanamh acu chun smacht agus struchtúr a chur ar na bainc, agus an cultúr a bhí iontu a athrú. tá sibh ag déanamh jab an-mhaith ar son shaoránaigh na heorpa agus go háirithe ar son chúrsaí eacnamaíochta na heorpa.
mr president, the revised regulations here regarding olaf are all about giving it the necessary tools to be more effective in trying to combat fraud. unfortunately, or ironically, it is caught up in its own way of dealing with it, especially in relation to the conduct of investigations against mr dalli who is naturally not too happy and wishes to have a further say in these matters. it is also about how the director general, mr kessler, conducted investigations; whether he was amateurish or professional in those investigations. it all bears talking about, and reflecting on necessary reforms. i think the strengthening of olaf is something we can be pleased about, especially in relation to a better definition of fraud, protection of whistleblowers, increased information exchange between olaf and member states, exchange between parliament and olaf and finally a strengthening of the supervisory committee.
in writing. – diseases are spread through everyday contact like sneezing, coughing, consumption of contaminated food and water, or contact with animals and insects. the situation worsens as globalisation continues to bring people from around the eu and the world closer together. economically, these diseases have dire impacts on economic growth, even as they are spurred along by rapid growth and mobility. evidence now confirms that development funds are most productively spent lifting the burdens of disease because sick people cannot build healthy economies. the time is ripe to strengthen cooperation and coordination between all member states on preventing the spread of severe human diseases across the borders of member states and to combat other serious cross-border health threats. i welcome the rapporteur’s report, particularly in regard to making access to vaccines and medication fairer, especially for smaller member states. furthermore, i support the extension of the existing coordination mechanism for communicable diseases to include all health threats of biological, chemical, environmental and unknown origin. this will mean the exchange of information on not only communicable diseases but also on other serious cross-border health threats through the early warning and response system, resulting in a coordinated wider approach to health security at eu level.
mr president, i have never heard such rubbish as that spoken by the last member. the irish presidency has been extremely good. even angela merkel paid tribute to it in terms of the number of dossiers that have been got over the line: the common agricultural policy, common fisheries policy and 80 dossiers that were lying there for years. but i am not going to dwell on the irish presidency because it has been enormously successful. the late general de gaulle had a dream that one day we would have a united europe from the atlantic to the urals. we are the ones on the atlantic and this week we had a very significant occasion when that flag over there – the croatian flag – joined the european union. so we are getting there; we are on the way from the atlantic to the urals. serbia, kosovo and so on are all lined up to enjoy membership of the european union. i want to wish the lithuanian presidency every success. here, we have a proud state with a long history – very traditional – that for many years was locked in the icy grip of moscow and is now a proud member of the european union and will be leading the european union for the next six months. lithuania, we wish you well.
a uachtaráin, bhí díomá orm inné nuair nach bhfuair mé seans labhairt nuair a bhíomar ag déanamh díospóireachta ar uachtaránacht na héireann. tharla an rud céanna ar maidin agus muid ag déanamh díospóireachta ar uachtaránacht na liotuáine, cé go raibh mé sa pharlaimint i rith na ndíospóireachtaí go léir ó thús deireadh. ach anois, ós rud é go bhfuil deis cainte agam ba mhaith liom a rá go bhfuil áthas orm go bhfuil an chuid is mó de na tráchtairí féaráilte neamhspleácha ag rá go ndearna éire an-jab. tá moladh ag dul don rialtas, don taoiseach, don tánaiste agus do na hairí go léir as ucht an jab an-mhaith a rinne siad agus go háirithe, is dóigh liom, ba cheart moladh a thabhairt d’obair na státseirbhíseach a rinne an-jab freisin. tá sé tábhachtach iad a lua. ba mhaith liom rath a ghuí ar an liotuáin don sé mhí atá le teacht. bhí áthas ar fad orm nuair a glacadh leis an mff. tá an-mholadh ag dul do alain lamassoure, ár rapóirtéir, agus don tánaiste eamon gilmore a rinne togha jab ar fad.
i scríbhinn. − molaim uachtaránacht na héireann as an gcomhaontú a baineadh amach i dtaca le buiséad fadtréimhseach an ae agus fearaim fáilte ar leith roimh an tsolúbthacht atá ann chun béim thar cuimse a chur ar chláir cosúil le horizon 2020, erasmus+ don óige, oideachas agus spórt, agus chun dul i ngleic le dífhostaíocht i measc na n-óg. is rud maith é an ciste de eur 8 billiún a bheidh ann anois chun cabhrú le daoine óga fostaíocht nó oiliúint fhiúntach a bhaint amach ach ní mór go n-úsáidfeadh na ballstáit an ciste sin i gceart chun dul i ngleic le bunchúiseanna na dífhostaíochta in ionad é a chaitheamh ar réiteach a thabhairt isteach, nach mbeadh ann ach réiteach sealadach. táim an-mhíshásta le cinneadh na comhairle mórcheisteanna maidir le hathchóiriú an chomhbheartais talmhaíochta (cbt) a choimeád faoin gcreat airgeadais ilbhliantúil agus gan plé a dhéanamh orthu faoi chainteanna an cbt. tá solúbthacht na gcolún agus cúrsaí uasteorainneacha i gcroílár athchóiriú an cbt ach níor ligeadh dúinn plé a dhéanamh orthu sna cainteanna cbt idir an pharlaimint agus an chomhairle toisc go raibh siad socraithe ag an gcomhairle roimhe sin. is sárú ar chonradh liospóin agus ar lánchumhachtaí comhchinnteoireachta i gcúrsaí talmhaíochta é.
in writing. − the proposal aims to facilitate and liberalise the trade in motor vehicles by enabling manufacturers to conduct a universal set of type-approval standards with the knowledge that their products will in turn be approved and recognised by many countries in various continents as being in conformity with their national legislation.
in writing. − at an international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) constructs harmonised requirements, intended to remove technical barriers to the trade in motor vehicles. i am in favour of the report, as it seeks to simplify the procedure regarding the voting of unece regulations by the commission on behalf of the union, thereby leading to a reduction in the delay of the adoption of these acts in the framework of the unece.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus páirt a ghlacadh ar son mo ghrúpa sa díospóireacht a bhí againn faoi aréir. ach bhí díomá orm nach bhfuair sé an tromlach a bhí ag teastáil. i think the main reason it did not get the qualified majority it needed was because of scheduling. it was on immediately after the break for the sakharov prize and i think that was unfair to the proposals. if you look at the figures, 705 voted immediately before the sakharov prize, 665 voted on this report, which was on straight afterwards, and the figures rose to 710 when all the members got back into the chamber. i think that was an unfair position and something that should be noted for the future. i must just finish by saying that, while mr hannan always makes some interesting points, his conclusions are not correct. to say that the european union is synonymous with fraud is a gross exaggeration.
in writing. − the eu’s emissions trading system (eu ets) is one of the cornerstones of our climate policy. its creation demonstrated that the eu could be at the forefront of tackling climate change and reducing industrial greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective way. however, since the creation of the eu ets, there are still imbalances, such as a significant surplus of allowances due to the over-allocation of credits in the first two rounds of the ets and a substantial in-flow of external emission reduction credits from the clean development mechanism (cdm). the main issue – backloading – means delaying the auctions of some allowances, which should be a temporary measure and not a solution to the problem. that is why i support the rapporteur’s assertion of bringing certainty to the markets and helping the eu avoid missing its carbon reduction targets. i welcome too the fact that the report acknowledges that many eu industries have invested in clean technologies and that it is pertinent to send a clear message to the world that this is the kind of economic growth that we want to promote in europe. i therefore voted in support of the report.
in writing. − i voted ‘yes’ to this report because i believe that the european union emissions trading system is a key tool for reducing the industrial emissions of the eu in a cost-effective way.
mr president, in a borderless europe we quite obviously need to plan for cross-border health threats. this is a very necessary report which i fully supported. the absence of an eu system for cross-border health threats was keenly felt in the past crises, already referred to by mr tannock, namely the h1n1 pandemic in 2009 and the e. coli bacteria in 2011. in 2011 the commission submitted a proposal for a decision establishing measures and structures for the effective protection of citizens throughout the european union from a wide range of border threats to health. these were identified and that was the whole purpose of it. the legislative report was adopted unanimously in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and that is no mean feat in itself. so i particularly welcome the establishment of a coordinated and coherent communication strategy, the independence of experts acting as early warning systems, the assurance that personal data will be protected, enhanced cooperation and knowledge-sharing with the world health organization in third countries, the establishment of a regular dialogue between the commission and parliament in the case of serious cross-border health threats and respect for the principles of subsidiarity, which are absolutely vital.
i scríbhinn. − le ráig den bhaictéar e.coli i dtuaisceart na heorpa sa bhliain 2011, cailleadh roinnt daoine agus cruthaíodh anbhá i measc an phobail. ba léir ag an am sin go raibh gá le breis comhordaithe ar leibhéal ae chun muintir an aontais a chosaint ó réimse leathan bagairtí trasteorann ar shláinte an duine. chuige sin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na mbeart i dtaca le leathnú a dhéanamh ar an sásra comhordaithe i dtaca le galair theagmhálacha agus bagairtí ar shláinte ó fhoinsí bitheolaíocha, ceimiceacha nó timpeallachta, agus tacaím go háirithe leis an moladh atá ann maidir le bearta a chur i bhfeidhm ionas go mbeifí in ann ‘cás sláinte éigeandála eorpach’ a aithint d’fhonn is go mbeifí in ann fáil níos tapúla ar chóir leighis agus ar sheirbhís éigeandála comhordaithe a chinntiú.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal as it establishes measures and structures for the effective protection of citizens throughout europe from a wide range of cross-border threats to health. through this proposal the hope is to ‘extend the early warning and response system to cover all serious cross-border threats to health’. recent events have shown the lack of responsiveness by the european union with respect to health crises arising from misuse of medication or the sale of defective medical devices. an effective warning system would certainly have prevented such dramatic events.
mr president, ireland received a bailout because of the reckless behaviour of some financial institutions. we are aware of the situation revealed by the tapes from the anglo irish bank, which truly horrified people across ireland and across europe. the financial sector has received eur 1.6 trillion in public support between 2008 and 2011. an ftt would make sure that financial institutions make their contribution to society. there are concerns, of course, in particular what has been highlighted: relocation to non-participating member states. but i believe that the podimata report has actually tried to address these concerns. it is important that we actually look at the evidence and not just yield to lobbying by people from the financial services and the financial sector. i hope that the podimata report is the first step in an eu-wide financial transaction tax and ultimately will lead to a global financial transaction tax.
i scríbhinn. − ní mór dúinn aghaidh a thabhairt gan mhoill ar shaincheist na mbásanna agus na ngortuithe ar bhóithre na heorpa. gortaítear 250 000 duine go dona ar bhóithre ae gach uile bhliain agus i 2012 fuair 28,000 duine bás ar na bóithre. is minic gur fulaingt agus míchumas ar feadh an tsaoil a bhíonn i ndán dóibh siúd a ghortaítear go dona. tá sé i gceist ag an rún seo laghdú de 40% ar ghortuithe a bhaint amach idir 2014 agus 2020 agus cosaint a thabhairt d’úsáideoirí leochaileacha bóithre cosúil le coisithe agus rothaithe – lena bhfuil 50% de bhásanna ar bhóithre agus cuid maith gortuithe i mbailte i gceist. ní mór go gcuirfeadh seirbhísí sláinte na mballstát béim ar leith ar chúram tar éis timpiste agus ní foláir freisin feabhas a chur ar sheirbhísí éigeandála agus garchabhrach chun go laghdófaí na drochghortuithe ar bhóithre an aontais.
mr president, since the right wing orbán government came to power, it has amended the constitution four times in order to limit democratic rights, limit freedom of speech and whip up nationalist sentiment. resting on openly racist and far-right forces, it is attempting to consolidate a dictatorial regime. on the one hand, it is trying to limit the ability of people to fight back against its attacks on workers’ rights, healthcare and education, and, on the other hand, it is attempting to divide and rule and blame the most vulnerable sections of society, for example the roma people, over 6% of the population, who face horrible discrimination and racist attacks and who are amongst the poorest layers of society. homeless people have also been criminalised, with over 2 000 people arrested simply for having nowhere to sleep other than the streets. a mass struggle to defend democratic rights is necessary. it should also take up and challenge the neoliberal policies that these undemocratic attacks are helping to implement. a new left anti-austerity force with a socialist programme needs to be built to struggle against neoliberalism and for real democratic rights.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the mccarthy report laying down the principles for structural reform of the european banking sector, in advance of the commission’s proposals due in the autumn. the fundamental aim of european-led banking reform must a safe, stable, effective and efficient banking system that meets and serves the needs of the real economy, in particular smes and start-ups. we must break the link between bank debt and sovereign debt and remove the risk to public finances caused by banks being too big to fail. there must be a fundamental overhaul in banking culture which for too long has been dominated by excessive and indeed irresponsible risk-taking. we need to separate banking activities that are essential for the real economy from more risky trading and investment activities, which have cost taxpayers approximately eur 1.6 trillion, or nearly 13 % of eu gdp, between 2008 and 2011. the commission should now come forward with a draft directive for comprehensive structural reform of the european banking sector, based on the principles set out in this resolution.
in writing. − i voted ‘yes’ to this report because i believe that it is essential that reform of the eu’s banking structure delivers a safe, stable and efficient banking system that serves the needs of a real economy.
madam president, the dictatorial closure of the ert, the shutting down of the broadcaster’s tv and radio stations, the sacking of 2 650 workers all represents a dictatorial attack on workers’ rights and conditions and on basic democratic rights. it comes after the government has declared every major strike in the last six months to be illegal and has tried to force workers to go to work. it is another sign of the arrogant and dictatorial nature of this government. the samaras-led coalition, the capitalist class it represents, will use any means at its disposal to pursue the class war which it is waging against the greek people, regardless of whether that means tearing up the constitution. all of this is, in reality, fully backed up by the gangsters in the troika. i salute the working people in greece who occupy the buildings, who organise mass protests, who went on strike. i wish them well in building a movement to force the samaras government back; that can lay the basis for bringing this government down, replacing it with a genuine left-wing government, tearing up the memorandum, refusing to pay the debt and implementing socialist policies, to have real change in greece.
mr president, when the revelations about prism etc. broke, the phrase ‘with friends like these, who needs enemies?’ came to mind and certainly i think that there is an onus on the united states authorities to explain what happened, preferably by either president obama or mr kerry coming before this house, so that we can have an open discussion. secondly, i do not agree with people who say that we should postpone dialogue with the united states, either at tld level or at ttip level, in relation to the forthcoming partnership agreement. i think this shows that there is an urgent need to have the specific discussions between members of this house and their counterparts in the united states which the tld offers. also i would say that when we discuss issues of breaches of human rights right across the world, be it in north korea, iran or elsewhere, the one point we always make is that we need to maintain dialogue. dialogue is the way we will solve this problem, not postponement.
mr president, i find many of the expressions of shock and outrage by member state governments quite disingenuous to say the least. we have heard expressions of outrage and calls for the suspension of eu-us trade talks from the heads of states. espionage is a trade as old as governments and major eu member states do it too, targeting other countries to the extent that their resources allow. so not only do eu countries’ cries of outrage ring hollow, they also fly in the face of the subservient and extremely disproportionate responses shown here today. mr snowden’s personal courage shed light on us spying methods that eu leaders now decry and, instead of providing even a modicum of assistance to the whistle-blower, they seem to bend over backwards to aid the us in their chase. when faced with the rumours that he might be aboard the bolivian president’s aircraft, the european countries hindered the passage of a presidential plane, forcing it to land and searching it. this is meek hypocrisy which will certainly not be met with a repentant us government.
mr president, the revelations of the scale of us spying on millions of citizens in europe give a whole new meaning to the term ‘special relationship’. this is a special relationship built on the monitoring of millions of our communications every single month. it is farcical that the us national security agency undoubtedly has a copy of the european mandate for the eu-us trade agreement whereas most meps are not allowed to see it and no ordinary citizens are allowed to access it. at the very least, negotiations have to be suspended until a full investigation takes place. edward snowden’s current predicament is reminiscent of a chapter from leon trotsky’s autobiography called ‘a planet without a visa’. shame on the european leaders like françois hollande, who like to talk about human rights but cower before the power of us imperialism! their hypocrisy is galling. they condemn the spying but then they block a flight carrying bolivian president evo morales because of a false … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner barnier and speakers from all sides of the house have pointed out the need to complete the digital single market. indeed, it is a sine qua non for the development of european economies. people have referred, and rightly so, to the need for full digitalisation of the public sector, development of e-health, e-commerce and particularly to making high-speed broadband available right across europe. a special mention concerning e-commerce: trust has been mentioned and that is absolutely vital. we need to encourage people to trade online, and smes to trade online, but we have to put the tools there to give them confidence to do so. also, i would like to point to one thing which is happening in my constituency and has now spread worldwide, which i launched here in the european parliament on 29 january, called coderdojo. it is a mentoring programme to help young people develop skills of coding and programming because we have a great shortage of that expertise in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur for her important and comprehensive report. i think it is important because, in the middle of all the debate about austerity, about six-packs and two-packs, esm and efsf, sometimes we forget about real people, about ordinary people and how they are living with the impact of the current crisis. some of those people are being asked to pay an unacceptably high price and that unacceptably high price is for them, their children and their elderly parents. in some countries there is inadequate care provision; sometimes, there is virtually none. that is the reality of people’s lives and while we continue to debate and speak of austerity policies, we often forget, or at least we seem to accept, that some people suffer. the question is: are we prepared to let vulnerable people wait and wait, to be denied access to care. the answer to that is ‘yes’, because it is happening. in some countries, such as greece, systems have broken down. in other countries, like my own – ireland – the health system is severely stretched. it is fracturing in places and some people are paying a very high price. just last saturday i spent one hour with the carers’ representative from my own region. she is extremely concerned about the mental and physical health of family carers and she told me that, in the region, not since january has one care package been approved. not even one. that does not mean that people’s lives are immediately threatened, but it does mean two things. it means, first of all, that those who need care simply do not get it. they lose their dignity, and their quality of life is severely compromised, particularly for those with mobility or disability issues. they lose their independence and they lose any choice or control over their own lives. just imagine if that happened to us. how would we deal with that? and then the informal carers that the commissioner spoke of are under unbearable pressure, stretched beyond limits with little or no assistance, no respite and real evidence of serious impacts on mental and physical health. as jean said in her report, we need to carry out assessments of the social impact of austerity measures and how they affect people’s lives and we need to stop focusing entirely on fiscal stability and also look at access and quality of care.
mr president, it was aristotle who said that you can judge a society by the way in which it treats its most vulnerable citizens. what judgment would he pass on europe today, when you have governments and eu leaders driving austerity policies that condemn the poor, the elderly, minority groups and people with disabilities to poverty and increasing hardship in order to protect the interests of the bankers, the bond holders and big business? the irish government, the star pupil of austerity according to the commission, has waged war on the most vulnerable people. it has deliberately targeted support and services for people with disabilities and children with learning difficulties. many here will cry crocodile tears and give out about how unfair all this is, while their parties at home will say there is no alternative: we have to vote for cuts. we have had enough of this hypocrisy. austerity is not inevitable. it is not unavoidable. it is a political choice to protect some at the expense of others. i salute those people with disabilities, older people, and other vulnerable groups who have been to the fore in campaigning against austerity right across europe.
mr president, first of all, i want to commend the rapporteur for the excellent work that has been done on this report. there is no doubt that the crisis has had a disproportionate impact on the most vulnerable of our society, the elderly, children living in poverty, people with a disability and migrants. indeed, the crisis is forcing more and more people into the margins and making them more vulnerable. in that respect, i welcome the increase in the fund for european aid for the most deprived. i will be able to deal with that as rapporteur for that report. the health and social care sector is also a major employer. we need to remember that there are currently nearly three million jobs in this sector and cedefop reckon that there will be seven million by 2020. we need to ensure that this is decent work. i welcome very much what the commissioner has said about social investment, but i believe that we need to go further. president barroso’s announcement yesterday in relation to the partial thawing of a restrictive approach to member states’ public investment was welcome, but i would like to have reassurance that this will incorporate care services that are co-funded by the esf. i think it is important that we implement the recommendations of this report so that we can work towards achieving the eu 2020 targets.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, jean lambert, for her wonderful work on this report, and also marian harkin, our own mep, who works very hard on behalf of carers. carers are the forgotten workers, the people who look after their loved ones, seeking to create better value for money by using really limited resources effectively. they want to continue to prioritise service quality and continuity for the most vulnerable and they help to deliver strategic improvements in public policy. every one euro spent on respite saves five euros in institutional care. carers in ireland provide 3.7 million hours a week. these groups are dependent on financial support from fundraisers and a wide range of charities and local fundraising efforts. so funding for carers should be valued, evaluated, costed and red-circled, with built-in reviews. carers need a break.
madam president, article 26(3) of the universal service directive provides that ‘member states shall ensure that calls to the single european emergency number “112” are appropriately answered and handled in a manner best suited to the national organisation of emergency systems’. citizens need to feel secure, they need to feel confident when they ring 112, because it could literally be a matter of life or death. therefore we have to be able to guarantee the quality of the service. i believe the only way we can guarantee the quality of the service is to gather and publish data on how well it works. in that context i would like to ask the commission: have the commission or member states compiled data on the time and effectiveness of answering and handling calls to 112 and other national emergency numbers for each member state? how does the commission ensure the effectiveness of answering and handling 112 calls as compared to national emergency numbers? finally, commissioner, for whatever data we have, did the methodology used guarantee the independence and objectivity of the comparison and where has that relevant data been published?
madam president, like other speakers here this morning, i want to raise the problem of awareness of 112 numbers, because one out of five irish people quoted an incorrect number when asked whether they knew what number to dial in an emergency. while the level of awareness has increased over the past few years we do need to keep spreading the word about this very simple and potentially life-saving three-digit number, especially as increasing numbers of young people are leaving to work and study on the continent. the commission must remain alert to implementation shortcomings and take action to broaden access to alternatives to voice calls for disabled users. mobile network coverage gaps in remote and rural areas, as mentioned by other colleagues, remain an issue of serious concern. i wish, finally, to pay tribute to my colleague, ms sehnalová, for her work on automated vehicle calls in case of accidents and urge the commission to act upon her conclusions.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht is ábhar an-tábhachtach é seo go háirithe maidir le daoine a bhíonn ag taisteal agus b’fhéidir gan aon ghaolta nó aon chairde acu mar gur féidir leo glaoch ar an uimhir 112 má bhíonn siad i ndainséar. dá bhrí sin tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh níos mó aird dírithe ar an uimhir seo. fáiltím roimh an méid a dúirt an coimisinéir hahn faoi na hiarrachtaí atá á ndéanamh aige, agus a bheidh á ndéanamh aige amach anseo, chun níos mó aird a dhíriú ar an uimhir 112. tá sé sin an-tábhachtach. freisin, mar a dúirt fiona hall, caithfimid é a leathnú amach i dtreo is go bhfreastalóidh sé ar na daoine a bhfuil máchail orthu, go háirithe na daoine atá bodhar. sin pointe an-tábhachtach. an pointe a rinne hannu takkula: tá súil go mbeidh an tseirbhís ar fáil sna príomhtheangacha – béarla, fraincis agus gearmáinis – agus b’fhéidir é a leathnú amach go dtí na teangacha eile níos déanaí.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir ar an tuarascáil seo. tá mé an-sásta leis an toradh deireanach: 483 i bhfabhar. is tromlach maith é sin. i think as a result of this vote the ball is very much now in the court of the americans to clear up the situation that has developed and which has caused outrage across europe. they must do that particularly to ensure that our citizens’ security is guaranteed and that we can stand over that. i am also pleased that we can now continue on with the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) because to try and put that aside would be an emotive rather than a practical step. now we can move forward. this is a good resolution.
in writing. − us relations with europe should be based on democratic values and principles, and mutual trust. the revelations about the us’s nsa surveillance programme have undermined this trust and it is now up to washington to rebuild it. i want to see full disclosure on the bugging and wire-tapping of eu offices and representatives by the us authorities, including the potential involvement of member states’ intelligence services. member states must push for full clarification and credible assurances from the us that these spying activities have been definitively ended. i do regret the rejection of s&d amendment no 2 which would have called on the commission to postpone negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement until the us authorities have fully disclosed the details of their spying activities. parliament’s committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs should now investigate this issue in full and report back by the end of the year.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil le mo ghrúpa sna leasuithe go léir ar an tuarascáil seo – le heisceacht amháin. is é sin an vóta deiridh. staonamar sa vóta deiridh, mar déantar tagairt do laghdú ar an líon feisirí do thíortha éagsúla, agus maidir le héirinn sin laghdú ó dháréag go dtí a haon déag. bhí cúig fheisire déag againn blianta ó shin. chuaigh sé síos go trí cinn déag; anois dáréag agus an bhliain seo chugainn aon déag. cá stopfaidh sé! deirtear go bhfuil sé seo á dhéanamh in ainm ‘degressive proportionality’, ach dar liomsa is ‘depressive disproportionality’ atá i gceist. dá bhrí sin nílimid sásta leis agus go háirithe, mar a dúirt an feisire anderson, é a bheith ag teacht chomh déanach – níos lú ná bliain amach ó na toghcháin. níl sé féaráilte do na feisirí ná d’éinne.
in writing. − the fine gael meps abstained on the final vote on the report on practical arrangements for the holding of the european elections in 2014, by andrew duff (a7-0219/2013). this report referred to a parliament resolution of 13 march 2013 on the composition of the parliament with regard to the elections in 2014, calling for a reduction of ireland’s european parliament seats to 11. fine gael meps cannot accept this report, and by extension chose to abstain on the final vote of mr duff’s report.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus na treoracha go léir a thug ár ngrúpa dúinn a leanúint. vótáil mé ar son an ghrúpa i ngach uile chás. gan dabht ar bith is tuarascáil mhaith í, agus cinnte tá sé in am dúinn rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi iompar rialtas na hiorua maidir le táirgí talmhaíochta san aontas. nuair a chuirtear an cheist: cén fáth go bhfuil siad á dhéanamh seo? an freagra ná: go bhfuilimid róbhog leo. tá a lán de na buntáistí acu a bhaineann le bheith ina mball den aontas eorpach, ach níl siad freagrach ag deireadh báire d’aon rud. dá bhrí sin caithfimid féachaint ar an ábhar seo – ach ar a lán rudaí eile freisin – i dtreo is go mbeidh an rialtas san iorua agus na tíortha eile freagrach don rud a dhéanann siad agus go dtuigeann siad gur ceart cothrom na féinne a thabhairt dúinne.
mr president, this is an extremely important topic on which we had a very good discussion this morning. completing the digital single market is a sine qua non for the development of the economy in europe and getting the jobs and growth which are so necessary post the recession, which we hope will happen very soon. i myself am involved in the data protection regulation. that is obviously a very important aspect of this whole question: guaranteeing citizens’ data protection while also striking a proper balance so that businesses can flourish, particularly, encouraging the development of e-commerce and creating the trust and vehicles by which that can be developed. it is a big task, but it is crucial if we are to create the united europe that we want.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé le mo ghrúpa sna moltaí go léir anseo – le heisceacht amháin. sin aithris (b), mar déanann sé tagairt ansin do vat agus an ráta céanna a bheith ar fáil trasna na heorpa ar fad. ní aontaíonn mo thír leis sin, dá bhrí sin staonamar sa vóta sin. ach é sin ráite, mar a dúirt an coimisinéir hahn ar maidin nuair a bhíomar ag plé an ábhair seo: is cuid lárnach de straitéis 2020 go ndéanfaimid ár ndícheall chun bochtanas a laghdú san aontas. ba chóir go bhfeicfimis a lán dul chun cinn á dhéanamh chun déileáil leis an bhfadhb sin idir seo agus 2020. ba mhaith liom díriú ar ábhar amháin, agus is é sin an t-aos óg. tá a lán díobh dífhostaithe faoi láthair, agus cuirim fáilte roimh an gcás go bhfuil straitéis againn anois de bharr an mff chun plé leis an bhfadhb sin atá ag an aos óg.
in writing. − the crisis has resulted in a relentless attack on rural communities. rural infrastructures, transport systems and support for rural communities have been cut back. basic services, such as access to care, are no longer easily available or affordable. rural communities are faced with the twin problems of a lack of stable and meaningful employment opportunities and increased depopulation, with young people and young families leaving rural areas. those left behind, particularly the elderly; low-income households and the disabled are particularly vulnerable to social isolation, loneliness and in many cases increased poverty. the economic and social disadvantages facing rural communities are significant contributory factors to the increase in suicides, particularly among men in rural areas. according to a recent irish study, men are generally three times more likely to take their own lives than women and rural populations are more at risk of suicide than urban communities. isolation and loneliness were particular problems with the recession and cuts to care for health and support services exacerbating the problem. i welcome the recommendations in this report in relation to increased focus on access to care for vulnerable groups and particularly urge authorities to ensure access to vital services in rural areas.
in writing. − i voted for this report which speaks out on the effects of the crisis on the most vulnerable in our society in terms of access to care, support services and healthcare. there is growing evidence that social inequality is continuing to develop within parts of the eu due to a deteriorating situation for already vulnerable groups, where many of the poorest are becoming poorer. this vote also conveys a message about the need to ensure that austerity measures do not undermine eu values and prevent the most vulnerable citizens, such as undocumented migrants, children from poor families and the homeless, from being able to access healthcare, care services and basic living support.
a uachtaráin, is dóigh liom gur thug údar an rúin, charles tannock, an-acoimre ar an gcás seo. an méid a dúirt sé, bhí sé údarásach, bhí sé oideachasúil agus bhí sé féaráilte. is dóigh liom dá gcuirfimis ceist ar shaoránaigh na heorpa ag fiafraí díobh cá bhfuil djibouti, nach mbeadh cliú dá laghad ag an gcuid is mó díobh. is ait é sin, mar tá sé lonnaithe in áit an-tábhachtach, straitéiseach sa domhan. sin an fáth go bhfuil suim chomh mór sin ag na tíortha móra ann. is ceart freisin a rá go bhfuil dul chun cinn de shaghas déanta acu ó fuair siad neamhspleáchas ón bhfrainc, agus go háirithe na toghcháin a bhí acu i mí feabhra – mar a dúirt an t-uasal tannock agus an t-uasal šťastný. bíodh sin ráite, tá fadhbanna móra ann maidir le cearta sibhialta agus is dóigh liom gur ceart dúinn níos mó brú a chur orthu go háirithe maidir le foréigean i gcoinne mná agus príosúnaigh pholaitiúla a ligean saor.
mr president, can i just endorse my colleague’s comments about procedure, and also on the situation in camp ashraf? we accept that there is urgency in all these proposals but we believe that ashraf represents a particular situation. just to remind you, colleagues: on 1 september, 52 residents were shot dead by iraqi forces, some at point blank range and some lying on hospital beds waiting for operations. hostages have been taken and we have no information about them. so our plea is that we should debate this vital issue. we need to have a resolution so that we can have a thorough investigation, so that the perpetrators are brought to justice and safeguards put in place and, indeed, so that member states accept responsibility and give residents some form of refugee status in their country. i would therefore propose that we vote between ashraf or the decision of the conference of presidents. the order does matter and i beg colleagues to support my proposal.
mr president, i bow to your expertise on this but perhaps i could ask a question on the procedure. my understanding was that a group can reject the conference of presidents’ proposal and therefore put forward its own idea – which we have just done – and that we vote on that first.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, in 2007 the un rapporteur for the right to food described the diversion of arable land to the production of biofuels as a crime against humanity. he was right then, and it is still true today. there is no question that biofuel production bears an important responsibility for the massive price hikes which have thrown millions into hunger and poverty. ngos have explained that the amount of land required to fill a family car once with biofuel would provide enough food for a child for 200 days. yet more than eur 6 billion is spent every year to subsidise this destructive business. in the eu, big money means big lobbying, and so we have former fianna fáil minister and current lobbyist dick roche writing to meps calling for these proposals to be watered down. we also have his former party colleague, commissioner máire geoghegan-quinn, who has just approved eur 1 billion in support for bio-based industries. the winners are agri-business and the losers are those thrown off their land and those affected by deforestation and hunger. i will be voting in favour of the amendment which i tabled with other meps of the left calling for the deletion of the 10% target that has acted as an enormous stimulus for first generation biofuels.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for her presentation and her work. this is clearly a technical debate, but it is also a very emotional and emotive debate, because hunger and our concerns around clearance of forest are there. but can i just say, in terms of the technical side, that i was troubled last week when i heard one of the commission experts say at a hearing that the models in iluc are not certain. to put something mandatory into legislation which is based on uncertain modelling is something that i would be very fearful of supporting. like other speakers, i accept that we need to look at iluc. but i wonder: in other productions, do we look at iluc? for example, in cap reform, we have just agreed that farmers will place 5% of their land into an ecological focus area and, indeed, rising to 7%. there is an iluc factor there, too. i think we need to address this issue, but to realise that the fundamental question is this: land needs to produce food, fuel and fibre into the future and we need it to do more and better while polluting less. rather than be anxious about one policy direction or another, we need a holistic use of our land, across the european union.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá mar ní raibh an seans agam labhairt sa díospóireacht a bhí againn níos luaithe. níl aon chonspóid faoin díospóireacht seo mar a bhí againn sa díospóireacht níos luaithe agus bhí sé sásúil éisteacht leis an méid a bhí a rá leis an gcoimisinéir ag jerzy buzek agus ag judith merkies faoin ábhar seo. caithfimid an margadh inmheánach d’fhuinneamh a chríochnú – a luaithe a dhéanfaimid é is fearr dúinn é. as judith merkies pointed out, this is a great opportunity, particularly in relation to micro-generation. she said ‘small is beautiful’, and certainly if we can realise the principle she spoke of, that consumers can also become producers, that would be a fantastic achievement. to do that of course, as the commissioner pointed out, we would need to extend the grid and create what he called ‘highways of electricity’. there are 600 000 homes in ireland ready for this if we put the necessary structure in place.
mr president, i respect your right to call only five speakers under the catch-the-eye procedure, but is it possible for you to tell us now who the five are?
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht mo cheist a fhreagairt faoi phreab na súl. this is a very important topic and it is extraordinary, as commissioner reding pointed out, that equal pay for equal work was enshrined in our laws in 1957 and yet here are we are, 57 years later, with a pay gap of 16.2% between male and female across the european union. that simply is not fair and we must ensure that it is stopped. this issue has nothing to do with feminism: it has to do with fairness; it has to do with equality. it is also unacceptable that some member states have greater equality than others, and this matter must be brought to the attention of those that are negligent, so as to ensure that it is corrected. the economic recession is likely to be used to prolong this inequality, and that is something we must avoid. i also want to make the point that in some respects there is double discrimination, because society demands that women actually spend more, in the workplace and on social occasions, than men do – because of clothes, etc. that is also a factor.
mr president, coming from ireland i am particularly aware of the painful consequences of irresponsible lending, not only for the lives of individuals and their families but also for our economy. this directive brings in a set of new eu-wide standards for responsible mortgage lending which curtail risky behaviour on the part of creditors and borrowers alike. simple comparable information on loan conditions, a period of reflection prior to being bound to a mortgage, the ban on tying practices and the provisions on early repayments are only some of the provisions that will directly benefit our consumers. i am satisfied that our colleague’s work went beyond that and also addressed risk in terms of creditworthiness, variable-rate lending and arrears and foreclosure, with a view to preventing long-term indebtedness. the problems that stem from the property bubbles require a wide range of measures in the area of housing provision and financial regulation, and this is a key step. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. thank you indeed.
in writing. − i abstained on both reports by mep thein because ireland is not participating in either regulation. it does not have a matrimonial property regime, nor substantial property consequences of registered partnership within the meaning of the proposed regulations. participating in the regulations could have complex effects on property law generally and create substantial uncertainty in a range of property transactions.
in writing. − i voted ‘yesʼ to this report because if decisions regarding property have to be taken during a partnership or after it ends, the parties concerned face complex issues, especially in relation to justifications and applicable law. this report will bring more clarity to this complex area.
in writing. − i abstained on both reports by mep thein because ireland is not participating in either regulation. it does not have a matrimonial property regime, nor substantial property consequences of registered partnership within the meaning of the proposed regulations. participating in the regulations could have complex effects on property law generally and create substantial uncertainty in a range of property transactions.
mr president, i fully support this report. it is an excellent report and i would like to thank michael cramer for the excellent work he has done on it. as we know, transport is the backbone of the european economy. without it the tourism industry could not exist, manufacturers could not get their goods to market and life would be impossible. having said that, many challenges still lie ahead in terms of better alignment of research and innovation with transport policy. it is crucial that we reduce the impact of transport on climate change, while at the same time contributing to improving the health of eu citizens and their quality of life. we must not look negatively on the need to reduce the impact of transport on our environment, but rather see it as an opportunity, because jobs can be created in the r&d sector while at the same time we are meeting our environmental targets. i particularly welcome the fact that this report calls for better coordination and mobility of research in the eu, thus achieving a greater return on member states’ research budgets and avoiding duplication.
in writing. − i voted ‘yesʼ because i believe that small and medium-sized enterprises deserve particular attention and that stronger opportunities in research should be given to them, especially through streamlined procedures and the reduction of administrative burdens when applying for eu funding schemes.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, elena oana antonescu. indeed at one point it seemed that the issues of confidentiality and derogations would split the council and parliament and that an agreement would never be reached. as previous speakers have said, parliament has unsuccessfully called for many years for the need to strengthen procedural rights, stressing the need to strike the right balance between the freedom of justice and security. this report finally recognises an overarching principle of basic human and criminal law at eu level. despite the existence of common principles and minimum standards stemming both from the echr and the eu charter, provisions governing access to a lawyer vary significantly from one member state to another and this report introduces a level playing field and a measure of consistency. in a borderless europe, citizens have to be confident that their rights are fully respected and that their security is provided when they are travelling. the directive will be implemented in all member states, irrespective of their legal systems, ensuring the same standards all over europe, which is very welcome.
in writing. − i voted ‘yesʼ to this because i believe that an individual should be granted their rights before the start of any questioning, upon the carrying out of any procedural or evidence gathering act, and in the case of deprivation of liberty.
mr president, i welcome the ‘consumer first’ approach of this report. as previous speakers have said, the importance of the report cannot be overstated, in view of the fact that a mortgage is often the most important and longest financial commitment a family makes. mortgages are essential for access to house ownership, and 70% of the population in the eu actually have mortgages and own their own houses, and they are also of great economic importance. in 2009, mortgage credit amounted to eur 612 billion: that is 52.3% of eu gdp. the market grew, as we know, from 1998 to 2009 in almost all member states though, due to the economic crisis, there has been a decline since 2008. while i supported this report, i was unable, as an irish mep, to support amendment 117 because i believe that the interinstitutional agreement of 2011 should be respected. the aim of the proposed directive is to create a responsible, efficient, healthy and competitive pan-european mortgage market, and i believe it does this.
in writing. − i welcome parliament’s approval of the first ever piece of eu legislation in the field of mortgages and, in fact, on a retail banking product. it is clear that the 2001 voluntary european code of conduct on pre-contractual information has not worked and needs to be replaced by binding rules that apply across europe. a mortgage is the most important financial undertaking entered into by most individuals or couples during their lifetimes. this directive will help lead to a europe-wide market for mortgages and better consumer protection, including a ban on misleading advertising, clearer information about conditions and risks, the right to repay a loan early, as well as more strenuous obligations on lenders. it should bring an end to the irresponsible lending practices that contributed to the financial crisis in many member states, including my own, and further stabilise the housing market. i would now urge the council presidency to work with meps so that we can reach agreement on the full and proper transposition of this important directive into national legislation over the next two years.
mr president, i welcome this report, because it is very badly needed in order to enhance investor protection and confidence in the markets – and confidence is all important. the report would establish a common regulatory framework on market abuse to ensure the integrity of financial markets in the union. the proposal extends the scope of the market abuse framework, applying to any financial institution or instrument admitted to trading. as regards the penalties, we need a common, workable system of penalties. there will be no place, hopefully, as a result of this for market abusers to hide within the european union. previous speakers have referred to the sanctions and penalties. the regulation will lay down a set of administrative procedures, sanctions and fines to ensure a common approach in the member states. also, the directive will introduce a requirement for all member states to put in place effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions for the most serious insider-dealing and -trading and market manipulation offences. i think it is a good report, but the important thing is that it is workable.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo mar a rinne 658 feisire eile. gan dabht ar bith, cabhróidh na moltaí seo chun deireadh a chur leis an drochiompar agus na drochnósanna a bhí sna margaí. drochiompar a chabhraigh go mór leis an gcúlú eacnamaíochta a thabhairt isteach mar atá againn faoi láthair. buíochas le dia táimíd ag éalú as an gcúlú anois agus cabhróidh na moltaí sin leis sin chomh maith. most citizens are familiar with the activities of the banks which led to the economic recession: excessive mortgages, obscene bonuses, etc. not many are familiar with insider-dealing activities such as quote stuffing, layering and spoofing, but all these contributed to the economic recession. thankfully the proposals by ms mccarthy will help to deal with these practices, and i particularly welcome the strong fines that she is proposing of at least eur 15 million or 15% of annual turnover , whichever is the larger.
in writing. − the rampant speculation on the financial markets played a pivotal role in triggering the financial and economic crises that has dominated the world economy for the past five years. the brunt of these crises is being borne by ordinary working class people in europe and across the world. large sections of the financial sector have been "nationalised" as a means to turn private debt into public debt with the imposition of brutal austerity as a result. i am in favour of strong regulations that put speculators in the financial markets on a chain; rules on insider trading and market manipulation are certainly an important aspect of this. however, this is not enough. it is essential that there fundamentally change, not more cosmetic change, in the way the financial markets operate. this regulation still allows the covering up of information in order to preserve the 'stability of the financial system' and deemed to be what bankers and politicians consider the public interest. it would be in the public interest if the financial institutions and markets were to be nationalised and put under democratic control of working class people to guarantee full oversight and transparency and to redevelop the economy.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo chomh maith agus bhí an-mholadh ag dul do jerzy buzek as ucht an dea-obair atá á déanamh aige go háirithe ós rud é gur iar-uachtarán na parlaiminte é. is maith an rud é go ndéanfadh iar-uachtarán obair den sórt seo. gan dabht ar bith, tá sé an-tábhachtach go gcríochnóimid an margadh inmheánach d’fhuinneamh. chabhródh sé sin go mór le saoránaigh, ní hamháin fuinneamh a chur ar fáil dóibh, ach é a chur ar fáil ar phraghas níos ísle ná mar atá faoi láthair. bheadh sé sin an-tábhachtach amach anseo. bhí díospóireacht an-mhaith againn ar na moltaí seo aréir agus bhí gach duine beagnach d’aonghuth gur cheart na moltaí a thabhairt isteach chomh luath agus is féidir agus tá súil agam go dtarlóidh sé sin.
in writing. – i supported this report by mep buzek because, on the whole, i agree with the european commission’s principle that ‘the union needs an internal energy market that is competitive, integrated and fluid, providing a solid backbone for electricity and gas flowing where it is needed’. it is particularly vital that our strategic choices with regard to europe’s energy mix keep the consumer at their core. the combination of the european economic crisis and the increasing price of energy has hit many eu citizens hard, and any decisions we make must reflect this fact. this is particularly pertinent for ireland, an island nation which imports the vast majority of its energy needs. to that end, i applaud this report’s call for ‘greater participation on the part of consumers’ being facilitated by local cooperatives for renewable energy, which ‘will help consumers better understand and manage their energy consumption, and thereby become more flexible and responsive (from both a demand and a supply perspective), so that they can ‘strengthen access to renewables and generate the necessary financial investments’.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because we must continue to make sure that energy efficiency is at the very centre of many of our eu policies. that said, we are facing a severe challenge to meeting the objective of reducing the overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020, where policies fostering energy efficiency could and should play a stronger role. being energy-efficient is very important in terms of getting it right from the very start of new projects. it is far more cost-effective than simply trying to expensively refit many years later. energy efficiency improvements are decisive for european competitiveness and represent a win-win option in the fight against climate change. investing in energy efficiency measures can bring about immediate and tangible benefits for both households and business in industry, such as reduction of costs, creation of employment opportunities and growth, as well as an encouragement in the transition towards a low-carbon economy.
in writing. − i voted ‘yesʼ because energy efficiency improvements are decisive for european competitiveness and represent a win-win option in the fight against climate change.
mr president, i would like to fully support this report on developing an eu strategy on fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic-ionian basin. such a strategy would give a very welcome boost to the development of sustainable economic activities in the region, which will have a beneficial effect on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas. properly-managed fisheries provide employment in some of the most rural and remote parts of the european union and, when sensibly managed, this is a renewable resource that is very valuable in the fight against unemployment in many isolated parts of the eu. i wish the report and the strategy well.
in writing. − i monitored this report with interest, as my home country, like many others, has an active online gambling community, as well as a number of companies providing online gambling services. i supported the report, because the online gambling sector has existed in a sort of regulatory limbo for a number of years; therefore it is timely and appropriate that the eu institutions are engaging with this issue now. it is estimated that some seven million eu citizens access online gambling services, creating annual revenues of approximately eur 13 billion. i commend the rapporteur for his work on this dossier, and for achieving a successful outcome. i was pleased that close attention was paid to subsidiarity, i.e. that eu member states retain the right ‘to determine how the offer of online gambling services is to be organised and regulated at national level, and the right to enforce all measures they consider necessary against illegal gambling services, while observing the basic eu treaty principlesʼ.
in writing. − i support this report on the regulation of online gambling because i believe that self-regulation of the industry is not enough. this report is an important step towards effective eu monitoring and statutory control of online gambling.
in writing. − the adoption of the report ‘online gambling in the internal marketʼ is very significant for sport. sporting federations and gambling operators should include, in a code of conduct, a ban on betting on so-called negative events, such as yellow cards, throw-ins, corner kicks or penalty kicks, during a sports event. this report specifically calls on clubs to introduce a self-regulatory general ban on players, coaches, referees, medical and technical staff, and those having a direct influence on a sports event could not place bets on their own sports events. under the coordination of the commission, i also want to see greater cooperation at eu level on the prohibition of online betting illegally on match-fixing or junior sports competitions involving minors. we also clearly state that athletes need effective protection mechanisms to oppose corrupting influences, including the safeguarding of the moral and physical integrity of athletes, proper working conditions and the safeguarding of salaries or remunerations, including bans on participation at different levels of competition for sports organisations failing to fulfil regularly these obligations towards their athletes.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, when speaking of youth unemployment, the popular rhetoric of the moment is to speak of a ‘lost generation’, a generation without opportunity or hope. however, when meeting and talking with young people it is clear that no young person wishes to be labelled in this manner, or to be sidelined while the economic and social crisis and recovery is waited on to come to an end. the figures regarding unemployment among young people are horrifying. however, the situation is even worse than it seems. the true reality of unemployment has been masked by immigration, particularly in the case of my own country, ireland, and the large number of young people returning to, or staying in, the education system. there is also a tier of young graduates currently searching for work, who are highly qualified yet unable to secure meaningful unemployment, receiving social welfare assistance or registered as unemployed, which should be factored into the debate. the european union, member state authorities, educators, industry and policy makers have a collective responsibility and obligation to offer this generation more than the label of a lost generation, and to take them out of the limbo situation which they currently find themselves in. for the next eu strategy to be effective and respond to the needs of european citizens, it is essential that we as policy makers engage with young people. as highlighted by young people themselves, the rise in precarious forms of employment, with short-term and part-time contracts and unpaid work placement schemes often replacing existing jobs, is a significant obstacle for their generation at present. aside from the economic and social effects of the job crisis, it is also seriously impacting on young people’s capacity to lead independent and fulfilling lives. vulnerable groups and disadvantaged youth are at particular risk of social exclusion and being left behind both socially and professionally. i support the message in this report that, even with the best intentions for europe’s young people, very little has actually been done to definitively assist, support and empower them. we have had plenty of talk and plenty of proposals but these must now be turned into real action. we must adopt the two as we have to work for young people now, not at some undefined future point.
madam president, i have to say i find these discussions about youth unemployment in the plenary increasingly frustrating because you have one in four young people unemployed, none of the establishment parties or the commission can avoid saying something about the crisis, but none of them has an answer for the crisis. so what we have, again and again, is a peculiar mixture of crocodile tears, empty promises and policies that in reality amount to blaming young people for their own unemployment. this is a massive crisis for the young people who are out of work; it is a massive crisis for our societies, which are being drained of talents and skills with massive emigration; and it is a huge crisis for our economies where the cost of young people not in education, not in employment, not in training is estimated at eur 153 billion. the central problem here is not a skills mismatch, as some would have it, which in reality is placing the blame on young people, and the answer is not work-for-free schemes like the jobbridge scheme we have in ireland, or schemes we have in many countries across europe. just today, new figures came out that showed that the government itself in ireland employed over 200 people in this work-for-free scheme and then afterwards did not employ a single one of them in a proper job. it might be a bit obvious, but the problem here is that there are no jobs for young people and the solution is quite simple: to break with austerity policies, to break with the cutbacks and to invest in education, in training and in jobs. it is really that simple. you can choose to go along with austerity or you can break with austerity and actually provide jobs for young people.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank isabella lövin for her work as rapporteur on this important alignment report. there is no doubt that the european eel stock is at an historic low. in 2007 the european eel was included in the cites appendix ii and in 2009 eel was listed in the iucn red list of threatened species. the 2007 eu regulation requires each member state to implement individual management plans to achieve the objective of restoring the stock to sustainable levels – and i want to expand on ‘sustainable’ later. a range of measures included limiting fisheries, making it easier for fish to migrate through the rivers, and restocking suitable inland waters with young eel. regrettably, an irish management plan introduced a complete ban on eel fishing affecting the shannon, the corrib and lough erne and this ban is extremely unfair on fishermen as they have received no compensation for their loss of income. the ban is also extremely questionable as the eel stock in ireland has continued to decline in the period 2009-2011. sufficient numbers of eels were destroyed by the ardnacrusha hydroelectric station on the shannon, despite the efforts by the electricity supply board to trap and transport them above the turbines. a positive example of how to manage the stock in a sustainable way is the lough neagh fishermen’s cooperative society in northern ireland. since the mid-1980s they have embarked upon a restocking programme from when they first had evidence of a decline in recruitment. finally, my group has decided to reintroduce a single amendment which was narrowly defeated in the committee on fisheries. it calls on the member states to consider support for fishermen to help them diversify in the event of any member state deciding to ban the fishing of eel. in conclusion i want to refer to the importance of sustainability, whether we speak about eels or about demersal or pelagic. but i think of pelagic and i think of mackerel. i would just remind the commissioner that in the committee on fisheries on 10 july she gave us a commitment that she would take the necessary action in relation to the north-east atlantic and the notification would be issued. i am not referring to atlanto-scandian herring, i am referring to mackerel. that decision was to have been taken, notification was to have been issued, before the summer break. it is a long summer and we have heard nothing since, commissioner.
mr president, allow me to thank mr barroso for an honest and reasonable speech. you used those words yourself when you spoke. let us not disrespect our citizens: they are much more sophisticated than many members, and particularly the previous speaker, realise. allow me to cite the eurobarometer survey that this parliament itself conducted: our citizens realise that peace and freedom of movement are two of the european union’s most positive achievements. a large majority say that membership of the european union is a good thing. ireland despite our difficulties – and many have spoken about them – is particularly positive: 66% say eu membership is a good thing. seven europeans in ten – and this is important – think that what brings us together is much more significant than what separates us. however, one particular finding should give great heart to those of us who know that europe has a future: a clear majority believe that, by 2025, eu citizens will be more involved in european affairs than they currently are. so there is a future and we have to build it. that means we have to solve the problems which, we know, exist today. rather than moaning about them and getting up here all the time to say how bad things are, let us get on and cure the problems. member states are doing this with difficulty themselves. the european union has to assist them. so let us continue the work, and let us do it not because there is an election coming but because we are elected to do it and to serve our citizens.
in writing. – statistics are showing minute economic growth and a slight decrease in unemployment; although they could act as signs that we are coming out of recession, these are, however, just statistics. to ordinary citizens we are in just the same situation as we were when we entered the recession. with unemployment stabilising and statistics showing minor economic growth, there are some signs of recovery in the eu. but it is an incredibly feeble recovery. this recovery is a numerical one and the struggling people in europe have not yet seen improvements. many of our citizens have no jobs or opportunities, there have been cuts in social protection, and public services such as pensions, education and health. the austerity agenda is not working and is making recovery worse. however, there is a viable alternative. it involves making the multinationals, the banks and the rich pay their fair share in solving the economic crisis they caused, whilst stimulating economic growth through targeted investment and maintaining the living standards of people on low incomes so that economic growth happens. that is how we will start to see real recovery.
i scríbhinn. − tá éifeacht uafásach ag na beartais déine ar na pobail a labhraíonn teangacha mionlaigh agus teangacha atá i mbaol. in éirinn, tá na scoileanna gaeltachta ag fulaingt, le hardú cóimheas daltaí le múinteoir, ciorruithe i liúntais na múinteoirí, iompair scoile agus deontais eile. is é an toradh air seo go bhfuil todhchaí na ndaltaí á chur i mbaol. tá pobail na dteangacha mionlaigh ag fulaingt leis na ciorruithe sna seirbhísí poiblí, dífhostaíocht agus dúnadh tionscal áitiúil. tá comhshreachailt ag teastáil ó na daoine ar fad atá buailte leis na beartais déine, chun deireadh a chur leis na ciorruithe agus le haghaidh plean infheistíochta poiblí chun creatlach a chur ar fáil i gcomhair ráthaíocht a thabhairt do chearta na ndaoine a labhraíonn teangacha mionlaigh.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that endangered and lesser used languages must be supported to preserve the richness of our society. the specific objective of this report was to examine how best to use linguistic diversity as a way to stimulate creativity and innovation. languages have the capacity to promote the local and regional heritage in the eu context, thus contributing to economic and social development and constituting an irreplaceable raw material for the cultural and creative industries. an increasing number of endangered languages are threatened or disappearing. this own-initiative report thus aims to examine the situation of these languages in europe, to raise awareness at european level about the implications of their disappearance and the need to react and take measures to preserve europeʼs rich linguistic heritage. as an irish mep i know all too well the importance of protecting lesser used languages and was happy to support this motion as a result.
in writing. − i voted ‘yesʼ to this because it is an important tool for framing and assessing agricultural policies, as each year it collects data on the income and outputs of a sample of agricultural holdings that are representative of the eu.
in writing. − i support this report, because i believe that the process of strengthening relations between the eu and cape verde will undoubtedly contribute to improving the operation of justice and increase respect for basic freedoms.
in writing. − i voted ‘yesʼ to support the provision of more opportunities in education and training and to invest in young people, which in turn will have multiplying effects on growth in europe.
in writing. − i voted ‘yesʼ because i believe that initiatives are needed to promote entrepreneurship and to retain as many existing jobs as possible, and measures should also be taken to encourage entrepreneurship to create new jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is aimed at confronting member states with their responsibility to fully and correctly apply the letter and spirit of the services directive.
mr president, i would like to make three quick points. first of all, i would like to thank baroness ashton and commissioner georgieva for the work they have done to date. secondly, i would like to say that there must be an inquiry. the international community must initiate a formal inquiry into what happened on 21 august in relation to chemical weapons which killed 1 400 people. whatever else happens, that must be investigated. we must also ensure that the humanitarian aid that is required is provided and that we meet our part in that. i know that, to date, we have been doing that and in part meeting it from the neighbourhood instrument, which brings me to my third point. do we remember srebrenica? who was it sorted out the problem in srebrenica? here this is in our neighbourhood, being funded in part by our neighbourhood humanitarian aid facility, and we do not have the capacity to deal with it: we leave it to the russians and the americans. this is why the question of a common defence needs to be revisited. that may sound a strange thing coming from someone who represents a neutral country, but i have set my views out in a document called ‘beyond neutrality’. we need to have that debate.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the brutal scenes of 1 000 people butchered in one week of show trials, of the whipping up of sectarianism tell the true story about what is happening in egypt. the bloody repression is not simply aimed at crushing the muslim brotherhood: it is about shutting down all dissent and closing down the spaces to organise that were opened by the revolution. this is demonstrated by the fact that four of the leaders of the strike and occupation of the suez steel works have been arrested on the orders of their boss. before general al-sisi’s military dictatorship, it was morsi who was prepared to use the security forces against striking workers. the military, mubarak and morsi have nothing to offer except repression and poverty. the magnificent protest of millions, on the other hand, that toppled mubarak and then morsi, show what is possible. this movement needs to build its own independent leadership, able and willing to fight for workers and poor, to take power into their own hands.
a uachtaráin, is fear mór peile mise agus i gcursaí peile bíonn peileadóirí spórtúla agus peileadóirí neamhspórtúla ann. cloíonn peileadóirí spórtúla leis na rialacha agus ní chloíonn peileadóirí neamhspórtúla. croitheann siad do lámh agus tugann siad cic san uillinn duit ag an am ceánna. seo díreach atá á dheanamh ag an rúis ar a gcomharsana – tá sí ag déanamh bullaíochta ortha agus ag an am céanna ag ligean uirthi gur cairde iad léi. dá bhrí sin, tá sé in am dúinn an cárta dearg a thabhairt don rúis mar atáimid ag déanamh anseo anocht. it was shakespeare who said one can smile and smile and be a villain. this is exactly what mr putin and his russian colleagues are doing. smiling to the cameras, pretending that they are abiding by international law while at the same time behaving in a most villainous way towards their neighbours. this is not acceptable and i think we have a right and duty to say so here tonight. breaking the helsinki principles, as my colleague mr brok said, using energy prices as a tool. this is not good enough. when someone is bullied by someone stronger and bigger than themselves, it is very difficult for them to fight back. the only way that they can do so is by getting the support of someone equally big as the bully and we are the partner who can do that for our eastern partners. i think we have to stand up firmly and strongly to russia and ensure that this type of behaviour is not acceptable so that these countries can exercise their sovereign right to independence now and forever. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the red card is what a player gets in football when he breaches the rules in a particularly unacceptable manner. it means that he gets suspended for a certain amount of time. here, we are talking about russia: we must stand up to them, tell them that this is not good enough and use whatever methods we can to bring them to heel. that is what it means.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to thank the commissioner for his answer, which is a disappointing one. in my opinion, commissioner, we need a european strategy on health and safety at work for many reasons, and we need it now. when there is no strategy, national programmes may not continue, or at least not continue with the same intensity. implementation can so easily slip and, crucially, the fostering of a preventive culture is not seen as a priority. that culture of prevention, of assessing risks with the engagement of all relevant stakeholders, is to me a central part of any health and safety strategy and if that slips in member states it is so difficult to bring it back. also, when there is no eu strategy, we have no uniformity, we have no implementation at european level and we have no added value. the european dimension then becomes less important and, as with the culture of prevention, if it slips down the agenda, it is difficult to get it back. there is a real temptation, in times of fiscal cutbacks, to cut corners and it is often forgotten that good health and safety policy is an investment and not a cost. it is clear that, across all the member states, people are under much greater stress. the recent death of a young intern in the financial services sector in london, with questions linked to overtime, is an example of this. the chartered institute of personnel and development has said there is an urgent need for a change of culture in the financial services industry regarding working hours and conditions. my question is: where is the prevention culture? if we do not have an eu strategy, it does not help. in ireland at the moment, junior doctors are going to strike before the end of this month over the non-implementation of the working time directive: this is bad for patients and bad for doctors. i know we are not talking here about implementation of directives, but we do not have a health and safety ethos, we do not have a preventive culture and, again in this context, i believe an eu strategy would be of immense help. as i said before, people in general are under greater stress due to job insecurity, precarious work, zero-hours contracts etc., and that greatly exacerbates psycho-social problems. an eu health strategy, if we had one, would help to manage this and i honestly think it is badly needed in this regard. finally, i welcome the agreement arising from the directive on electromagnetic fields but i re-echo the words of ms berès and mr őry: commissioner, what obstacles are in the way?
mr president, i share the concern of my colleagues in the committee on employment and social affairs about the delay in implementing and introducing a new health and safety strategy. commissioner, there are more than 5 000 deaths in the workplace each year: recently, 48 of them occurred in ireland and those included two children. there is a clear and urgent need for a new health and safety strategy. at this rate we will not have a new strategy in place by 2014, and the delay is unacceptable, particularly when we look at the reasons why we need this strategy. increased use of chemicals, ageing of the workforce, an increased incidence of musculoskeletal disorders, work-related cancers, and indeed stress, are all issues that could and should be addressed in a new strategy. health and safety is good, it is essential for workers. as has been said, it protects the social model. but it is also good for business. better health and safety contributes to better company performance, it improves staff well-being, it reduces absenteeism and staff turnover and it bolsters job satisfaction. rather than blame the crisis and use the crisis as an excuse for not implementing a health and safety strategy, we need to have a health and safety strategy which will be fit for purpose for the 21st century. commissioner, the delays have gone on long enough. it is time the eu lived up to its responsibilities and agreed a new strategy.
in writing. – is ceist thráthúil í seo agus iarraim ar an gcoimisiún aird ar leith a thabhairt sa straitéis eorpach um shláinte agus sábháilteacht ag an obair ar na deacrachtaí a bhíonn ag feirmeoirí eorpacha. is earnáil ar leith í earnáil ghuaiseach na talmhaíochta. cuireann feirmeoirí uaireanta fada isteach, is cuma cén aimsir a bhíonn ann, agus bíonn guaiseacha meicniúla, leictreacha, ceimiceacha agus bitheolaíocha chomh maith le bagairt na ngalar riospráide agus na zónóise i gceist leis an obair aonraithe a bhíonn ar siúl acu. ní haon ionadh, mar sin, go bhfuil ceisteanna sláinte agus sábháilteachta ar leith ann san earnáil talmhaíochta. tá seans níos airde ann go dtarlódh timpiste ar feirm ná ar láthair eile oibre agus tá an baol sin méadaithe arís toisc gur láithreacha cónaithe chomh maith le láithreacha oibre iad feirmeacha. tarlaíonn breis is 550 timpiste marfach in earnáil talmhaíochta an ae gach uile bhliain agus tá seans seacht n-oiread níos mó ann go bhfaighidh feirmeoir bás ar an láthair oibre ná gairmeacha beatha eile. is bunriachtanas gnó inmharthana talmhaíochta ar bith é an tsláinte agus an tsábháilteacht agus iarraim ar an gcoimisiún aitheantas a thabhairt do sin sa straitéis nua sláinte.
mr president, i am very pleased to welcome you back to the chair this morning and i am also delighted to have the opportunity to thank our ombudsman, mr diamandouros, for his service and work on behalf of european citizens. you and your office have dealt with maladministration in an open, structured, effective, balanced and transparent way. the office of the ombudsman, in my opinion, has been in good hands; you have introduced good practice and that inspires confidence in citizens. you have helped to bridge that gap, when we speak of the democratic deficit between citizens and the european institutions. i am very pleased that one of your key priorities has been to maintain a dialogue with stakeholders. people’s involvement with the eu is not just reduced to electing their meps once every five years; they want to play a more proactive role and assert and enjoy their rights. however, if citizens face too many obstacles in this process they become discouraged, resentful and mistrusting and your office has helped to simplify and streamline that process. so once again i want to thank you, i want to wish our new ombudsman, ms emily o’reilly, well in her new position. it is a real challenge, but as you have shown, mr diamandouros, a genuine commitment of service to citizens is the necessary solid foundation.
mr president, as our colleague mr boştinaru pointed out, it is most unusual in this house for unanimity to prevail, particularly in dealing with institutions of the eu, and i think today is the exception. it is primarily because of the good work that the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, has done over the last 10 years. as commissioner reding pointed out, mr diamandouros, you not only had the professionalism, but also the patience and the wisdom to do the job. having met you once or twice socially, i can see that you are ideally suited to the job because you have no ego, you are here to serve and you have done it in a dignified, low-key manner, which is ideal for the job you have had. well done and enjoy your retirement. i wish my fellow irish citizen, emily o’reilly, the best of luck as she takes up your job. you have made many progressive moves and i think you can be very proud of doing that. sixty-six percent of complaints are dealt with within one year, which is in marked contrast to what often happens in member states, where bureaucratic institutions often join ranks to frustrate citizens. so it was great they could come here and get their complaints dealt with quickly. you have also helped 22 000 citizens, either who complained or by giving them information, and, as marian harkin said, that helps certainly to close the democratic deficit. i also think this is a very important point: the ombudsman has asked complainants to make observations when dissatisfied with an institution’s reply, whereas previously they had to make a new complaint if they were not satisfied. i think that is very important as well. and also, your booklet: ‘problems with the eu? who can help you?’ that is also a great help to citizens. well done, good and faithful servant, and enjoy your retirement.
mr president, this was an important vote that we had in the european parliament and there is much to be welcomed, although we did not make as much progress as we would have liked to. but i want to welcome meps’ decisions to introduce indirect land use change as a mandatory factor to distinguish between good and bad biofuels when calculating greenhouse gas emission savings attributable to biofuels. i also welcome that meps voted to no longer incentivise first-generation biofuels but to encourage producers to shift to second-generation biofuels, using materials such as algae, straw and waste that do not create additional demands for land. i was disappointed that centre-right meps did not support the s&d proposal, as agreed by the ep’s committee on the environment, and limit to 5.5% the amount of food- and energy-based biofuels that can be counted towards achieving the 10% share, but instead voted for a 6% cap. i think it is time that the eu moved away from a policy that leads to famine, poverty, land grabs and climate change and towards one that promotes sustainable production of good biofuels, climate action, jobs and prosperity.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat agus molaim thú as ucht a rá go mbeidh tú dian ar dhaoine a théann thar fóir leis an am. ní dhéanfaidh mé é sin tá súil agam. bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don chuid is mó de na moltaí sa díospóireacht seo agus bhí mé ann ag an díospóireacht sa pharlaimint agus bhí an-díospóireacht againn cé go raibh sé beagáinín conspóideach ach ag an am céanna caithfear é sin a thuiscint. bhí moltaí ann nach raibh daoine róshásta leo go háirithe mar atá ag tarlú le foraoisí in áiteanna cosúil leis an mbrasaíl, an indinéis agus an mhalaeisia agus mar sin de. ach ós rud é go bhfuil seans againn dul ar ais agus féachaint air agus molaim mo chomhghleacaithe anseo anois atá imithe, christa klass as an jab iontach atá déanta aici agus as an am atá curtha isteach aici ar an obair seo. beidh seans againn is dócha teacht ar réiteach a bheidh níos fearr do gach duine.
mr president, yesterday parliament supported a 6% cap as a compromise that ensured we would get the proposal through. i agree with my colleague: 5.5% would be better but that would not have allowed the proposal to get through; 6% did. i also supported the amendment to ensure that the share of energy from renewable sources in petrol by 2020 is 7.5% of the final consumption of energy and petrol. bio-ethanol is a better outcome. the 6% cap is not as restrictive as some people say because it represents 6% in terms of global consumption, and if the state produces, for example, 7%, it can sell its surplus to a state that produces less. it is very encouraging to see that we supported and will review the indirect land-use change (iluc) model, using the latest available information, and that this regime will be in place by 2020. this gives industry sufficient time to plan and is positive news for the developing world, which will have to deal with issues like land-grab, water-grab and rising food prices. what we put in place yesterday was just about the bare minimum.
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur for this important report. i have a particular interest in this as i come from a country where eel-fishing has been banned since 2009, and yet it is clear that this has not worked. only ireland, along with norway, has banned eel-fishing. it is not a sensible or realistic management plan. it is like constantly filling a bucket with water that has a large hole in the bottom. we also see that eel escapement in ireland is at 27 % and many eels of course are lost due to the operation of hydroelectric water stations. in ireland we have used a sledge hammer to crack a nut, with no positive outcomes. we have no increase in the eel population and we have many eel fishermen unemployed with no hope of re-opening eel fisheries. europe needs a proper eel management plan, as outlined in this report, and ireland needs to be part of it.
mr president, the report on the eu youth strategy once again highlights the urgent need to get to grips with the fallout from the current economic crisis and its impact on young people. yesterday, in the state of the union address, mr barroso spoke about the glass being half full or half empty, and he was certainly on the half full side, but for a lot of young people the glass is entirely empty at the moment. youth employment in june 2013 stood at 23.9%, an increase of almost 1% since 2012: shocking figures, which indicate that the situation is getting worse, not better. so, my question is: how can we expect these young people to support pro-eu parties in the next european election when they see that eu policies are currently failing them? this report certainly highlights some of the positive issues concerning, for example, youth entrepreneurship and the youth guarantee but we have to recognise that the money set aside for the youth guarantee will be insufficient. the international labour organization has said that we would need in excess of eur 20 billion to implement it properly.
mr president, i welcome the adoption of these resolutions on the youth strategy and youth employment as an indication underpinning the importance that the european parliament attaches to the issue of youth employment. in my own country, ireland, youth unemployment is unacceptably high at 26 % and indeed one-third of unemployed people live in the capital city, dublin, my own constituency. now that we have the instruments, we need to ensure that they are implemented correctly. we need to ensure that member states consult with stakeholders in the first instance. we need to ensure that quality programmes are actually produced by the member states. we need to ensure that a youth guarantee is just that, and that it provides young people with a real opportunity and it provides progression into real and sustainable jobs. we also need to ensure that the youth guarantee is branded as such and that the european union ensures that member states and its young people in the member states are aware of the forms of support that are coming from the european union to address this issue.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agus bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo agus molaim an rapóirtéir as ucht an jab maith a rinne sí. gan dabht ar bith, tá an t-aos óg thíos leis faoi láthair de bharr an chúlú eacnamaíochta cé go ndearna a lán gach rud i gceart. chuaigh siad ar scoil, d’fhoghlaim siad, fuair siad cáilíochtaí ach ag deireadh na dála ní raibh jabanna acu. mar a dúirt emer costello, tá suas chomh fada le 26 % den aos óg i mo thír féin ar imirce. b’fhearr leo a bheith ag obair thar lear ná a bheith díomhaoin ag an mbaile. ach anois tá seans againn rud éigin a dhéanamh dóibh agus go háirithe an ráthaíocht seo a thugann jab nó oiliúint dóibh agus tá a leithéid an-tábhachtach. mar a dúirt an tuachtarán barroso inné, tá sé an-tábhachtach go gcuirfeadh na ballstáit na moltaí seo i bhfeidhm chomh luath agus chomh praiticiúil agus is féidir. ar a laghad chabhródh sé chun déileáil leis an bhfadhb.
mr president, this report on youth unemployment makes a number of good recommendations, such as a focus on high-quality education, training and work experience and a one-year relief plan to tackle youth unemployment where its level in a member state is greater than 25%. it also speaks of the use of the eu loan guarantee facility. these are all good initiatives but two issues stand out in my mind. entrepreneurs create jobs, and we need to recognise this aspect: it is just as important as any of the other issues i have mentioned. in the eu institutions we do not balance the ideas of supply and demand when it comes to creating employment. also, job creation does not occur in a vacuum and, especially in countries which are undergoing austerity programmes, flexibility must be part of the solution. procyclical economic policies across the eu with divergent economies are a recipe for a grinding flat-lining of growth, and all the other laudable measures in this report will amount to knocking our heads against a brick wall.
a uachtaráin, bhí an-áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo ach vótáil mé le mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir. vótálamar i gcoinne a lán de na moltaí ó ghrúpaí éagsúla mar gur cheapamar go ndeachaigh siad thar fóir. ach ag deireadh na dála is dóigh liom go bhfuil tuarascáil mhaith againn. gan dabht ar bith, ceann de na rudaí is fearr a tharla san aontas gur tháinig margadh aonair isteach. níl sé críochnaithe go fóill agus tá a lán moltaí á gcur os ár gcomhair ag an gcoimisiún chun é a chríochnú. agus gan dabht ar bith, tá an margadh inmheánach do sheirbhísí an-tábhachtach sa tionscnamh sin. molaim na moltaí mar a deirim ach tá sé an tábhachtach go n-oibreodh sé do thionscail agus do chustaiméirí agus ós rud é anois go bhfuil níos mó daoine ar an idirlíon agus mar sin, tá sé an-tábhachtach do dtabharfaimid seans go háirithe do níos mó ríomhthrádála a chruthú agus cabhróidh sé sin linn éalú as an gcúlú.
mr president, this report highlights the untapped potential for growth and jobs by fully implementing the services directive and, given that the services sector accounts for more than 65% of eu gdp, we can certainly see the real potential here. now, coming from a country that has a huge export services sector compared to our size, i consider it is very important that there are no unnecessary restrictions that hamper service provision, and we must do all we can to prevent gold-plating by member states. we need a coherent application of rules. right now, for example, we have a situation where one of our french colleagues is trying to muddy the waters in regard to the agreed abolition of milk quotas by 2015. he is trying to use market measures to protect producers in certain countries. while this is not directly related to the provision of services, it is the same mindset that influences the thinking of protectionism, not trade, and the eu cannot function with this mindset.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm arís tacaíocht a thabhairt don mholadh seo agus bhí sé de phribhléid agam a bheith anseo sa seomra ar maidin agus muid ag plé na tuarascála seo. bhí an tombudsman anseo agus bhí gach duine á moladh agus ní minic a tharlaíonn sé sin sa pharlaimint seo ach bhí gach duine ar aon ghuth go bhfuil an-jab déanta aige. chabhraigh sé sa tréimhse sin le 22 000 saoránach agus is jab an-mhaith sin gan dabht ar bith. dhún sé na gearáin freisin taobh istigh de bhliain amháin agus 66 % de na gearáin agus taispeánann sé seo go bhfuil obair mhaith á déanamh aige féin agus ag a oifig agus molaim iad. thug sé moltaí dúinn a chabhróidh leis an gcéad ombudsman eile, emily o’ reilly, agus tá súil agam go leanfaidh an dea-obair ar aghaidh ar son na saoránach.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas arís orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo agus is léir go raibh an chuid is mó de na feisirí sásta leis. vótáil 658 feisire san iomláin agus as sin vótáil 556 ina fabhar agus 54 ina coinne agus 28 a staon agus dá bhrí sin is móramh mór é sin agus tá an-mholadh dul don uasal giegold agus feisirí eile amhail an feisire balz, an feisire gauzès agus an feisire thyssen agus mar a dúirt an coimisinéir barnier anseo ar maidin, d’oibrigh siad i rith an tsamhraidh go léir agus tá an-mholadh ag dul dóibh faoi sin. tá moladh ag dul freisin don choimisinéir barnier chomh maith as na moltaí go léir a thug sé os ár gcomhair go háirithe chun smacht a chur ar na bainc agus sa tslí sin muinín a thabhairt do na saoránaigh nach dtarlóidh a léithéid a tharla go deo arís. dá bhrí sin, caithfimid a bheith an-sásta leis an obair a tharla inniu.
in writing. − this regulation seeks to adapt the european banking authority (eba) to take account of the impact and the consequences of the ecb assuming responsibility for supervising euro area banks, in particular its decision-making processes involving single supervisory mechanism-participating and non-participating member states. the final regulation agreed by meps and national governments strengthens the eba’s tasks and powers in the ssm, including in relation to launching stress-tests. the ssm is an essential part of european banking union. this is not an abstract end itself but is central to breaking the link between banking and sovereign debt and for repairing the flow of credit to the real economy, especially smes. we have to make sure that if bankers are tempted to indulge in wild speculation again, they will not be bailed out by taxpayers, as was disastrously decided in ireland in 2008, but by the financial sector itself. bankers will now have to show that they have sufficient resources, valuable assets and clear balance sheets. we should now complement this necessary measure by adopting the single resolution framework, as proposed recently by the commission, and by the deposit guarantee schemes mechanism.
in writing. − the allocation of specific tasks to the european central bank (ecb) relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions is a key component of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the first essential step for european banking union. banking union is not an abstract end in itself but is central to breaking the link between banking and sovereign debt and for repairing the flow of credit to the real economy, especially smes, which is vital for jobs. making the ecb responsible for supervising euro area banks will help ensure the stability of europe’s banking system. the necessary transfer of supervisory powers from national authorities to european level is matched by enhanced accountability of the ecb to the directly-elected representatives of the peoples of europe in the european parliament, through the participation of the chair of the supervisory board in parliament hearings on the conduct of the ecb’s supervisory duties, annual reporting by the ecb on the execution of its supervisory tasks to meps, etc. we must now complement this reform with a single resolution framework, as proposed recently by the commission, and with a deposit guarantee schemes mechanism, which is still stuck in council.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don mholadh seo agus bhí gach duine beagnach d’aonghuth mar tá siad ciallmhar. a luaithe a chuirfear i bhfeidhm iad is fearr go háirithe i dtreo agus nach mbeimid ag brath chomh mór sin agus atáimid ar ghás agus ar ola a iomportáil ó thíortha eile. bhí judith merkies i gceannas ar an tuarascáil seo agus rinne sí point an-suimiúil sa díospóireacht dhá oíche ó shin. one of the points made in the debate was that 30% of energy in the united kingdom could be obtained through micro-generation. only last week, i had a group in my office in brussels who told me that they could convert 600 000 homes in ireland to micro-generation with the right conditions. not only that, but they could provide a surplus which could go back into the grid. i hope today’s discussions and proposals will lead to that happening all over europe.
in writing. − i supported the microgeneration, small scale electricity and heat generation resolution because i believe in the capacity of the microgeneration sector to be an engine for job creation in the eu economy. during the debate, we have seen how small scale technologies covered by this resolution have been a ‘blind spotʼ in european energy policy so far, despite the potential of the sector to cover a much more significant proportion of the regionʼs energy needs. this resolution calls on member states to take a more proactive approach in implementing the energy efficiency directive 2012/27/eu and, in particular, in removing barriers to microgeneration deployment. i believe this industry has great potential, with the correct supports in place, to yield dividends in terms of job creation and environmental protection.
mr president, i would agree with my colleague from ireland, martina anderson, and the points she made. it is extraordinary that the concept of equal pay for work of equal value was enshrined in 1957. here we are 56 years later and it has not become a reality for everybody. there is a 16.2% gap right now across the european union. it is important that we, who were responsible for introducing the concept in the first place, should now highlight it again to ensure it becomes a reality right across the european union. another point i would also like to make is that, because of the economic recession, there is exploitation of young people, particularly young girls, graduates and so forth, who are being taken on by employers and kept on minimal wages, often with no contract of long-term duration. that is also something that we have to look at and deal with.
mr president, with the pay gap between women and men at 14% in ireland, this is clearly a key issue. as across europe, women comprise the overwhelming majority of workers in some of the lowest paid sectors, are more likely to be affected by pay freezes in the public sector and are more likely to be in part-time or precarious employment. irish families are forced to fork out 29% of their family net income on childcare – more than double the european average. we are continually told that equal pay legislation was handed down from on high by the eu. that is rubbish; it was won by mass strikes in france after the second world war and by the heroic strikes of female ammunition workers in belgium, ford workers in britain and countless others across europe. as the great abolitionist frederick douglass put it: ‘power concedes nothing without a demand. it never did and it never will’. it will be a struggle across europe, including against austerity, precarious contracts and the lack of childcare facilities, which will ensure that equal pay for equal work is truly won.
in writing. − i believe adamantly that pay disparity on the basis of gender is unacceptable in 21st century europe and i was happy to support this report as a result. as the report outlines, progress in narrowing the gender pay gap has been extremely slow, and in some member states the gap has even widened. this is despite the significant body of legislation in force for almost 40 years. reducing gender inequalities by closing the gender pay gap will bring benefits not only for women but also for society as a whole, and closing the gender pay gap should not be seen as a cost but as an investment. the resolution calls on the commission to support member states in their efforts to reduce pay disparity on the basis of gender and i look forward to hearing them report on their progress in the coming months.
mr president, this topic i think is of absolute vital importance – the digital agenda for growth, mobility and employment – and the sooner we can complete the digital single market the better it will be for growth, mobility and above all employment, which is our biggest challenge right across the european union. certainly this is one area where a lot of progress can be made. i attended a hearing yesterday where commissioner kroes was outlining proposals particularly in regard to the telecommunications area and the hope of eliminating roaming charges within two years. i commend that and i think that is going to be of major value. certainly the operators might not agree but, no doubt about it, citizens will agree and it will show them very clearly that the european union can work for them. i think that this is very important and, again, the sooner it can happen the better.
mr president, there is a shadow hanging over the debate about attacking syria. it is the shadow of the over 100 000 killed in iraq as a result of a war premised on a lie. it is the shadow of a massive movement of over 10 million people, which failed to stop that war but did demonstrate the hollow nature of the democracies that we live in. although it is not clear who is responsible for the chemical weapons attack, both assad and the leading forces in the opposition today are undoubtedly guilty of gruesome sectarian atrocities. military intervention will only worsen the situation. a non-sectarian mass movement of the syrian people is needed to provide a democratic and just solution. it is the mass opposition to any military intervention which has tied the hands of the warmongers and forced them to at least go through the motions of finding a diplomatic solution, but none of them can be trusted one iota. people need to mobilise to say: ‘remember iraq, do not let them attack syria’.
mr president, two weeks ago the british government suffered a humiliating defeat when mps felt the pressure of the mass of the population against going to war once more. across the world, people remember the lies they were told about iraq, about afghanistan, and they have no trust in the political establishment. they also oppose billions of euros being handed over to the armaments industry. and then we have this report – which flies in the face of all of the attitudes of the majority of people across europe. it drives forward instead the efforts to militarise the european union. it calls for the strengthening of eu battle groups in an attempt to move towards an eu army, for more money to be spent on armaments, and for a closer relationship with nato, a military alliance with over 5 000 nuclear weapons of mass destruction. the eu council meeting in december will discuss further militarisation – further the agenda of the european merchants of death. the rebuilding of a strong, anti-war movement, armed with a political alternative to war ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. − i support ireland’s participation in the eu’s common security and defence policy in accordance with the eu treaties, including article 42(2) which provides that union policy in this area shall not prejudice the specific character of the security and defence policy of certain member states (i.e. irish neutrality) and in accordance with ireland’s ‘triple-lock’ under which members of the irish defence forces participate in international missions upon approval by the irish government, approval by the irish parliament and under a un mandate. i am committed to ensuring that the irish defence forces are appropriately equipped and staffed to meet our obligations to un and eu peacekeeping missions. i could not support this own-initiative report however, as i believe some of its recommendations go beyond this framework.
in writing. − most people advocating a more humane system for the reception of unaccompanied minors in ireland would acknowledge, i think, that improvements have been made by the hse since 2004. unaccompanied minors are no longer placed in unsupported hostel accommodation but with foster families and supported lodgings, and they take part in the education system. however, on turning 18 these young people lose the right to care and education. they face removal from foster families, being placed in direct provision, and potential deportation. recent research by ucd lecturer muireann ni raghallaigh found that that these young people dread coming of age because of the loss of stability and certainty in their lives. further reforms are clearly needed, such as independent advice to help unaccompanied minors and their carers deal with the asylum system, better inspections of foster homes and supported lodgings, an independent complaints procedure, and proper aftercare, including the right to continue their education; the best interests of the young person must be paramount at all stages. there is much member states can learn from each other. the commission should now produce strategic guidelines, as recommended by this report, to better protect unaccompanied minors across europe.
in writing. − i voted to support this timely and interesting report, given the significant potential of cultural and creative sectors as sources of growth and jobs. these sectors currently account for 4.5 % of gdp and 8.5 million jobs across the european union and there is further opportunity to strengthen this sector and maximise the beneficial effects for the economy and society as a whole. i fully support the position that the cultural and creative sectors be used as a vehicle for promoting closer cooperation between the different policy areas, particularly culture, education, industry, economic affairs, tourism, and urban and regional development. the ‘creative europeʼ programme with its budget of eur 1.8 billion offers an excellent starting point but must be an accessible programme for those at the community level. information about the programme, its potential and the funds available must be clear and accessible, without red tape.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors (ccs) should be recognised for their intrinsic cultural value and for the major contribution they make in promoting growth and jobs, especially in urban areas. between 2000 and 2007, employment grew more than three times as fast in these sectors than in the wider economy. a 2010 dublin city council report found that these sectors accounted for 10 % of all jobs in the greater dublin area. these sectors continue to face major challenges however – the economic crisis, access to finance, the digital shift, fragmented markets, precarious working conditions, etc. it is essential that europe supports and invests in the ccs over the coming years, including through the creative europe programme and cohesion policy instruments. i would urge the commission in particular to take up this report’s recommendation for an expanded forum of stakeholders in the ccs, based on the existing european platform on the potential of the cultural and the creative sectors, to map out a longer-term view of the challenges and prospects of these sectors as well as a european strategy for the ccs that is clearly linked to the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. − i supported this report because i believe in the potential of the cultural and creative sectors to stimulate job creation and economic growth in the eu. the cultural and creative sectors (architecture, artistic crafts, cultural heritage, design, festivals, film and television, music, performing and visual arts, archives and libraries, publishing and radio) account for 3-4 % of the euʼs gdp and employ 7-8 million people. this report aims to look at how to improve the competitiveness and export potential of these sectors, and to maximise their spillover benefits for ict and innovation. it envisages a series of policy initiatives and the promotion of a modern regulatory environment, as well as better coordination of policies in areas such as culture, education, industry, economic affairs, tourism, urban and regional development, and territorial planning. ireland is a county with a rich cultural and creative heritage and has developed a substantial and ever growing industry in the cultural and creative sectors. i feel it is of paramount importance that parliament support these sectors in a substantial manner to create jobs and to enhance the cultural diversity of the eu.
a uachtaráin, is ceart agus is cóir go bpléimid i bpoblacht na hafraice láir anseo inniu go háirithe ós rud é go dtugann an taontas eorpach níos mó cabhrach di ná aon tír ná aon aonad eile. tugaimid mar a dúirt an t-údar eur 20 milliún in aghaidh na bliana, suim nach beag. cé go bhfuair an phoblacht seo neamhspleáchas i 1960, ní móran iad na buntáistí a thug sé do dhaonra na tíre, faraor. tá siad sa 9ú háit as 187 tír ó thaobh forbairt daonra. nuair a thuigeann tú go bhfuil saibhreas sa tír seo ó thaobh acmhainní nádúrtha cosúil le hadhmad, ór agus úráiniam is deacair an figiúr sin a thuiscint. dá bhrí sin, caithfimid gach cabhair a thabhairt dóibh chun deireadh a chur leis an bhforéigean agus chun an saibhreas a roinnt i measc an daonra. tá a lán le déanamh agus ba chóir dúinn cabhrú leo.
author. − mr president, this resolution, among other things, outlines the situation in bahrain where human rights activists are facing ongoing systematic targeting, harassment and detention. in this context it asks, and so do i, for the unconditional release of all prisoners of conscience: doctors, paramedics, journalists, political activists, human rights defenders and peaceful protestors. in particular i want to mention two prisoners: nabeel rajab, whom i met, and abdulhadi al-khawaja, whose family i met when in bahrain. at that time he was in prison. mr tannock asked if we really need a resolution on bahrain. well, i want to raise the issue of the misuse of cs gas in bahrain. according to reports i have received, it has killed upwards of 50 people, which in reality means it is weaponised, and when a toxic chemical is used in excess and results in multiple deaths it constitutes a chemical weapon, according to the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons. this is of particular relevance during the current debate on syria, but for some reason it seems to have been ignored. in my opinion, there should immediately be a challenge inspection of bahrain under the chemical weapons convention protocols.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, like millions around the world, workers and young people in bahrain were inspired by the revolutionary uprisings in tunisia and in egypt. they struck a direct chord with them because of their own experience of hardship and a lack of democratic rights. when they took to the streets in order to demand democratic freedoms, to demand better living conditions, they were met with absolutely brutal repression by the bahraini state forces and by the intervention of the saudi army. repression continues and has in fact increased recently, including particularly against public sector workers and medical staff. over 2 000 public sector workers have been laid off recently for presumed participation in the protests, or simply for treating those who were injured by state forces. thirty-one of the 48 salmaniya medical workers who were convicted before the military tribunal, were subsequently acquitted by the criminal court. however, several doctors remain in jail and many of those who have been acquitted have been unable to return to their jobs or to engage in private practice. in august king hamad issued a royal decree that indefinitely suspends the right to free assembly in the capital. all political prisoners need to be released without further delay. all workers that have been sacked simply for exercising their legitimate right to protest must be reinstated. finally, let me ask the question: is it not the most blatant hypocrisy that those very forces that are screaming for an attack on syria – the us and britain – are engaged in arms trading with this force in this region?
a uachtaráin, chun an fhírinne a rá, níl bairéin leath chomh holc lena a lán tíortha eile a phléimid sa seomra seo agus is ceart go dtugaimid aitheantas don dul chun cinn atá déanta go háirithe mar a dúradh maidir le hombudsman do na póilíní, coimisiún fiosrúcháin neamhspleách a bhunú agus aitheantas a thabhairt do mhná, rud nach bhfuil le fáil ina lán tíortha eile. ach ag an am céanna, má tá lochtanna ann, ba chóir dúinn iad sin a rá chomh maith agus is é sin atá os ár gcomhair anseo inniu agus gan dabht ar bith, ba chóir brú a chur orthu go háirithe chun preas saor a bheith acu sa tír sin agus tá sé sin an-tábhachtach in aon tír daonlathach. freisin, ba chóir na meáin shóisialta a cheadú agus ba chóir gan daoine óga a chur i bpríosúin do dhaoine fásta.
mr president, before i speak against, let me be very clear that this is an important issue, so we do not disagree with the importance of the issue in terms of greenpeace and russia. however, i would point out to colleagues that on thursday morning there is an oral question on the rule of law and human rights in russia, and i would respectfully suggest that in that debate we have an opportunity to raise these issues, which are important, and get our message across in that debate.
mr president, i wanted to be clear that we should incorporate this point into the debate or oral question on russia. could you take that suggestion on board so that it becomes part of the debate that we will be having on thursday morning anyway?
mr president, i rise to raise two ancillary issues to this debate. one is public perception. with the way the economy is, we are increasingly hearing from citizens that our policies are costing jobs and raising energy prices. we need to try and lead the debate, so that there is an understanding of the bigger picture, but this is an important fact. on renewables, in ireland at the moment there is a very big debate about wind energy, which we support here, but people do not like where it is going to be located, or indeed the fact that it will be exported to the united kingdom. so there are sensitive issues for member states to deal with and we need better-quality debate on these issues. my last point is linked, but not entirely related. it concerns the green paper on the framework for climate and energy policy and the place of agriculture and the demands for mitigation in agriculture. we are going to have to be very careful here. i do not think we are realistic. i think we have to have a look at sustainable agriculture in europe and in the global context and not do damage. perhaps that is a debate for another time, commissioner.
briefly chairman, can i say that this type of debate almost puts me off my dinner – if we actually get dinner this evening – because we talk about food in ways that really confuse people. and i could agree with the last speaker where he said we don’t want ridiculous labels on food, and yet in many cases we have ridiculous labels on food. it is very clear, though, that citizens are more and more confused. despite the extra information we give them, there is huge confusion around what constitutes healthy eating and healthy diets, and it seems to me that when we pinpoint a particular food as being a good food, that puts people off everything else. so i think we need to be extremely careful with the information we give to consumers – and extremely clear in a very simple message, which our grandmothers gave us, that a little bit of what you like will do you good and variety is the spice of life. and sometimes our labels take away from that very basic premise.
mr president, this is a very technical issue but a very important one for our consumers and many of the details they perhaps do not need to know. however, what they do need is to be reassured that this change, if it comes about, guarantees them a high level of protection in terms of what they consume. i initially had the same concerns as others in relation to timing, but from the reassurances received i accept the good faith of the commission in this regard. i was also of the view that if we have the european food safety agency (efsa) making recommendations, then they are the scientific body i would look to for advice. i also spoke to the irish food safety authority which agrees with the commission proposal, this risk-based strategy. and indeed, as others have suggested, this change may allow – and should allow – for better visual examination and for carcasses to be taken off the line where there is a problem. i think people need to be aware of that. it is not that they are just looked at, but that there are decisions being made. ultimately i believe that this can work where the official veterinarian does the job of the official veterinarian and literally takes away carcasses which they have any concerns about at all, and that they are the final arbiter of what goes into the food chain. so, initially i had some reservations about this and i listened to those who work in the industry on the line, and indeed in the industry and those associated with it on the food safety side, and i now can support my colleague, mr schnellhardt, in his recommendations, because he is an expert on these issues.
a uachtaráin, táimid ar ais in strasbourg arís agus táimse ag labhairt faoi ábhar ar labhair mé faoi cheana féin. the subject i want to briefly comment on tonight is the difference in price paid to irish cattle producers at the factories, compared to in britain. just to indicate, bord bia, which represents the irish industry, estimates that there is eur 350 per animal of difference between what is paid to an irish producer and what is paid to a british producer, and that this has increased exponentially over the years. in 2008 there was 10 cents per kg difference between the price paid to the irish producer as opposed to the british producer, in 2011 it was 14 cents and in 2013 it is 41 cents. so i think we have to look at the reasons for this and we particularly need to see if there is a cartel in operation and to do something about it, because this cannot be tolerated and is most unfair to the irish producers.
mr president, i want to welcome the latest scientific advice from ices which recommends a large increase of 67 % in the total allowable catch of mackerel next year. this scientific advice reflects what the fishermen have encountered in the fishing grounds over the last five years. regrettably, while this is a substantial increase, it is minimal as it is only 14 000 tonnes greater than the declared expected catches of 334 000 tonnes for 2013 by the faroes, iceland and now greenland. i want to remind commissioner damanaki, who is in the house, that on 10 july the commissioner gave us in the committee on fisheries her word that the necessary steps would be taken by the summer break to introduce the sanctions. it has been a long summer, commissioner, and we have not heard a word from you. i am putting it to the commissioner here that as a result of that, she is holding the fisheries committee and parliament in contempt and she cannot meet us until 27 november. a commissioner whose responsibility is for the european union fisheries committee is not responding and even last week did not have time to talk to the chairs of the college, absconded from the meeting, but hopefully she is ... (the president cut off the speaker).
mr president, in 2006 this parliament set up a committee of inquiry into equitable life. i chaired that committee and in 2007 we reported back. it is good news for parliament that money is being paid by the uk government to policyholders who were affected by the demise of that company, and there are large numbers of them – over a million in the uk and 15 000 in other eu member states. the bad part of this issue is that there is some sluggishness in how the compensation scheme is working. i would urge colleagues from the united kingdom to put pressure again on their administration to make sure that those affected get the compensation they are entitled to. we have concerns that 20% of policyholders may not receive compensation because the administrators say they cannot contact them. so this is a wake-up call to policyholders. i think it is really important, because the scheme ends in march of next year, that we put out this warning both to our uk colleagues and to the administration. they must do better.
mr president, we are here to bear witness to your words, that this is a really important report. there probably should be a full debate, but at least we are here and it is on the table. i would like to thank my colleague gay mitchell, who really has worked hard to put this on the agenda. there are parts of this report that i cannot support, but i will support the overall theme of the report, which is to highlight this issue of 200 million missing women and to look at how this can be prevented. there is a real issue, first around awareness and then around action. it is not just a problem in some countries, it is a global issue. so i would like to complement the work that has been done on this across the political groups. perhaps it will begin a really serious debate about life and death: children that are allowed to survive, and abortion. i would add that if gendercide is a crime, the abortion of children, male or female, is a problem which we really have to address; but this is a very welcome report.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl don rapóirtéir as ucht an tuarascáil thábhachtach seo a ullmhú. ba mhaith liom díriú ar réigiún na teorann, lár na tíre agus an iarthair in éirinn. this region has been greatly affected by rising unemployment levels as a result of the economic recession. despite this, the border, midlands and western (bmw) region was reclassified as a more developed region, due to the outdated gdp per capita levels which were used. the situation was partially reversed when this region was allocated a special provision of eur 100 million. of course, i raised this issue on several occasions in the committee on regional development. unfortunately, this region is still expected to receive a reduction in funding over the next seven years. therefore, it is imperative that the government, in addition to funding the bmw region, also commits to co-financing rural development, such as leader, youth unemployment and improving the quality of high-speed broadband throughout rural ireland, to mention but a few.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as an seans a thabhairt dom labhairt ar an ábhar tábhachtach seo go háirithe ós rud é go bhfuil mé i mo bhall den choiste um fhorbairt réigiúnach agus ba mhaith liom bean mazzoni a mholadh as ucht an dea-obair atá déanta aici arís anseo. when we first started discussing 2020 the key word was simplification. in recent times we have moved on from simplification to flexibility, and if we can implement those two aspirations then i think we will make much progress and ensure that monies are well spent for the benefit of our citizens. gdp has been mentioned by my colleague mr gallagher as not being a perfect model, and certainly within regions there are often very poor areas. that is why the flexibility for local regions and local governments to work through groups like leader to do what is best for their communities is so very important. i think the proposals here at least allow that to happen.
mr president, i come from ireland and we have this week, under the direction of our health minister, james riley, decided that ireland will be tobacco-free by 2025. it is a very ambitious target, so i want in particular to compliment the president-in-office for a very passionate speech about the fact that cigarettes kill: there is no way round this statement of fact. so if this directive under the direction of our rapporteur helps to stop young children like mine from smoking, let us give it every bit of support and let us discuss some of the details as the rapporteur has. however, on e-cigarettes, i think this is a very contentious issue. i am always touched or surprised or puzzled when on the ryanair flight e-cigarettes are ‘encouraged’, let us say. i did not know that michael o’leary had a clinic to help people stop smoking on all his flights. if that is the case, i compliment him. i rather suspect that this is another product to keep people smoking, perhaps stop .... (the chair cut off the speaker).
mr president, over the last decade since the introduction of the tobacco products directive we have had attempts at a reduction in the numbers of smokers, but there is a much higher rate of tobacco use among our youth. like my colleague mairead mcguinness, i would like to see a very big reduction. i think the legislative review is an essential instrument to keep improving public health in the face of a scourge. we do want to see three quarters of cigarette packs covered with health warnings and a ban on flavourings and an end to the attractive slim cigarette formats. whilst plain packaging and point-of-sale display bans failed to secure a majority in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, nothing in this legislation prevents eu member states from taking these and further measures. i hope many will be following the good example set by ireland on this front.
in writing. – we need to enforce, regulate and legislate for tobacco activities and products. research shows that tobacco places a heavy burden on governments and society as a whole. costs include indirect costs related to workday losses due to morbidity and direct costs associated with inpatient and outpatient care. non-smokers also pay for the costs of smoking, primarily in the form of higher health insurances and medical costs related to second-hand smoke, leading to higher taxes and higher prices for healthcare products and services. the new directive will be good for people’s health and will especially act to discourage young people from getting hooked on tobacco products. one in every five young boys and girls between the ages of 13 and 15 in europe are smokers. this is an absolutely shocking ticking time bomb for our public health systems. we have a chance to protect our children from the harms of tobacco and assist those who smoke to stop. for those reasons, i support and applaud the rapporteurʼs work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it ensures that the egf is properly mobilised to help deal with 480 redundancies in the lombardy region in italy. what is more, it serves to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf, so that delays do not hamper its effectiveness. these measures help cushion the impact of redundancies and the funds they provide are vital.
mr president, i welcome this report. it is a good report and it is badly needed. it outlines what steps the eu needs to take in its war against corruption, so i voted for it, quite obviously. the eu can only become a credible and influential leader in the fight against corruption if it adequately addresses the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering outside and inside its borders, and if it fosters the involvement of programme beneficiaries in third countries and contributes to greater monitoring, accountability and transparency of external aid in the fight against corruption. the report requests the eu member states to amend their criminal laws, where necessary, to establish jurisdiction over individuals of any nationality found on their territories who have committed acts of bribery or embezzlement of public funds. it asks for capacity building of anti-corruption institutions, which is very important in a borderless europe. the report complements the corporate and social responsibility report by the committee on employment and social affairs by requesting that all eu enterprises build their corporate responsibility.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo cosúil lena lán feisirí eile mar is deacair dul ina coinne. táimid go léir i bhfabhar troid i gcoinne mímhacántachta agus coiriúlachta pé áit a mbíonn sé – in ár dtíortha féin nó i dtíortha an tríú domhan agus, dá bhrí sin, thugamar tacaíocht do na moltaí seo inniu. there is no doubt that in non-democratic states there will be great corruption and people will try to hang on to power at all costs. but even in democratic states there can also be a certain amount of corruption: indeed, we have seen that in our own country and it has caused some of our present difficulties. nevertheless, regarding third countries, we pride ourselves on the aid we give to them, although in many cases there are not enough checks and balances in relation to the way that the money is spent. as my colleague ms záborská said, up to a third of it can be stolen. so we must be very careful to monitor this properly in the future.
in writing. − corruption disproportionately affects the most disadvantaged and the marginalised, barring them from equal access to politics, public services, justice, safety, land, jobs, education, health and housing. the world bank estimates the corruption amounts to 5 % of global gdp, far exceeding the value of global oda. europe can only become a credible and influential leader in the fight against corruption when it properly addresses organised crime, corruption and money laundering within its own borders. the commission should come forward with an eu action plan against corruption. all european firms must fulfil their corporate social responsibility to respect human rights, at the very least by complying with the unʼs guiding principles on business and human rights. the human rights clause introduced into all agreements between the eu and third countries should be strengthened by the inclusion of commitments on the protection and promotion of good governance. europe should press for binding international rules to regulate private military and security companies, which are particularly prone to corruption, and to protect whistle-blowers and follow up the information they provide; if we are serious about fighting corruption, we need to be serious about protecting whistle-blowers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it increases our institutional capacity to tackle corruption and our ability to deal with individuals, of any nationality, who have committed acts of bribery and embezzlement of public funds in developing countries. such corruption impedes the equal enjoyment of basic human rights and must be proactively addressed by the member states, given our mutual commitment to upholding these rights.
mr president, i again welcomed this report and had pleasure in voting for it. the european union needs a strategic capacity to carry out effective foresight across key long-term trends shaping society. this has led to the creation of the european strategy and policy analysis system (espas), a unique interinstitutional project aimed at strengthening the eu’s efforts in the crucial area of forward planning. this report sends out a very strong political signal that we, the eu, are willing to look beyond institutional borders, to go beyond internal and even external borders to tackle future challenges together. if espas can be founded and developed on the solid principles set out in this report, not only will it enable us to look more regularly and more seriously at the pattern of long-term global trends, it will continuously enhance our capacity to identify key issues, raise the quality of our collective discussion about policy challenges and the choices that we face, and ultimately help us to take better decisions more quickly in the interests of our citizens.
mr president, i would like to first of all congratulate the s&d rapporteur, evelyn regner, because she agreed to quite a number of compromises which made it possible for the ppe group to entirely support this excellent report. it is an own-initiative report, but it was very necessary in order to fill in the gaps regarding areas of employment law that were not covered by the recast brussels i regulation 2012. this report provides an excellent basis for a potential amendment to the brussels i regulation. the report proposes very practical changes to the regulation in order to protect tradesmen and those who work in what you might call ‘irregular’ conditions or workplaces. without these changes, there is a very real danger that the european union’s rules could negatively affect the rules which protect workers’ rights in the member states, so again i commend the report to the house.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it provides practical, important improvements to the brussels i regulation 2012. prior to the resolution, certain tradesmen, or those working in less ‘regularʼ jobs and environments, may not have had their workersʼ rights adequately protected. this report introduces a number of changes that ensure this does not happen, filling prior gaps in employment law.
in writing. − the world’s 100 000 strong merchant fleet transports 90 % of global trade. each year, 2 000 merchant sailors perish at sea, gaining very little public or media attention. this directive updates member states’ responsibilities with regard to enforcing the international labour organization’s 2006 maritime labour convention, which was transposed into eu law in 2009. this convention sets down minimum standards in relation to health protection, medical care, welfare, conditions of employment, accommodation, recreational facilities, food and catering for seafarers, irrespective of their nationality. under this new directive, member states must establish effective inspection and enforcement mechanisms to ensure that the working and living conditions of seafarers, on ships flying their flag, meet the basic international standards, as well as the higher eu standards. seafarers must be able to report breaches of the rules on board ships, and such complaints must be handled fairly, effectively and promptly. we still need to ensure better protection for seafarers employed by a manning agency in one country, working, in international waters, on a ship owned by a company registered in a second, which flies the flag of a third.
mr president, this directive is the very minimum that is required to prevent and deter a new generation of smokers. the irish government just this week produced an ambitious and comprehensive plan to make ireland tobacco-free by 2025. the directive will be an important tool in that campaign. one in two smokers die from smoking-related disease. smokers die on average 14 years earlier than non-smokers. in ireland, 5 200 people die each year from smoking-related diseases such as cancer, stroke and respiratory disease: these are all avoidable deaths. the human cost to smokers and their families in terms of sickness, suffering and death is tragic and incalculable. the financial cost to our already stretched health services is absolutely enormous. i voted for the pictorial health warning covering 75% of the pack, and for banning slim cigarettes targeted at young girls as well as flavoured products, including menthol, vanilla and strawberry. i find the attempts by the ppe group and others to dilute this directive regrettable and i wish the rapporteur well in her negotiations with council.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo go háirithe. táim sásta gur glacadh leis na moltaí – an chuid is mó díobh ar aon nós. i must say that, as one who championed the 65 % health warning on the top of packages, i am very pleased that parliament agreed to that today. i know that our minister, mr reilly, and the irish government will be very pleased as well, as ireland has been at the forefront in combating the fight against smoking and its ill effects. during the irish presidency especially, they made much progress in that regard. i think that today, members showed that they can resist the power of lobbies when it comes to the health of our citizens and particularly the future of our young people. but allied to that, now that we have the basis for a strong legislative procedure we should also introduce a very robust educational programme to go with it, so that young people will not be lured into smoking and the health of our citizens will improve accordingly in the years to come.
mr president, to quote the musician david byrne, the true face of smoking is disease, death and horror, not the glamour and sophistication that pushers in the tobacco industry try to portray. every year 700 000 people die in europe from tobacco-related diseases and one in two smokers dies due to the effects of smoking. i therefore voted for the maximum regulation of this industry, including larger health warnings and the plain packaging of cigarettes. there has been a massive lobbying exercise here by the tobacco industry. nine tobacco firms, 22 tobacco industry lobby groups, and 12 pr firms, including former senior fine gael advisors, have been spending millions of euros in lobbying and wining and dining meps. a leaked document revealed that just one of these firms, tobacco giant philip morris, has had meetings with 233 meps, one-third of this parliament, all of this taking place behind closed doors in the most untransparent manner possible. this access for the tobacco industry shows where the priority for many of the establishment parties lie. for them, the maintenance of profits for one of the most contemptible sections of capitalism comes before the health of ordinary people.
mr president, i was happy to support this directive, and indeed i was a member of the irish parliament when we introduced the ban on smoking in the workplace. at that time i fully supported that groundbreaking legislation. that legislation of course was to protect smokers’ health, but also to protect the health of others from second-hand smoke. i have to say that in general i have a certain wariness of the nanny state – particularly at eu level, because it is so difficult to change it. however, my starting point on this piece of legislation was that i asked myself: if tobacco were being introduced for sale today, would it ever make it to our supermarket shelves? and the answer to that is: no. so it was in that context that i decided how to vote. i voted against the imitation tobacco products being banned, because that is nanny state, and i did not vote to include e-cigarettes as medicinal products. paul murphy talked about lobbying. 98 % of the lobbying that i received was from people who were trying to give up cigarettes, urging that they should not be included as medicinal products, but i did vote to get rid of flavoured and slim cigarettes and for 65 % health warning on packets. i also changed my amendment 97 vote to a plus.
i scríbhinn. − is baill muid den pháirtí polaitiúil in éirinn a chur cosc sa bhliain 2004 ar thobac a chaitheamh laistigh – an chéad tír san ae a rinne a leithéid – agus vótálamar i bhfabhar na reachtaíochta tábhachtaí seo. thacaíomar go háirithe leis an moladh íosmhéid de 65% d’fhógraí rabhaidh a bheith ar chlúdach toitíní. ós rud é go bhfuil tuairiscí ann ó dhaoine a dhearbhaíonn gur chabhraigh na toitíní leictreonacha leo éirí as an gcaitheamh tobac, ní rabhamar sásta, áfach, tacú le moladh an choimisiúin na toitíní leictreonacha sin a chur ar fáil le hoideas amháin. thiocfadh sé sin salach ar na cuspóirí i dtaca le daoine a spreagadh chun éirí as an gcaitheamh tobac. faigheann 700 000 duine sa bhliain bás san ae ón tobac agus is é an caitheamh tobac an phríomhchúis inchoiscthe báis. tá éirithe go maith le roinnt blianta anuas le hiarrachtaí maidir le rátaí caithimh tobac a ísliú: 40% de mhuintir an ae a chaith tobac i 2002 agus is 27% an figiúr a bhí ann anuraidh. tacaímid go láidir le bearta na tuarascála i dtaca le díspreagadh a thabhairt do dhaoine tobac a chaitheamh agus i dtaca le cabhrú leo siúd a dteastaíonn uathu éirí as.
mr president, i voted in favour of this agreement. the fact that it was earlier rejected by the committee on fisheries only reflects the influence of the interests of european big fishing here, and the placing of those interests above the environment and above the interest of small fishermen from mauritania and the 36% of the mauritanian workforce employed in the fisheries sector. it is the actions of massive european-owned trawlers, together with others, in mauritanian waters which have made fishing in that region increasingly unsustainable. for example, the irish-owned atlantic dawn, the largest trawler in the world, could collect in one day what it would take a whole year for 7 000 mauritanian fishermen to catch. it was correctly known by them as the ship from hell, and it has since been thrown out of mauritanian waters. as a result of that kind of fishing, according to the president of one of the small fishing groups, it now takes 15 days to bring in a profitable catch, where it previously took 12 hours. this agreement is insufficient but it is a step in the right direction of sustainable fishing.
mr president, this is an important report which relates to deliberate gender-based killing. it is incredible to think that we have figures of 200 million women and girls that are missing from the world’s population simply because of systematic targeting of women and girls. we also have the issue of unborn children, and in particular girl foetuses which are aborted simply because of their sex. in this context i was pleased to see that parliament supported the proposal that union assistance should not go to any organisation or programme which supports any action that involves human rights abuses such as coercive abortion, forced sterilisation of men or women, or prenatal sex selection and infanticide. it was only carried narrowly, but surely nobody could support the spending of eu resources in that way. the raping and killing of women in their teens and in later life is just a continuation of the mindset that supports sexual discrimination at all ages and sees girls foetuses, girl babies and girl children as expendable and something that can be eliminated.
in writing. − this report is the first ep report mainly focusing on the concept of ‘gendercideʼ and is certainly something to be welcomed. this report specifically explores the causes, current trends, consequences and ways of combating prenatal sex-selection practices, which can also take the form of infanticide through neglect. regrettably the report strays into the area of reproductive rights – this is something which i do not accept. reproductive rights are an issue of subsidiarity and as such it lies with each member state to determine such matters.
in writing. − i am fully in support of this report which calls on the commission and third countries to develop a regional approach to fish conservation and fishing in those waters, and encourages the establishment of maritime zones taking into account the cross-border dimension of fishing and the migratory nature of some species. as we know there have been some difficulties regarding stocks and marine resources given the specific characteristics of the mediterranean and the black sea. this report, by establishing maritime zones, will also prevent disputes between coastal states and maritime areas, which is an ongoing problem.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, completion of the european research area by 2014 is central to strengthening eu member states’ research systems, increasing their competitiveness and allowing them to work together more effectively to tackle major challenges. research and innovation are central to job creation and economic growth, in particular in the sme sector. the european research area will assist europe in becoming the world’s leading knowledge economy. there is a budgetary facility for over eur 70 billion for horizon 2020 and this is an increase of over 25 % in budgetary terms over the fp7 programme. there is innovation union, a key flagship of europe 2020, where changes in public procurement law, venture capital markets, patent and standardisation rules are helping the eu develop new innovative jobs, services and processes. however, these key policy objectives cannot fully succeed unless we implement a strong european research area, one where researchers can freely move and work in each european member state and easily carry their pension and social security rights across borders; one where there are open and transparent rules for recruitment within the research education environment. it is clear that significant work remains ahead to achieve these goals. while we continue to train an increasing number of phds, europe trails behind its main competitors in terms of the numbers of qualified and trained researchers working in the industry: 45 % of total researchers in the european union compared with 78 % in the usa, 74 % in japan and 62 % in china. member states must implement the objectives of the era communications in a determined and strategic manner. that is how we will create better quality jobs and it will ensure that the eu can attract the best researchers around the world to work in europe. may i compliment the commissioner on the unstinting work which she has done in this area over the past four years and, of course, wish the lithuanian presidency well in the future.
a uachtaráin, cuireann an díospóireacht seo saghas déistine orm i ndáiríre mar is deacair a chreidiúint sa lá atá inniu ann gur gá dúinn an t-ábhar seo a phlé i bparlaimint na heorpa ach sin mar atá. agus freisin is deacair a chreidiúint nach bhfuil coinbhinsiún iostanbúl daingnithe ag tíortha an aontais agus a luaithe a tharlaíonn sé sin is fearr. cuireann sé déistin orm freisin nach bhfuil moltaí curtha ar fáil ag an gcoimisiún faoi conas déileáil leis an bhfadhb uafásach seo. tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh na moltaí sin againn i dtreo agus go mbeimid in ann dul i ngleic leis an bhfadhb seo agus freisin i dtaca a bheith in ann chun cur in iúl do dhaoine óga go háirithe buachaillí óga gur cheart dóibh meas a bheith acu ar chailíní agus nár cheart dóibh a lámh a ardú i gcoinne cailín riamh. má thosnaímid ag an gcliabhán, tá an seans ann go gcuirfimid deireadh leis an bhfadhb seo de réir a chéile.
mr president, by 2050 it is estimated that the world’s population will have increased by 2 billion people. at that stage, europe will be 6 % of the world’s population. in those circumstances, i have to ask, as an irish mep, will ireland be better off having a bilateral agreement with china or as part of an eu agreement with china and building on the back of that? i have no doubt that the answer is to build, as part of a 500 million strong bloc negotiating with china. there is no eu-china agreement, there are 26 agreements with china – and i believe this is a timely review of these arrangements. yes, there is asymmetry in trade and that needs to be addressed. however, in the area of services, i think there is an opportunity for us, particularly under the development cooperation instrument, to build and to encourage investment in services both ways. under the development cooperation instrument we may not continue geographic aid to china indefinitely, but there may be an opportunity for thematic aid, because there are parts of china that do need assistance. but there are two areas in particular – urbanisation and challenges with languages – where i believe the european union could assist china and, in return, we could benefit from mutual arrangements with china in the area of tourism. i would like services to receive some highlighting in this agreement.
mr president, i too welcome the proposed bilateral investment agreement between china and the eu. i think it is far preferable to have one at eu level than member states going it alone. there are many reasons for that, but certainly in terms of investment and development and the way the modern world is going, the more arrangements and the closer cooperation we can have with a growing economy like china, the better it is for us and also for them. it should not be viewed as something that has to be done on a 50-50 basis. let us both maximise the opportunities and have an open approach to it. the chinese people are lovely, friendly people, as i discovered when i had the privilege of attending the beijing games. over a year ago, the now prime minister of china came to my constituency and visited a farm there. the farmer had a calf born that day and afterwards he called to say that the calf and the prime minister of china were both doing very well.
a uachtaráin, is breá liom a bheith ag caint ar an ábhar seo chomh maith. i think the learned and wise and experienced mr tannock said it all when he spoke about the progress that taiwan has made. he referred to its financial dynamism and the economic miracle of taiwan, and he said improving trade relations with it makes perfect sense. it certainly does. also, it is perfect timing that we should discuss taiwan almost simultaneously with discussing our relationship with china. they are not mutually exclusive and it is only right that we should try and improve relations with both, particularly when it comes to trade. also, we have to be very mindful of the fact that taiwan espouses democratic principles, as we do, so we have an obligation to try and help it in that regard as well. i welcome the discussion this evening.
madam president, the unhcr has stated that syria is haemorrhaging women, children and men. that metaphor accurately gives a sense of the scale of the humanitarian disaster. more than two million have fled the country and over four million have been internally displaced. they are fleeing to try to escape a brutal civil war and to survive. by the end of the year over ten million people, more than half the population, will be in need of humanitarian assistance. the scale of the movement also indicates how people do not trust or support either assad or the sectarian leaders of the opposition. what stands out here above all, though, is the hypocrisy of the eu. the open doors of some of syria’s neighbours are welcomed but the closed-doors policy of the eu remains: criminalising refugees and militarising european borders with the tragic results that we have seen. the aid given by the eu so far amounts to 20 cents per day per person dependent upon aid. much more money is needed and the eu must open its borders to these refugees. investment is also necessary to provide all the necessary services – housing, education and so on – for all.
madam president, i must say that i am very enthused and excited about what i have heard here this morning. i think, bit by bit, we are putting measures in place that help to complete the single market and make europe work for our citizens, which will help us in due course to get out of the crisis and make us competitive again. tremendous credit is due to the rapporteur, ms vergnaud and people like malcolm harbour, whom i have heard speak about this on several occasions, and indeed also commissioner barnier for his good work in this and in many other areas as well. this is great progress and, in particular, the introduction of the european professional card is what is needed in this situation. the important thing now is that it will be implemented effectively and quickly because, as has been pointed out, 53 % of young people are willing to work in another european country if they are facilitated to do so. i think this is good step in that direction.
madam president, first of all, i would like to commend and thank my colleague, bernadette vergnaud, for the commitment to quality training and patient safety she demonstrated throughout her work on this legislative file. a simpler, faster recognition process will improve not only the ability of professionals to move and work elsewhere in the eu, but also the lives of those who need to avail of their services. however, improved mobility could not be achieved at all costs. this priority had to be balanced with the need to safeguard the health and safety of our patients. the new alert system will prevent healthcare professionals, such as doctors and nurses who have been convicted of a crime or face disciplinary action, from exploiting loopholes in the current legislation and practising abroad, as all eu countries have to be notified of such decisions within three days. the extension of the scope of the directive to trainees is a welcome step forward and will help to improve the conditions of young professionals seeking a future abroad. the professional card, the ability to exchange information electronically among public authorities, and the applicants’ ability to initiate their professional recognition requests with the authorities of their home country all represent improvements. i look forward to seeing this in place.
in writing. − the agreement between parliament and the european central bank (ecb) within the framework of the single supervisory mechanism is a welcome step forward in terms of oversight and democratic accountability – particularly given the scope of the bank’s activity – as part of the eu response to the crises triggered in the eurozone on foot of the near-collapse of the financial sector. the competences with which the ecb is being entrusted in relation to prudential supervision of credit institutions entail significant responsibility for the stability of the eu financial system and the soundness of its credit institutions. the obligations placed on the bank, to submit a yearly report to parliament at a public hearing, to take part in ordinary and ad hoc meetings with parliament and to provide parliament with answers upon request, stem from the imperative to hold it accountable for these new eu powers before a democratically elected institution. the same goes for the requirement that parliament should approve the chair and vice-chair of the ecb supervisory board after a committee hearing.
mr president, on 17 april 2013 parliament, almost by tradition, decided to postpone discharge to the european council and the council for the implementation of the budget of 2011. i voted in favour of the refusal of the discharge, in other words in favour of the report. there was a full consensus among all of the groups on this. the council interprets the rights of the discharge authority differently and continues to refuse to cooperate with parliament with reference to the 1970s gentlemen’s agreement. however, it is very clear that the council needs to be held to the same level of accountability as other institutions. at present this is not the case, so sadly parliament was left with no option but to vote to refuse the discharge of the budget of the european council and the council. during the irish presidency, the then presidency proposed that we establish an interinstitutional working group to negotiate possible solutions to the council’s discharge. i would encourage the lithuanian presidency to implement this proposal so that we can avoid this habitual problem.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith tá meas ag gach feisire ar an gcomhshaol, ach níl an tuairim chéanna againn faoi conas gur ceart aire a thabhairt don chomhshaol. bhí sé sin le feiceáil i rith an lae inniu i gcás na vótaí. ní dóigh liom go bhfaca mé an méid céanna vótaí a bhí chomh cóngarach agus a chonaiceamar inniu. fiú amháin bhí ortsa glaoch rolla a thabhairt isteach dá lán vótaí inniu agus ní raibh ach vóta nó dhó sa difríocht i ngach ceann díobh. dá bhrí sin, caithfimid dul ar aghaidh mar atá. rud amháin ba mhaith liom a rá ná gur vótáil mé féin agus mo chomhghleacaithe ar son measúnú tionchair timpeallachta a thabhairt isteach do shale gas ón tús. is dóigh liom gur ceart é sin a dhéanamh. ní hé sin le rá go bhfuilimid i gcoinne shale gas mar phrionsabal; ach is ceart an measúnú ina leith a bheith ann ón tús. tá na moltaí anois dulta ar ais go dtí an coiste agus tá súil agam gur féidir linn teacht ar réiteach ag deireadh an lae.
mr president, i voted to include mandatory environmental impact assessments for both the exploration and production phases of all non-conventional fossil fuel projects. the fact that the right wing wants to weaken even that basic provision says a lot about the cowboy approach they are taking in their dash for gas. fracking is believed to have already caused small earthquakes and chemicals used in the process can leak into the water supply, threatening public health. some will have seen the film gasland where people are able to set fire to the water coming from their taps as a result of fracking, yet in ireland and across parts of europe politicians do not seem very concerned. in the south, the minister for the environment, phil hogan, has dismissed gasland as a horror film, while in the north, enterprise minister arlene foster has dismissed concerns about the safety of fracking as mere scaremongering. we cannot trust these politicians to look after our environment. i stand with the 64 % of people in europe who are opposed to any shale gas being developed. instead we need massive public investment in research into green energy. this can be funded by taking big oil and gas into public ownership.
mr president, i supported mr zanoni’s report today. there are a lot of positives in today’s vote. for example, we have greater public participation and clear rules on conflict of interest to guarantee the credibility of the entire environmental impact assessment. there were also a number of amendments which sought to ensure that projects that could have a cross-border effect were dealt with and that this would require the consent of all the member states concerned. i know that, for some constituents of mine in west cavan and north leitrim, this will be a positive outcome. however, while it was a positive step to include hydraulic fracking in annex 1 and therefore make it subject to an eia, i was very disappointed that we did not include the exploration evaluation as well as the extraction phase because, as my colleague paul murphy has said, the exploration phase includes drill pads, etc., and certainly can cause damage to the environment. so i was disappointed that we did not include adverse impacts on property values resulting from deterioration of the environment in our report today, but i am pleased that we have decided to send it to the council for negotiation.
in writing. − the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive is one of the most important environmental directives adopted by the eu in the past 30 years. it is meant to ensure informed decision making by requiring that the environmental implications of public and private projects are fully considered before project approval is given. however, application of the directive has long been problematic. of the environmental cases brought before the european court of justice, 12% concern eias, as do 8% of the environment-related petitions received by parliament’s committee on petitions. we need to strengthen the eia directive. we need to broaden its scope, assess risks to human health more effectively, close loopholes that allow developers to avoid assessments, introduce post-eia monitoring, establish ‘one-stop shops’ to ensure compliance with other environmental directives, and require full assessment of relevant alternative projects as well as enhanced public participation and consultation. i particularly welcome parliament’s support for mandatory impact assessments for projects involving exploration for and extraction of non-conventional hydrocarbons, whatever the quantity involved. we cannot cut corners when it comes to protecting our environment and our health.
in writing. − i welcome this report. i voted in favour of amendments 79 and 31, which called for environmental impact assessments to be mandatory for both the exploration phase and the production phase of all unconventional fossil-fuel projects – as is already the case in ireland. the systematic use of deep-drilling and hydraulic-fracturing techniques throughout the entire process means that environmental damage can occur even during the exploration phase. that is why i voted to include not only the extraction phase but also the exploration phase in this report.
in writing. − i support mandatory environmental impact assessments (eias) for shale-gas exploration, evaluation and extraction projects and i voted in favour of this in amendment 79 to the zanoni report. the wording of amendment 126 was not as far-reaching as that of amendment 79 so i did not support it: i considered that it narrowed the scope of the text. however, as the key words ‘exploration, evaluation’ were lost in the plenary vote on amendment 79 (wording that i had voted in favour of), i should have supported amendment 126 as a compromise text and should have changed my vote accordingly, to reflect my full support for mandatory eias starting at the exploration stage, when hydraulic fracturing is used.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it significantly improves the efficiency of the existing legal framework by harmonising and aligning it with newer legislation as well as the lisbon treaty. to do this, it revises and greatly improves safety and environmental requirements, e.g. on noise, exhaust emissions and emergency features. these improvements represent important steps towards a better regulated, safer recreational environment for european citizens.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo agus bhí áthas orm freisin freastal ar an díospóireacht anseo ar maidin agus páirt a ghlacadh inti. thaispeáin an tuarascáil agus na moltaí atá ann cad is féidir a bhaint amach ar son ar saoránach nuair a bhíonn comhoibriú idir gach taobh den teach. gan dabht ar bith tá na moltaí seo an-tábhachtach. go háirithe chun an margadh aonair a chríochnú agus tá moladh faoi leith ag dul don rapóirtéir vergnaud, don choimisinéir barnier, agus go háirithe, is dóigh liom, do chathaoirleach an choiste um an margadh inmheánach agus um chosaint an tomhaltóra, malcolm harbour, a dhéanann an-chuid oibre ar fad. rud amháin, is fiú a lua ná an cárta proifisiúnta eorpach. tabharfaidh sé sin an-seans do dhaoine a bhfuil fonn orthu dul ag obair í dtír eile é sin a dhéanamh amach anseo. is dul chun cinn maith é seo, agus táim sásta go raibh an t-ábhar seo á phlé anseo againn inniu agus gur vótálas ina fhabhar.
i scríbhinn. − ós rud é go bhfuil an tsoghluaisteacht ghairmiúil i gcroílár chumas iomaíochais ae agus go bhfuil sí riachtanach ó thaobh dul i ngleic leis an dífhostaíocht san eoraip de, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála tráthúla tábhachtaí seo. fearaim fáilte ar leith roimh na bearta simpliúcháin agus roimh an togra maidir le cárta gairmiúil eorpach a thabhairt isteach. de réir staidéar pan-eorpach a rinneadh le déanaí, tá 53 % d’aos óg na heorpa sásta nó cíocrach dul ag obair i dtír eorpach eile. ní mór go mbeadh córas i bhfeidhm chun cúrsaí soghluaisteachta a éascú agus go mbeadh aitheantas trasteorann á thabhairt do scileanna agus cáilíochtaí daoine óga agus gan an-iomarca riaracháin a bheith i gceist leis sin. anuas ar sin, ní foláir go gcuirfí i bhfeidhm gan mhoill na bearta i dtaca lena chinntiú nach mbíonn gairmithe san earnáil sláinte – m.sh. dochtúirí, banaltraí, poitigéirí agus oibrithe cúraim leanaí – a fhaightear ciontach i mí-iompar gairmiúil nó coiriúil ina dtír féin in ann a bheith ag obair i mballstát eile san eoraip. ní sé leath maith go leor nach bhfuil bearta chuige sin i bhfeidhm cheana. ní mór tús áite a thabhairt i gcónaí do shábháilteacht daoine agus othar atá leochaileach.
in writing. − the 2005 professional qualifications directive provides a mechanism for the recognition of professional qualifications, i.e. qualifications needed to pursue a regulated profession. the introduction of a european ‘professional card’, under the revised directive, will streamline processes for the recognition of qualifications and make life easier for people who want to work in other eu member states. i particularly welcome the fact that this card will cover internships and professional training carried out in other member states. i also welcome the adoption of the new alert system, whereby if a professional has been convicted of an offence or suspended from practising in one member state, all the other member states will be informed within three days. this should ensure better protection for patients and greater public safety, as well as enabling citizens to have more confidence in professionals.
mr president, in my opinion this was a very odd vote today. efsa are the scientists, they approved a health claim on carbohydrates, namely that they contribute to the maintenance of normal health function, as indeed they do. but we do not like the message, because of the fact that sugar is a carbohydrate. so we decide that, although the science is right, the message is wrong and we say no. yet, on many other occasions, we say that we have to base our decisions on a scientific basis. so i find it quite contradictory. for example, at one point efsa would not stand over the claim that prunes keep you regular. mind you, they subsequently changed their mind. at the moment they have rejected all claims on probiotics, yet hundreds of peer-reviewed reports clearly show that probiotics do aid gut health. in ireland we are in a position that we are not even able to use the words probiotic or prebiotic to advertise products. indeed, somebody working in a health food shop will not be able to recommend probiotics. the whole thing is a crazy situation. it is contradictory and we need to sort out the mess. today’s vote was just another example of it.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don tuarascáil seo, mar is dóigh liom gur ceart dúinn comhaontú trádála a bheith againn leis an tsín. tá ceann cheana againn leis an gcóiré theas; táimid ag tosú ar cheann a dhéanamh leis an tseapáin agus leis na stáit aontaithe – an ttip. agus ós rud é go bhfuil níos mó ná billiún duine sa tsín, déanfaidh sé maitheas dár saoránaigh más féidir linn comhaontú trádála a bheith againn leis an tsín chomh maith. maidir leis an vóta, thug ár ngrúpa saorvóta dúinn maidir le mír 26, is é sin nach mbeadh cúrsaí cultúrtha ar an tábla ón tús. vótáil mé agus mo chomhghleacaithe i gcoinne an mholta sin, mar is dóigh liom gur ceart gach rud a chur ar an tábla ón tús agus murar féidir na deacrachtaí a shárú is féidir linn é a thógaint ón tábla.
in writing. − i welcome the strengthening of economic relations between the eu and china. i sincerely hope that the eu and china can pursue a well-balanced relationship of partnership, regular high-level dialogue and mutual benefits rather than engaging in confrontational competition. the deepening of eu-china relations is especially good news for the irish agricultural export sector; there is a need for our dairy products in particular on the chinese market.
a uachtaráin, arís is dóigh liom gur feiliúnach a bheith ag caint agus ag vótáil ar ghaolta trádála níos cóngaraí a bheith againn leis an téaváin ar an lá céanna a bhfuil plé againn faoi chomhaontú leis an tsín. is maith san. freisin, caithfimid smaoineamh go bhfuil an daonlathas an-tábhachtach don téaváin agus is bunphrionsabal é do gach tír san aontas eorpach; sin cúis eile gur chóir dúinn gaolta cóngaracha a bheith againn leo. fiú amháin tíortha eile cosúil leis an nua-shéalainn, nach dtugann aitheantas ach don tsín amháin, tá siad ag obair ar ghaolta trádála cóngaracha a bheith acu leis an téaváin. is iontach an dul chun cinn atá déanta ag an téaváin, agus tá táirgí teicneolaíochta acu níos fearr, is dócha, ná mar atá ag aon tír eile ar domhan. dá bhrí sin, cabhróidh sé linne a bheith ag obair agus ag comhoibriú leo amach anseo.
in writing. − i consider myself to be a friend of taiwan and so i would openly encourage the deepening of trade relations with taiwan. an eu-taiwan trade agreement would prove beneficial to all. the eu and taiwan already have a well-integrated economic relationship, generally low customs duties on both sides and a well structured dialogue, involving regular meetings to solve bilateral trade and investment issues. now is the time to take this further and enter into negotiations on a bilateral eu-taiwan trade agreement.
in writing. − we voted to support the position of the transport committee in rejecting the draft commission implementing regulation. having met and spoken with airline pilots in advance of this vote it was clear that they had very real concerns with regard to the safety implications of the proposal. the proposal has been met with strong objections from pilots across the european union and represented a retrograde step in terms of flight safety and combating pilot fatigue. many of the recommended points are in contradiction with available scientific evidence on best practice for the principal factors of fatigue, night hours and sleep deprivation. those working in the sector consider that the commission has not taken all scientific evidence into consideration. a key concern is that the commission has failed to provide sufficient scientific evidence to remove reasonable doubts about the safety risk in the areas of night hours and sleep deprivation. it is clear that it is necessary to adopt new rules to prevent air crew fatigue and we support the resolution’s invitation for the commission to come forward, as a matter of urgency, with a new proposal which puts air transport safety and the working conditions of air crew staff at its core.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution to reject the new flight-time limitations rules and am disappointed that this resolution was not adopted. air passengers must be fully assured that the eu is doing everything possible to ensure safe flying time limits and minimum rest periods for pilots. i have been contacted by many pilots from ireland and elsewhere across europe over the past year who expressed their genuine concerns about the new rules. specifically, that they disregarded scientific advice, ran counter to the precautionary principle and allowed dangerous flight schedules. i believe that it would have been a wiser decision to reject the new rules, and to ask the commission to prepare a new and more comprehensive proposal, without delay, that addressed these concerns. europe is the safest place on earth to fly. we now have to be extra vigilant that it stays that way. the commission should look again at this issue if it emerges that the new rules are causing pilot fatigue.
in writing. − who wants to fly in a plane when the pilot has been awake for 22 hours? the european commission apparently does – and parliament, disgracefully, has just missed an important opportunity to block their proposals and stand up for the rights and safety of passengers, pilots and cabin crew alike. it has been pointed out many times over by experts and pilots’ associations alike that the commission’s proposals are not scientifically based and that they pose a threat to safety. doing up to eight hours of standby duties followed by up to 14 hours of flight duties is fundamentally unsafe. the privatisation of the aviation sector, together with neoliberal reforms, has led to a race to the bottom in the industry – a race led by the likes of ryanair. in such a climate the desire to make a quick profit is put ahead of safety. i want to express my solidarity with all pilots and crew who waged an important struggle against this revision. this struggle must continue, and as much pressure as possible should be put on the commission by means of escalating protests, including industrial action.
in writing. − the syrian refugee problem is a human tragedy of epic proportions. the eu cannot be found wanting in responding to this crisis. one hundred thousand people are dead, five million are displaced within syria and over two million have fled to neighbouring countries. palestinian refugees once again find themselves without a state. three quarters of refugees are women and children. we, the eu, have a responsibility to the men, women and young children who have been torn from the security of their homes and homeland and left without a nation; homeless, starving, sick and with little hope for the future or their familiesʼ future. the neighbouring states of jordan, lebanon and turkey are shouldering most of the economic and social repercussions of this huge influx of refugees. these are fragile states themselves and are finding it increasingly difficult to meet the refugeesʼ housing, education and health needs. the eu has given over eur 1.5 billion in humanitarian funding to date. ireland has provided almost eur 14 million over the past two years. i welcome the motion urging syria’s neighbouring countries to keep their borders open but we have a responsibility to provide these countries with financial and practical support to help them manage.
madam president, pavlos fyssas was murdered by golden dawn. left activists have been attacked in the streets. immigrants have been hounded and have been killed and here we have a debate where speaker after speaker of the right uses their speeches to equate the far right with the far left. it is disgusting, it is cheap and it does no justice to the memory of pavlos fyssas, who was of course a left activist. now the greek government, the greek establishment, is trying to wash its hands of responsibility for golden dawn, but let us not forget that until recently it stood idly by; it did nothing while golden dawn acted with impunity. let us not forget it tolerated a close cooperation between its police apparatus and this band of criminals. let us not forget that its vicious austerity pushed millions of people into desperation, into poverty, and created the breeding ground for golden dawn’s reactionary politics, strengthened by their own racist and anti-immigration policies. anti-fascists can have no truck with and no trust in the capitalist so-called fight against fascism. they need to build committees from below to defend immigrants, to fight against the far right and attack the roots of this disease. as berthold brecht said, fascism can only be fought as capitalism alone, as the most naked, the most shameless, most oppressive and most treacherous form of capitalism.
mr president, a recent report by open society justice initiative confirms what irish people have known for quite a long time, that ireland is one of 54 countries which helped facilitate the use of illegal actions by the cia by permitting the use of its airspace and airports for fights associated with the so-called ‘extraordinary rendition’. in 2005, the then government stated that inspections of military planes in shannon were not necessary because it had received assurances from the us administration that detainees had not been and would not be transported illegally through irish territory. but it is undeniable that successive irish governments have known that rendition flights did travel through ireland and they knew that this violated international conventions on torture. but for the sake of maintaining good relations, a special relationship with the us, they did nothing except cover up kidnapping and torture. that is a microcosm for what has happened across europe. the secret detention centres have to be closed. the rendition flights have to be ended. all those [detained] have to be either released, or charged and given a fair trial.
madam president, the deaths of over 200 refugees off the coast of lampedusa are the tragic and bitter fruits of fortress europe. they are shamefully only the most recent deaths and victims of an eu war against migrants. only 4 days earlier, 13 migrants were drowned by being forced overboard by human traffickers close to the sicilian coast. almost 20 000 such deaths have been recorded in the past two decades. each time we have another of these tragedies european leaders travel to the site, offer condolences and promise a political response. but the commission’s solution here is the new border surveillance system, eurosur. it claims that the system will help authorities to rescue migrants. it will not: it is about the further militarisation of european borders; it has a heavy participation of weapons manufacturers like britain’s bae; it goes along with oparus (open architecture for unmanned aerial vehicle-based surveillance), involving many of the same companies, even examining the question of drones to detect refugees entering europe. we need to break and end racist immigration policies in europe. an alternative is needed to the misery of capitalism and war, which forces millions to leave their homes and risk their lives in the search for a better life.
madam president, in the one minute available to me, i would like, as chairman of the delegation with responsibility for the eea, to express our thanks to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for raising this important topic. on the eea, we believe that the eea review needs to take into account the development of the single market, notably in relation to the transposition, implementation and monitoring of single market legislation. as the commissioner said, 20 years have gone by and it is a different world. in relation to andorra, monaco and san marino, we recently held an exchange of views with their ambassadors. i understand that the discussions between these countries and the eu are still ongoing and that the eea framework is an important reference point for talks. i am pleased to hear that the commission has adopted a communication, and we look forward to the report on switzerland. we have had an excellent dialogue with the european external action service. it appears to me that the eeas, the council and parliament are in agreement on the broad aims and principles. in conclusion, i believe that the new institutional framework should also contain an interparliamentary pillar that would allow this parliament to make a positive contribution.
mr president, i would like to thank our committee chair, eva joly, for highlighting the issue of caste-based discrimination through her report. i think she has done a singular service in uniting this house to highlight this issue. i should also like to support the comments made by michael cashman earlier in the debate. we really do have to be much more proactive in ensuring that we take boycott action against those countries that continue to treat people in this way. i commend the messages in the report, in particular the need for the eu to recognise caste-based discrimination as a distinct form of discrimination which must be tackled with other forms of discrimination, such as discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, disability, race, religion, gender and sexuality. i am glad that our colleague mr gustafsson, the chair of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, raised the issue of dalit women. they are among the most severely exploited, including sexually exploited. they often suffer from sexual violence, sexual slavery, bonded labour and limited access to food or sanitation. this is in the 21st century. it is an extraordinary thing. but this caste-based discrimination is not confined to asia. i spoke to a young man in dublin as last weekend. his name is robin, he is an asian and he appealed to me to raise this issue because in parts of europe the trend continues. so i am really delighted that our committee chair has taken the initiative on this, that she has put this issue firmly on the agenda and that there is strong cross-party support for it. i hope that communicates itself to the commission and that collectively we can challenge this issue, which has been allowed to fester for far too long.
mr president, i think it is important that we discuss this topic here today. particularly with advances in technology, with the power of the internet and so forth, we can get ideas, particularly the values of human rights, taken on board right across the world in due course – far quicker than has been the case in the past. they say that all men and women are born equal, but some more equal than others. that is something that is true maybe in relation to opportunities and discrimination that might exist in our own countries. but certainly where caste-based discrimination is practised, once they are born they are unequal and they are unequal until they die. that is something that is not acceptable and i concur fully with what my great colleague mr mitchell has said. indeed i compliment him on the huge work he has done on the whole area of development aid, etc., over many years. that is something that we should put into development aid, to ensure that human rights for all is part of it as well.
mr president, if you are not considered human, human rights do not apply to you. they are the words of moni rani das, a bangladeshi dalit women’s activist. i think they sum up the problem facing 260 million people affected by caste-based discrimination. the stories that you hear are horrific: the countless rapes of young women to which police turn a blind eye; the story of chanchal kumari, a 19-year-old student who suffered a vicious acid attack simply for daring to ignore teenage boys; or the heart-breaking stories of young children who cannot understand why other children refuse to play with them. but of course caste discrimination, as has been mentioned, is not confined to asia. in britain the disgraceful attempts of the government to block or delay the extension of equality legislation to include caste-based discrimination should be condemned. while it is illegal in most countries, it does not stop human rights violations, exclusion, torture, rape, slavery and murder being a daily reality for many. but the growing number of brave, oppressed caste activists raising their voices shows a way forward. linked with the struggles of other workers and the poor, an alternative society based on equality and solidarity can be built and this barbaric feudal remnant can be consigned to the dustbin of history.
mr president, russia’s new legislation which bans the so-called promotion of untraditional sexual relations has unleashed a wave of reactionary anti-lgbti violence. it is not that surprising, because that was precisely the point of the legislation: to send a clear message that the state condones violence against gay people. the results are available for all to see on youtube, with far-right homophobic groups with disgusting names like ‘occupy paedophilia’ and ‘occupy gerontophilia’, torturing and beating up lgbti people. friends and comrades of my own in russia, for example igor yasin from socialist resistance, have repeatedly been arrested by the authorities for taking part in lgbti rallies and been beaten up by paramilitary thugs for speaking out against racism and for rights. this new law is part of a general clampdown on democratic rights, with the incredible 100-year ban on pride taking place in moscow, the disgraceful prison conditions that forced the pussy riot member into hunger strike, and the outrageous arrests of greenpeace activists. as often happens, it is the lgbti community that is on the frontline of oppression, and injury to one is an injury to all. all those who stand for democratic rights, who stand for workers’ rights, must take a clear stand against it.
a uachtaráin, is feiliúnach dúinn tuarascáil an choiste seo a phlé ar maidin, go háirithe ós rud é gurb í seo bliain an tsaoránaigh, mar geibheann a lán saoránach cluas a éisteann leo agus cinneadh a thugann cothrom na féinne dóibh anseo sa pharlaimint nuair nach mbíonn sé ar fáil ina dtír féin. ní nach ionadh mar sin gur cláraíodh 1 985 achainí anuraidh agus fuarthas go raibh 1 408 díobh inghlactha. sin 70 %. tá sé sin sásúil, ach d’fhéadfadh sé a bheith níos sásúla agus níos airde dá mbeadh téarmaí níos leithne ag an gcoiste agus dá mbeadh na téarmaí sin ar eolas ag saoránaigh. bíodh sin mar atá, caithfidh mé a rá go raibh mé ar thascfhórsa ar shaoránacht ghníomhach i mo thír féin cúpla bliain ó shin. rinneamar a lán moltaí. tá áthas orm a rá, gur glacadh le ceann de na moltaí sin ag an rialtas atá againn faoi láthair: is é sin, tá siad tar éis coiste um achainíocha a bhunú sa pharlaimint díreach cosúil leis an gcoiste atá againn anseo. b’fhiú do thíortha eile féachaint leis an rud sin a dhéanamh chomh maith. ba mhaith liom a rá freisin, go raibh sé de phribhléid agam cúpla bliain ó shin achainí a thabhairt os comhair an choiste maidir le mo dhúiche féin. bhí ionad dumpála nimhiúil in haulbowline; thugamar an cás os comhair an choiste; fuarthas ina fhabhar agus dá bharr sin thug an rialtas eur 40 milliún chun an t-ionad dumpála sin a ghlanadh. agus anois, tá an áit i bhfad níos sláintiúla agus i bhfad níos sábháilte agus beidh níos lú ailse san áit sin de bharr an chinnidh a rinne an coiste an uair sin. sin eiseamláir den dea-obair a dhéanann an coiste.
mr president, as a former member of the petitions committee and a keen watcher of it, i want to thank the rapporteur and indeed those who have stayed on this committee. i think it is one of the most difficult ones to be a member of, because you have to be multi-functional in terms of the issues you deal with. i think it is important at this juncture that the petitions committee shouldn’t over-promise petitioners. i have been concerned in the past for petitioners who were brought to committee meetings and had great expectations that things would be done. this is very damaging to our credibility. there is a petitioner, dan brennan, from ireland, whose case has been on the books for a long time. we really have not delivered for him and i think that sometimes we over-promised in the beginning. it is a criticism we need to take on the chin. on the other hand there is equitable life, which i think we did really good work on in the first mandate. petitioners are being paid out to as a result of the work of this parliament and the petitions committee and its staff. we also need to watch out that enough is being paid to these petitioners. but we do some good work, and that is really key. so well done to those that are on the committee and thank you for this report.
mr president, i am very conscious of the fact that we have visitor groups in parliament and that, although the title of this debate is quite dull, what we are debating is extremely serious and of great importance to our visitors as well as to citizens in general. under the irish presidency, minister phil hogan in particular was instrumental in ensuring that we would have an agreement which provides certainty – not only for industry but also for the environment and public health – that these dangerous metals will be eradicated from particular batteries. i had a group of visitors with me in parliament yesterday and it was very interesting to hear what they thought of europe. i mentioned to them that, when it comes to waste disposal, the initiative – certainly in ireland – would not have happened without the european union pushing various directives, including this one. it happened slowly but when europe makes decisions you do see the effect and this always benefits public health and environmental protection in the long term. i welcome this.
mr president, i would particularly like to compliment the rapporteur, not only on his good work in this important area – though it may not be the sexiest in the world, it is of great importance to citizens – but also for the wonderful, practical explanation he gave of the work being carried out, especially as regards emphasising the need for a less costly transition and protection of the environment and human health, and also for pointing out that five tonnes of mercury seep into the environment every year. obviously something needs to be done about that and, thanks to his good work and that of the committee, this is now being addressed. my two expert colleagues behind me spoke about power tools and the need for these to be upgraded and improved by looking at the contents of their batteries. one thing i would like to stress is that we need to place more emphasis on recycling because many batteries are just being dumped. while people are actually very conscientious when it comes to recycling paper, glass and the like, they are not aware of the need to recycle batteries.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo agus is dóigh liom gur maith an rud é gur ghlac an chuid is mó de na feisirí leo chomh maith. ní thuigeann a lán daoine an damáiste, is dóigh liom, a dhéanann batairí don chomhshaol agus do shláinte na ndaoine. bhí rosa ansin ag caint faoi mercury, agus i ndáiríre éalaíonn 5 thona mercury isteach sa chomhshaol gach uile bhliain. de bharr an chinnidh atá déanta againn inniu, tiocfaidh feabhas ar an scéal sin agus laghdóidh an méid mercury atá ag dul isteach sa chomhshaol. mar a dúirt an tuasal jahr, ní thuigeann a lán daoine gur ceart dóibh rud éigin níos fearr a dhéanamh leis na batairí atá ídithe ná iad a chaitheamh isteach sa bhosca. ba chóir dúinn oideachas a thabhairt do dhaoine faoi sin agus go mbeadh sé níos éasca dóibh iad a mhalartú nuair a bhíonn siad ag ceannach batairí nua.
in writing. − i voted against this report, as it is full of assumptions and unproven allegations and involves politically bashing a number of epp-governed member states. there were also a number of factually wrong statements and recommendations that exceeded the competences of parliament and the eu, and therefore i could not give my support on this issue.
in writing. − i welcomed this proposal, as sharing operational information and cooperating help authorities to carry out border surveillance activities. the report aims to reduce the loss of life at sea, to combat irregular migration and to increase internal security by preventing cross-border crime. i am very much in favour of reform here, as there should be an effective system in place to address the ever-growing problem of border crime.
mr president, i too was pleased to vote in favour of these proposals and i think also they are timely. it is said that all people are born equal but that is certainly not the case where caste-based discrimination is practiced, unfortunately it has been going on for thousands of years, as mr tannock rightly pointed out. nevertheless, at least we are lucky enough in the western world where we are lucky to be, that regardless of who your parents are, in theory at least, you have an opportunity through education, through determination, to improve your lot in the world. unfortunately this is not the case in the caste-based system and certainly we must use every initiative we have to try and change that. i would also think that with the growth in smartphones, the internet and social media, we may be able to influence that situation as well from the ground up.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí an-áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo go léir agus vótáil ina bhfabhar. gan dabht ar bith tá an-jab ar fad á dhéanamh ag an gcoiste um achainíocha sa pharlaimint le fada an lá. tá níos mó dár saoránaigh ag éisteacht agus ag cur isteach achainíocha dá bharr. nuair nach bhfaigheann siad cothrom na féinne ina dtír féin, is féidir leo teacht anseo. anuraidh, fuaireamar beagnach 2 000 achainí agus d’éirigh lena lán díobh. dá bhrí sin, is léir go bhfuil jab an-mhaith á dhéanamh againn; go bhfuil sé á dhéanamh go neamhspleách agus go bhfuil sé ag leanúint ar aghaidh mar ba chóir. freisin, bhí sé suimiúil gur tháinig 70 % de na hachainíocha isteach ar ríomhphost agus gur tháinig 30 % isteach ar pháipéar. taispeánann sé sin go bhfuil a lán dul chun cinn á dhéanamh agus feabhsóidh sé amach anseo.
in writing. − i am a very active member of the committee on petitions and i always look forward to the annual report on the committee’s activities. in 2012, the committee afforded 1 985 citizens the opportunity to dialogue directly with the european parliament. the right to petition parliament is a long-standing right, conferred by article 277 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and by article 44 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. environmental issues, the rights of persons with disabilities, children’s rights, the right of free movement and the right of access to documents and information were the main subjects of petitions submitted. the greatest task that the committee on petitions faces is to raise its profile among eu citizens.
in writing. − the nature of the cases brought before parliament’s committee on petitions denotes ongoing concern about the application of eu law in the fields of fundamental rights, the environment and the internal market. discrimination, disability rights, the rights of children, our citizens’ freedom of information and the portability of social security entitlements are critical areas in which member states must bring national provisions into line with the treaties. the commission must take vigorous action to compel member states to comply with, transpose and correctly implement the applicable eu law. the commission must remain alert to ensure effective freedom of movement for eu citizens’ families, which, in the cases of registered partnerships, same-sex couples or household members other than spouses, often face obstacles. i share the committee’s view that the technical and bureaucratic hurdles faced by citizens and the varying procedures employed by national administrations to deal with european citizens’ initiatives warrant the bringing forward of a review of the relevant eu regulation.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, socialists on the left condemn sectarian violence against all minorities, regardless of whether they are religious believers, non-believers or members of ethnic minority groups. the dramatic increase in sectarian violence in syria, pakistan and iran is an expression of the general instability and volatility in that region of the world, but this increase is not limited to those states that are listed which, coincidentally, happen to be the same states that are currently not in favour with western imperialism. in reality the upsurges of sectarian violence, including against christians, are all spillover effects of various crisis situations that have destabilised the region and have deepened divisions along various ethnic and religious lines. some of those dividing lines have been deliberately exploited by imperialist forces to serve their own interests, for example in afghanistan or iraq. the strategy of divide and rule has created its own dynamics, much as goethe described in the sorcerer’s apprentice, ‘sir, my need is sore. spirits that i’ve cited my commands ignore’. the only way to halt the breeding ground for sectarian violence is the prospect of a secure, stable and decent future for all. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i agree that we should not be talking about ‘good victims’ and ‘bad victims’. i condemn all sectarian violence, that is precisely what i said; but what there is an attempt to do, repeatedly, in this parliament is to create ‘good’ or at least ‘better’ victims who are the christians – we are europe, we are christendom, we look after christians all around the world – and the other victims of sectarianism are often ignored. i think all sectarian violence should be equally condemned by this parliament.
mr president, firstly i welcome today’s condemnations from all sides of the house of the persecution of christians. this is a topic that resonates with christians in particular and especially with my party, the christian democrat party, particularly on a day on which our president, mr martens, died. he was rightly described by mr schulz as being a devout catholic all his life. the future of christians in many of these countries is at stake here. if things continue the way they are, they will be wiped out. not only are christians being persecuted and murdered, but churches are being destroyed and statues, particularly of our lady, are being broken up. we are the biggest single donor of development aid to many of these countries. we will have to get far tougher to ensure that the authorities in these countries protect christians. we are europe; we have a christian heritage and i think it is only right and fair that we should stand up for our christians because, if we do not do it, i cannot see anyone else doing it.
mr president, this is a very important debate. the persecution of christians is nothing new, sadly, but i think it is very important that we deal with these recent cases, because globally we know that people of christian faith are the most, if you like, persecuted amongst religious groups, and the european parliament has a duty to reflect that. i want to support seán kelly who mentioned wilfried martens, who has sadly passed away. i was very touched by the tribute paid to him by the president of the house this morning, where he said he was a committed catholic, a committed christian democrat and a committed european. i think it is somewhat fitting that on the occasion of his passing this house is discussing the persecution of christians globally. we need to speak up for people of faith who are gentle, they want to live their lives with their families, go about their work as we all do, without persecution, and they want religious freedom. i hope that this debate will support them in that.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, four days ago in baghdad, 51 people were killed and 107 others were wounded in a suicide attack that targeted shi’ite pilgrims. that is the devastating reality of iraq today: a country of escalating violence where, according to the un, 800 people were killed in august alone. we have also seen what can only be described as a brutal massacre at camp ashraf with 52 unarmed people killed and seven taken hostage by iraqi forces. the responsibility for these attacks lies not just with the various sectarian murder gangs, but also with those who cheer-led and actually implemented the war and occupation of iraq. they had no qualms about imposing a puppet regime to continue the repression and inequality, and they had no qualms about promoting sectarian division, from imposing a parliament along ethnic lines to arming sectarian death squads. imperialism and capitalism have demonstrated that they are fundamentally incapable of resolving the problems of sectarian violence. what is needed is a powerful united movement of the iraqi working class which can undermine the sectarian forces and use the massive wealth in iraq to build a socialist society free from poverty and division.
a uachtaráin, is cóir agus is ceart dúinn an foréigean atá go forleathan san iaráic a cháineadh, agus cinnte má leanann sé ar aghaidh mar atá titfidh an tír ar gcúl agus beidh cogadh cathartha uafásach ann. tá a lán samplaí den fhoréigean sin ann, ach an ceann is measa is dócha ná an ceann a tharla ar an gcéad lá de mheán fómhair i gcampa ashraf, mar ar maraíodh, mar a dúrt, 52 dhuine ón iaráin agus tógadh seachtar i gcoinne a dtola – seisear ban ina measc. mar a dúirt baroness ashton, is dócha go bhfuil siad in baghdad agus caithfimid a iarraidh ar údaráis na hiaráice iad a scaoileadh saor láithreach. freisin, caithfimid a iarraidh ar údaráis na hiaráice comhoibriú le hiniúchadh neamhspleách idirnáisiúnta chun a fháil amach cé hiad na sceimhlitheoirí, iad a thabhairt os comhair cúirte agus pionós a ghearradh orthu.
madam president, i listened to this debate because it is a very crucial one. and yet, if we were to look up at the citizens who are listening, their needs and their concerns might be more immediate – about jobs and about growth. i think there has been a real failure by us in this chamber and outside to communicate how real climate change is and how we need to tackle it. i heard one colleague mention a slogan: ‘ditching carbon’. i think if we went out to our elections next year with a poster saying ‘ditching carbon’, i do not think it would work. so there is a disconnect between the real work that we have got to do and the success of this conference, and what citizens are talking about. yes, on efficiency: i think that rings bells. people want – and know the importance of – saving energy. but could i challenge you on renewables, for example? in ireland, plans for large-scale wind farming have raised huge concerns amongst citizens in those areas. so we are at risk in some of the renewable sectors of citizens not quite being on the same plane as perhaps the policy drivers are, and i think these are real issues which need to be addressed. i would like to say to the commissioner that i mentioned on one occasion the issue of agriculture and emissions and, commissioner, i think we need to talk about this. how do we produce food in a way that is sustainable from a perspective of co2 and greenhouse gas emissions? we must and we will talk about it, but it something that we may need to compromise on. agriculture and food are fundamental to our economies, so we may not be able to drive down emissions as much as we might wish in this regard without some good science and innovation.
mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur and the commission. this report goes to show – and all of us in this house probably use some of these products – that the criminals involved in the drug trade will use anything they can, in any way they can, to manufacture drugs. they are using legal medicines for illegal purposes. the report therefore makes a great deal of sense. the idea of having a new schedule also makes sense, so that the commission can upgrade the list with new substances as they come along. already in member states there are restrictions on these two products – ephedrine and pseudoephedrine – so that they cannot be bought over the counter and used in measures that would cause health problems. but we are talking here about cases where large quantities are diverted for illegal purposes. this initiative will allow member states to take action and seize products in an effective way. so let us put this in place immediately and let us ensure that it delivers results.
mr president, last tuesday, while attacking the old and sick, the irish government unleashed the latest phase of its attack on young people. unemployment benefits have been slashed by almost a third for those aged between 22 and 25, and eur 35 million has been cut from young people directly. this economic war is accompanied by an ideological war, a demonisation of those who are unemployed. enda kenny has denounced a non-existent welfare culture, and a labour td defended the cuts by saying that young people should not be permanently in front of flat screen tvs. the message from the government, from fine gael and from labour is very clear. to the unemployed – victims of the austerity policies and the system defended by the political establishment – it is saying: it is your fault that you are unemployed. it is your fault because you are lazy, because you do not have enough motivation, because you do not have enough training or enough education. this slander must be rejected. young people have to mobilise to defend their rights and to declare: we are not leaving. we will not be forced into emigration and we demand investment in jobs, in education and in real training. young and old should come out to protest tomorrow at 13:00 in front of the dail, where a protest meeting called by the senior citizens parliament is to be held. then on wednesday people should join in the ‘dail queue’ at 12:00 on kildare street to show this government what the attack means to you.
mr president, it was the great irish american politician tip o’neill who said that all politics is local, and that is absolutely correct. while policies may be made at national level, their application at local level is what really impacts on peoples’ lives. for that reason it is important that we are emphasising and discussing this issue tonight. i compliment the rapporteur on her recommendations. in my country, our minister has recently introduced the greatest reform of local government ever since the state was founded, abolishing some small town councils, amalgamating some county councils, etc, and reducing the number of elected politicians, but particularly, i think, trying to get more authority and focus at local level to deal with the major issues which the rapporteur pointed out, and especially to show people that taxes that are collected locally stay locally to deal with local problems. if people see that, they will have a much happier and better approach to government.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very detailed and collaborative work with the shadows. this piece of legislation affects every single citizen of europe. i think that is an absolute fact – if not now, then certainly in the future. so it is absolutely crucial that we get it right. i think what is of concern to us is that people did not understand how the system worked. let us be absolutely clear: the industry works with notified bodies, and they certify the product. in theory, that should work very well, but examples have shown where it has failed us. so we are trying to improve on this position. it is a pity it takes a crisis to provoke action, but already there have been huge improvements in the system. i think it is worth stating for the record here in plenary that the commission and the member states have carried out joint audits of notified bodies. you have had eleven to date, and in two cases notified bodies have been asked temporarily to stop working. so when you check, you get results. that is what we are trying to do in reviewing the medical devices legislation. i want to mention four key points: one is to strengthen special notified bodies. we are doing that, and i think it is very important with high-risk devices that only specialised notified bodies are able to certify these products. secondly, we have an additional layer of scrutiny in particular cases where products demand that additional scrutiny, and we have details in the text. but we also need much tighter post-market surveillance, so that when a problem is detected there is feedback of that information right through the system and there is a rapid reaction to it. i think that is crucial for the effective regulation of medical devices. commissioner, you mentioned the issue of the reprocessing of medical devices. this is very complex, and i think we need to stick closely to the commission proposal. however, i think we need more careful consideration of this. some member states ban reprocessing, others allow it; some have standards, others do not. i would ask that you come back to us with a detailed proposal on that issue in the future.
mr president, like other speakers, i have listened to the entire debate here in the chamber this morning. what i would say is that those people who have had defective products and implants put into their bodies, which require them to undergo constant care, constant hospital attendances, reassessments and re-evaluating their status and what the product was put in their body for and whether it is going to deteriorate and cause them undue hardship – it is and it does. they worry about having these defective products in their bodies, and it is often very costly to have them corrected. i think any legislation to improve the licensing of these products that are deemed fit for use should never come under the aegis of cost. they should be fit for purpose, they should be safe and they should be in the best interest of the patient.
mr president, it is strange that we are actually talking about 2014, given that we postponed the vote on the mff. you may shrug your shoulders, commissioner, but i think lots of people are confused about what is going on, and i do not think that is helpful. budgetary processes are complex, and i compliment those on the committee on budgetary affairs who are trying to make sense of a situation which appears quite senseless to many of us. there are a few points that i think are worth making. there is a debate amongst the populace: cut the budget. it sounds good back home, but when you cut the european union budget, you cut the budget back home too, because europe can do less. i want, in particular, to express some concerns about the delayed vote on the mff. the committee on agriculture and rural development has voted through the reform of the common agricultural policy. it kicks in on 1 january 2014. we need clarity around the budget to make sure that the payments, which are vital to all farmers across the european union, are maintained.
madam president, i was happy to support this report because currently the legislation that ...(interruption from the president)i was happy to support this report because the legislation we currently have in place is not robust enough to fully ensure that low-quality, in vitro medical devices are not placed on the market. we have a duty with regard to patient safety; indeed, that is our first duty. but it is not our only duty. we also have to ensure that we have a streamlined, effective system which ensures new technologies get to market as soon as they are fully approved. the principle of subsidiarity is also important, and the issue of prescription policies for class d devices should be at national level and not at eu level, in my view. this proposal regulates products’ safety, and not medical or other practices set out at national level. finally, i was fully supportive of the alde amendments put forward with our epp colleagues, which aligned our position with that on the medical devices directive.
madam president, while i welcome this regulation, which was the result of the french breast implant scandal, i would warn against knee-jerk legislation. i welcome the decision today to refer the report back to committee. when adopted, this regulation will replace the existing directive, and we hope it will address inconsistencies in member states’ interpretation of current rules, thus increasing the protection of public health and safety and removing obstacles to the internal and external market. medical devices are a very large employer in my country, employing 25 000 people in total. my constituency, particularly galway, is very dependent on this industry. therefore it was important that this report not place unnecessary barriers on manufacturers. this is a highly sensitive and technical area. i welcome the opportunity to dedicate further time to this report in order to ensure that we get the balance right. essentially we need to guarantee the highest level of consumer protection but also avoid placing unnecessary burdens on manufacturers.
in writing. − while i welcome this regulation, which was a result of the french breast implant scandal, i would warn against ‘knee-jerkʼ legislation which may hinder medical progress. that is why i welcome the referral of this report back to committee. protection of consumers is paramount. medical devices are a very large employer in ireland, employing 25 000 people in total. my constituency, particularly galway, is very dependent on this industry and it was therefore very important that this report not place unnecessary barriers on manufacturers. this is a highly sensitive and technical area. i welcome the opportunity to dedicate further time to this report to ensure that we get the balance right – essentially we need to guarantee the highest level of consumer protection, but also avoid placing unnecessary burdens on manufacturers, many of whom in ireland are indigenous companies, or slowing down new life-saving products from making it to the market! both ireland and the eu need to protective their innovative edge. currently, europe has a competitive advantage over the us due to the speed with which companies can develop products.
madam president, this report on medical devices is a balanced one which, like the in vitro report, puts patient safety first. recent events such as the pip scandal and the issue of certain hip replacements causing damage to bones are clear indications that we needed to review our legislation. one of the issues which was very clear was that all the different notified bodies in the different member states were not operating at the same high level and that such gaps in regulatory controls had to be dealt with – and they were – in this proposal. we now have a new medical devices coordination group and the new assessment committee for medical devices. together they will ensure that there are no gaps in the very necessary regulatory controls. the report is proportionate, and we recognise that the pip scandal was fraud. i think we have ensured an effective streamlined authorisation process which gives certainty to manufacturers and puts patient safety first. like mr higgins, i represent a country where there are 26 000 jobs in the medical devices sector – in athlone, sligo, galway and elsewhere. today we have helped to ensure the continuation of those jobs while at the same time putting patient safety first.
madam president, like my colleagues ms harkin and mr higgins, i too give my general approval to these recommendations – both this report and the previous one. certainly it is right that we should try to eliminate the duplication of research and studies, and that we should eliminate inconsistencies across the european union and help to complete the internal market. many of the proposals go a long way to ensuring that this happens. however, i am pleased that we have got a mandate to continue discussions with the council, and i would hope that some of the concerns that industry has will be taken on board there. i met some representatives from my country of industries that account for eur 7 billion in exports and employ 26 000 employees. they feel that, if it is implemented as it stands, it could lead to a three-year delay in approval for new products. this would not be good for europe and not good for ireland, and it certainly does not make more sense. i hope this can be addressed.
in writing. − i supported parliament’s amendments to the proposed medical devices regulation. over 3 500 people in ireland were fitted with defective metal hip replacements between 2003 and 2010 while more than 1 500 women in ireland received faulty pip breast implants, containing industrial silicone instead of medical-grade fillers. hundreds of thousands more have been similarly affected across europe. these faulty medical devices then have to be replaced, causing additional distress to patients. we clearly need a better europe-wide regulatory framework for medical devices, one that guarantees that only devices that are safe for patients are authorised, and that promotes safe innovation in this sector. we need a state-of-the-art assessment procedure for all medical devices – from hip and breast implants to surgical instruments, as well as reinforced controls over the 80 or so ‘notified bodies’ across europe which are responsible for assessing the performance and safety of medical devices, and which should operate to common standards. i would now urge the council to work closely with parliament so that we can reach overall agreement on a new regulation and reassure the public concerning the safety of medical devices used across europe.
in writing. − i welcome the referral of this report back to committee. innovation, consumer protection and the protection of eu jobs all need to be balanced. like the in vitro devices regulation this directive also aims to address inconsistencies in member statesʼ interpretation of current rules, thus increasing the protection of public health and safety, removing obstacles to the internal market, etc. and similarly to my explanation of vote on the liese report i would like to voice concerns concerning the prescriptive nature of the report and the need to ensure that life-saving devices make it to the market as quickly as is safely possible. we cannot allow bureaucracy to slow down medical progress. i welcome the rejection by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the ‘preliminary marketing authorisationʼ as that would hinder the speed of medical progression; it would also cost the eu its innovative edge on the world market. i also welcome the increased level of transparency that this directive will ensure, as this will help to combat the counterfeit manufacturer of such products.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the agreement reached with the council under the irish presidency aimed at ending the practice of certain european shipowners sending their end-of-life ships to substandard facilities on tidal beaches in third countries for dismantling. this poses a serious danger to human health and to the environment. this new regulation will encourage the development of proper recycling facilities in countries which currently practise beaching. in future, eu-registered ships will have to be dismantled in eu-approved ship recycling facilities, which must fulfil specific requirements, be certified and be regularly inspected. the regulation effectively implements the (as yet unratified) 2009 hong kong international conventional for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of old ships. i would now urge the commission to examine the feasibility of an eu financial instrument to facilitate the safe and sound recycling of ships, and, if appropriate, to bring forward proposals to establish such an instrument. the commission should also address the issue of preventing shipowners from changing a ship’s flag state before sending it for scrapping in an attempting to circumvent their obligations under this new regulation.
in writing. − the whole area of ship dismantling is one which although regulated, still does not work effectively. regulations are systematically circumvented; indeed in 2009 more than 90 % of eu flagged ships were dismantled mostly in india, pakistan and bangladesh, usually using the beaching method which results in environmental damage. this has implications not only for the environment itself but for health also. the position of the rapporteur included supporting a mechanism to finance proper ship recycling coupled with a ship recycling plan for all eu ships and more explicit requirements on ship recycling facilities, i am supportive of this position.
in writing. − having shadowed the sogor report for the alde group, i consider that we arrived at a reasonable compromise in regard to european demographic statistics. an important issue arose where the ‘usual residenceʼ of a person could not be established: in such a case, legal or registered residence could be used except for the purposes of calculation for qualified majority voting purposes. it will now be necessary for member states to provide eurostat with data at national level. we have also included a review clause in both 2018 and 2023, when the commission will evaluate the quality of data transmitted and the methods used to collect data. the commission will evaluate the use of scientifically based, well documented statistical estimation methods to estimate the usually resident population from the legally resident or registered population.
in writing. − i welcome the referral of this report back to committee as a triumph of common sense. this report (as voted by the committee on womenʼs rights and gender equality (femm)) concerned policy on sexual and reproductive health and rights in member states and the eu. it touches on access to contraception, safe abortion services, comprehensive sex education, sti prevention and treatment, etc. all these are matters of subsidiarity, i.e. are for the member states to decide themselves. indeed the report that went through the femm committee actually listed ireland, poland and malta as the only three states where abortion was not available. our eu motto is ‘unity in diversityʼ not unity in homogeneity! the eu has no competency to discuss these matters and therefore should not do so and i see todayʼs vote as recognition of same.
in writing. − i supported this report, in particular my concern in regard to human rights abuses ranging from human trafficking to slavery, from drug and arms trafficking to child soldiers and from institutional corruption to endemic discrimination against women. in this context, abduction and rape are used as weapons of war and while i do not support abortion, i abstained on that vote because it will be up to the legislation already in place in any country regarding access to abortion.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí sé éasca tacaíocht a thabhairt do na moltaí seo mar gan dabht ar bith tá áiteanna áitiúla an-tábhachtach do gach duine. an chuid is mó de na rudaí a mbíonn tionchar acu orainn, tarlaíonn siad ar leibhéal áitiúil agus is fiú díospóireacht agus moltaí a bheith againn faoi sin anseo sa pharlaimint. i was very pleased to support these proposals, and i think the european union and particularly this parliament does its best to reflect the needs of local communities – particularly through the committee of the regions, which gives local politicians and representatives an opportunity to come here and meet people from other parts of the european union and discuss matters. i think that is important. civil society is also extremely important, and i know that in my own country this has played a huge part in ireland adopting the fiscal treaty, which was highly important as well. so the fact of having focused on local authorities and civil society is very important.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo toisc go bhfuil sé ríthábhachtach go nglacfadh an ae páirt níos gníomhaí in iarrachtaí i dtaca le caidreamh níos cuimsithí, trédhearcaí, freagraí a chothú idir na húdaráis náisiúnta agus an tsochaí shibhialta. chun go mbeadh cúnamh forbartha éifeachtach agus spriocdhírithe ann agus chun go mbeadh tionchar fadtréimhseach dearfach inbhuanaithe ag an gcúnamh, ní foláir go mbeadh ról gníomhach feasach go háitiúil ag na húdaráis áitiúla agus ag an tsochaí shibhialta. tacaím leis an rapóirtéir go bhfuil sé tábhachtach eolas a roinnt i gcúrsaí comhair um fhorbairt ar mhaithe leis an mbearna oilteachta a laghdú. chuige sin, fearaim fáilte roimh mholadh an choimisiúin maidir le treochlár don chomhpháirtíocht le heagraíochtaí na sochaí sibhialta a tharraingt suas ar mhaithe le straitéis do pháirteachas na sochaí sibhialta i gcúrsaí comhair eorpaigh go ginearálta a bhaint amach.
in writing. − local authorities and civil society have important roles to play in ensuring eu funds promote sustainable development in third countries, particularly at the policy formulation, programming and implementing stages, and in putting monitoring mechanisms in place to achieve this. i welcome the recommendations put forward in this resolution to strengthen the engagement of local authorities and civil society, particularly those aimed at encouraging dialogue between public administrations, local authorities, civil society organisations, especially women’s organisations, the private sector and citizens, based on increased transparency in official and unofficial aid flows. the commission should not limit eu financial support for service delivery only to civil society organisations operating in fragile states and the least-developed countries. the eu should also support more efficient tax-collection systems to ensure sustainable financing for development. local and civil society organisations can help to fight corruption, tax evasion and illicit financial flows from developing countries, particularly in fragile states where capacity-building is indispensable for the eu’s work in the field.
in writing. − i supported the crețu report because it highlighted the importance of providing an enabling environment for civil society organisations and the role that they play in supporting democracy. european union development policy is founded on a human-rights based approach and there is a strong commitment to strengthening the democratic process in developing countries. the report also recognises the important role of local authorities in fragile states and the need to ensure the development of administrative and technical skills so that local authorities and others provide basic services and at the same time seek solutions to address the root cause of poverty inequality and exclusion.
a uachtaráin, athsmaoineamh ar an oideachas, is maith an teideal é. go háirithe nuair a thuigimid go bhfuil a lán daoine óga dífhostaithe san aontas eorpach faoi láthair. ag an am céanna, tá dhá mhilliún jab folamh toisc na bhfuil na scileanna ag na daoine óga sin. taispeánann sé sin go bhfuil rud é briste maidir le cúrsaí oideachais agus is fiú mar sin díriú air. tá sé tábhachtach traenáil agus atraenáil a thabhairt do na múinteoirí i rith a saol oibre. freisin, fáiltím roimh an mbéim atá á cur sa tuarascáil seo ar an eolaíocht, ar an teicneolaíocht, ar an innealtóireacht agus ar an matamaitic agus feicim i mo thír féin go bhfuil fás nach beag tagtha ar an líon daoine atá ag leanúint na gcúrsaí seo. tá sé sin an-tábhachtach agus mar fhocal scoir, ba chóir seans a thabhairt do gach duine freisin teanga eorpach a fhoghlaim chomh luath agus is féidir.
i scríbhinn. − d’eagraigh mé seimineár maidir leis an mbearna scileanna agus cúrsaí oideachais i bparlaimint na heorpa i mí bealtaine na bliana seo. bhí saineolaithe oideachais agus oiliúna ó gach cearn den ae ag labhairt ag an seimineár, ag tarraingt airde ar an dá mhilliún folúntas atá ann san ae in ainneoin an ráta ard dífhostaíochta atá ann. cé go raibh fadhb mar seo ann cheana le poist neamh-oilte, is poist oilte freisin atá i gceist anois. níl an ae chun teacht as an ngéarchéim mura mbeidh na scileanna cuí ar fáil chun todhchaí láidir a thógáil. chuige sin, ní foláir cúrsaí oideachais agus oiliúna eorpacha a mhaoiniú, a athchóiriú agus a thabhairt suas chun dáta. tacaím leis an rapóirtéir maidir le tús áite a thabhairt d’iarrachtaí dul i ngleic le cúrsaí dífhostaíochta, agus tá an t-oideachas agus an oiliúint ríthábhachtach chuige sin. chabhródh breis comhoibrithe eorpach ó thaobh eolais agus oilteachta de leis an ae fás, oiliúint, fostaíocht agus, uathu sin, cumas iomaíochta an ae a spreagadh. tacaím freisin leis an moladh i dtaca le taithí oibre, intéirneachtaí agus printíseachtaí, agus na scileanna a fhoghlaimíonn daoine óga uathu, a úsáid chun an bearna idir cursaí oideachais, taighde agus gnó a laghdú.
in writing. − high-quality traineeships, work-based learning, apprenticeships and dual learning that offer decent pay, appropriate working conditions, a strong learning component and are associated with a qualification process, as well as greater recognition of youth work and volunteering, can facilitate the transition from education to quality employment and the development of crucial life skills. member states need to give greater recognition to experience and skills gained through non-formal and informal learning, including by fully implementing the 2012 council recommendation establishing national systems for the validation of non-formal and informal learning, ideally well before the 2018 deadline. i welcome the resolution’s call for more and better apprenticeship placements and the development of clear quality criteria aimed at preventing abuses. the launch of the european alliance for apprenticeships last july and the new erasmus+ programme, with its stronger focus on apprenticeships, offers member states the chance to change mindsets on vocational education and to promote apprenticeships. deeper cooperation between education institutes, the social partners and civil society can help us address the issues of skill mismatches, gender imbalances, social exclusion of vulnerable groups and the opportunities which digital literacy, open education resources, ict and language skills can bring.
in writing. − this report had a number of positive aspects, such as the recognition of qualifications on a cross-border basis, the principle of equal access to inclusive and quality education, the importance of education enhancing the employability of students, the value of vocational guidance and the need for greater emphasis on vocational training. the report also highlighted the role of further education and training in combating youth unemployment and the need to invest in developing skills appropriate to the needs of the economy while at the same time ensuring access to lifelong learning. a final important point as far as i am concerned is that education contributes to active citizenship because we are a society first and an economy second.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i fully support the need for initiatives at union level and national level in the areas of providing skills for employment and new ways of teaching and learning. at present the economy faces its biggest challenge with regard to unemployment and this initiative will be the way forward to increase employment rates among young people and ultimately encourage innovation and economic growth.
in writing. − in the context of pre-accession funds for candidate countries, i agree that the fight against organised crime and corruption should be one of our most important priorities, along with helping to ensure the accountability, impartiality and independence of judicial systems. crucially, i supported the idea that freedom of the press and the media is central to any democratic system and forms part of the checks and balances that help systems to operate in an accountable and transparent way.
in writing. − one of the major concerns in regard to patient safety is the prevention of incidences of health associated infection and in this context i welcome some of the steps already taken by member states to help ensure cross-border patient safety. the commission has also been involved in a number of initiatives under the research programme, the oecd-led project on healthcare quality indicators and the adoption of the cross-border healthcare directive. the work done by the european centre for disease control has also been useful but there is still a need to set up a reporting system at eu level to help combat health associated infections. one of the most important issues dealt with in this report is the need to find an alternative to treatment with antibiotics and to find responses to antibiotic resistance including bacteriophage therapy.
in writing. − i fully support patient safety in the eu and i believe that there is more room for improvement in hospital and non-hospital care. it is important to focus on the overall training of health professionals and carers. furthermore, i also approved this report as it involves implementing european guidelines on patient safety standards and stressed that progress should still be achieved with respect to informing patients about hais plus supporting research for the prevention and control of these medical problems.
i scríbhinn. − is le fadhbanna le cleachtais fógraíochta míthreoracha is mó a bhaineann an comhfhreagras a thagann isteach chugam ó mhuintir mo thoghcheantair agus is minic a bhíonn gnólachtaí beaga thíos leis de bharr scéimeanna míthreoracha fógraíochta agus na foirmeacha míthreoracha íocaíochta a théann leo siúd. is minic a dhéanann na comhlachtaí mailíseacha sin bagairt nó ciapadh ar fhiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide. is cosúil go bhfuil reachtaíocht ghinearálta eorpach ann a bhaineann leis an ábhar seo, ach ina ainneoin sin ciallaíonn gníomhachtaí trasteorann na ceiste go mbíonn sé deacair go minic ar ghnólachtaí beaga cúnamh agus eolas cruinn ceart a fháil. bíonn deacracht i gceist uaireanta leis na difríochtaí atá ann idir na ballstáit maidir leis an gcosaint a chuirtear ar fháil do ghnólachtaí. chuige sin, ní foláir don choimisiún treoracha dea-chleachtais a chur ar fáil d’eagraíochtaí feidhmithe náisiúnta agus comhoibriú a spreagadh idir na ballstáit ar mhaithe le dul i ngleic le cleachtais mhíthreoracha na gcomhlachtaí atá i gceist. tacaím le moladh an rapóirtéara i dtaca le tuilleadh a dhéanamh ó thaobh cúrsaí coisc, eolais, feidhmithe agus ionchúisimh de. ní mór dúinn a chinntiú go mbíonn cosaint níos fearr ón gcleachtas mailíseach ann d’fhiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide.
in writing. − i was very pleased to support this report on misleading advertising practices e.g. euro cities guide. this is a perennial problem, year in year out, where citizens and smes get caught in the trap of misleading advertising. they feel isolated and of course the companies perpetuating the fraud play on their fears. because this is a cross-border fraud there needs to be much greater mutual cooperation between national enforcement bodies. we need to step up the investigation and prosecution of misleading marketing practices and ensure the introduction of proportionate and dissuasive penalties. member states should set up national focal points where victims of misleading practices can report their cases and where they can obtain information on means of redress. also the national focal point should maintain a database which records all forms of cross-border fraud and shares them with national focal points in other member states. this will help ensure a better warning system is put in place. furthermore cooperation between national focal points can assist in the settlement of cross-border disputes by providing defrauded companies with information on redress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i agree that it is unacceptable that businesses frequently produce misleading advertisements that negatively affect the end consumer and other businesses. it is unjust and does not allow fair competition between businesses. this marketing behaviour has huge effects on smes and microbusinesses and this report blacklists a number of misleading marketing practices as well as introducing a blacklist of companies repeatedly convicted for them. it calls for national enforcement authorities to cooperate with institutions such as banks, postal services and debt-collection agencies, all of which the public trust. the public should not be subject to such unfair commercial practices.
mr president, i want to focus on two specific areas of this very wide-ranging report on organised crime in the eu. firstly, i have long advocated that the proceeds of confiscated criminal assets should be reinvested in the communities which have been devastated by organised and serious crime. the social use of seized criminal assets for youth support, regeneration projects or even crime prevention could really help empower these communities. indeed, over the course of our work we learned of good examples from italy. i will certainly be taking up the report’s recommendations in this regard with the irish government in relation to assets seized by our own criminal assets bureau. secondly, i welcome the report’s recommendations in relation to human trafficking, particularly those which advocate criminalising people who avail themselves of the services of victims of trafficking. almost 900 000 people are trafficked in the eu each year for labour and sexual exploitation. some stark examples have emerged this week of children possibly being traded and even abused. the discovery of a distressed teenager in dublin this week is a reminder that ireland is affected very much by human trafficking. i would ask the commission to consider proposals for an eu-wide helpline in relation to victims of trafficking.
a uachtaráin, ní den chéad uair é go bhfuilimid ag caint faoin ábhar seo agus is ceart dúinn é a dhéanamh mar tá coiriúlacht de gach saghas ag déanamh díobháil mhór d’eacnamaíocht na heorpa agus don daonlathas féin. dá bhrí sin is fiú dúinn troid ar ais anois. mr president, as speakers have said, organised crime has gone beyond the limits in europe. it is the new warfare and, like wars of old, we have got to organise ourselves to fight against it. there are 3 600 organised crime gangs working very lucratively within europe. and why would they not? as bill newton dunn pointed out, when only five per cent of containers are examined, there is a 95 % chance of escaping. obviously we need to do something about that. we particularly need to utilise cooperation across all member states – particularly at police level. we also need to utilise new technologies, such as the internet of things, to ensure that containers are examined and to put an end to this scourge, particularly where human trafficking, which people have mentioned already, is concerned. this is an appalling vista at this point in time. i also think that we should consider having another headline figure for our 2020 strategy, namely to aim to reduce the amount of organised crime by 20 % by 2020. if we did so, we would make billions for the european economy and create countless jobs for our people.
mr president, if we had a cross-section of citizens from different member states in the plenary today, i think the question many of them would ask is: how does mobility affect the welfare system in my country? i think they would not be so interested in asking about how they would be affected if they moved, because we know that fewer than 3 % move. in my opinion, that question needs to be answered specifically and not just in general. i agree with commissioner andor that mobility of eu workers is of benefit to member states, but we need to be able to quantify this. i come from a country which is well acquainted with emigration, yet i sometimes hear stories about people coming from other eu states who gain immediate access to all benefits and try to abuse the system. now i know that that is not true, but i need the figures to prove it. in each member state, the commission and parliament offices – i believe – have an obligation to clarify the different types of benefits available to citizens. i agree with phil bennion: we need evidence-based statistics; we need clarity. the figures he quoted today should be in the public domain. i believe it is the responsibility of parliament’s and the commission’s offices to ensure that accurate statistics are in the public domain and to keep hammering them home. there is hysteria about benefit tourism. it has been stoked up, especially by anti-eu parties trying to work on people’s fears and pretending that closed borders in a globalised world will deliver greater benefits, when in fact we know that that is not true. this will be an important issue in the next european elections. we must not lose the argument because we do not have the facts at our fingertips.
madam president, i wish to focus my remarks on the european neighbourhood policy in relation to the middle east peace process. i welcome very much the resumption of talks between the israelis and the palestinians and sincerely hope that they will succeed. the eu has a central role to play here. i agree with the resolution’s observation that israel’s continued policy of expanding the settlements – which are illegal under international law – continues to completely undermine the two-state solution and will render impossible the creation of a viable contiguous palestinian state. that is why the eu guidelines on the eligibility for eu grants, which specifically exclude israeli entities in palestinian territories, must be implemented in full. the eu should not give in to pressure to dilute these guidelines. in relation to the palestinian prisoners, parliament has already voted on a resolution calling for a fact-finding mission to israel to determine the condition of palestinian detainees, and i hope this will take place before the end of the year. i welcome the fact that the report also highlights the rights of minorities within israel, especially the arab-israeli and bedouin communities, and i hope the israeli authorities take note of the contents of this report and work towards addressing these concerns.
mr president, i would like to thank alain cadec for his efforts on this important financial fund for the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. the report includes support for producer organisations (pos) for the development of production and marketing plans. of course, these amendments are vitally important, as the pos will act as the cornerstone of the new common fisheries policy. they will be tasked with the responsibility of managing the obligation to land all discards. funding under the emff is, therefore, essential. i have also put forward amendments to provide new funding for small ports which have been affected by decline and fish landings, in order to allow those ports to develop water-based activities. i fully support the establishment of targeted – and i underline ‘targeted’ – decommissioning schemes as the most effective way of reducing capacity and returning fleets to profitability. i had the responsibility for doing this in ireland, and it works extremely well. i urge members to remove the restrictions on funding for aquaculture in natura 2000 sites. there must be developments there, as 90 % of the european union is within that. i fully support the increased funding for data collection, control and the inclusion of all stakeholders on the advisory councils.
a uachtaráin, bhí an-díospóireacht againn agus mar is gnách nuair a bhímid ag plé cúrsaí iascaireachta bhí sé conspóideach arís. bíodh sin mar atá, ba mhaith liom díriú isteach ar chúpla pointe go háirithe mar a bhaineann le daoine óga. young people have been mentioned, and i think that is crucial. if you want the renewal of any industry, you have to have young people coming into it. we recognise that in farming, where we support young farmers coming into the farming sector; we need to do the same with fishing – and also to emphasise that we are talking about fishermen and fisherwomen. i think we could also do far more to try and have processing located where the fish are landed. that again would help coastal communities in particular. i completely support efforts by the commissioner to try and eliminate discards, and anything, such as gear change, that can facilitate that is obviously to be welcomed. finally, with regard to aquaculture, i think we need sound scientific evidence to allay the fears of those who fear that aquaculture is not compatible with wild fishing. that is a very important point.
a uachtaráin, arís fáiltím roimh na moltaí seo mar tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh eolas an-domhain ar fad againn ar cad atá ar siúl san fharraige agus léarscáileanna a thaispeánann é sin. dá bhrí sin fáiltím roimh an moladh seo. i think we all know that the blue economy is awaiting us for development and will in particular provide great answers and solutions in terms of developing europe – jobs, growth, economy, etc. i drafted an opinion for my committee on blue growth, and i am certainly aware of the potential, but obviously collecting information and having it all there – particularly a proper seabed map – is vital. i compliment the commission and the rapporteur on this initiative, because, based on that, you can then go forward with very accurate projects which, as others said, will protect, in particular, spawning grounds, etc., but will also tap into the huge potential that is there in the sea. this is a vital first step.
mr president, i think this is probably a dangerous environment in which to mention ecclesiastes chapter 3, verse 1, but it does say ‘to everything there is a season’. i would like to follow that up by taking to task the comments of the well-intentioned bishops of ireland recently about what they call austerity when they should actually be talking about consolidation – the only thing that is actually working, getting people back to work and working well and restoring confidence. what they should have spoken about is solidarity, and i think that is what we need to talk about here. this is a time for change, a time to talk about growth and recovery. there are two things i would like to see coming out of the european council: one is to put the social market economy at the heart of our talk about recovery. adenauer said that people should not serve business, business should serve people. the second thing we need to do is to revisit the issue of common european bonds. i think george soros has a point when he says, for example, that this would lift italy out of its current mire and put it on the road to recovery. let us talk more about the social market economy, a christian democrat principle which is shared by the social democrats and others, and let us put people at the heart of our recovery. let us again look at this issue of common european bonds. if we are to change the language, if we are to move to a new season, we need to talk about growth and recovery.
mr president, my experience in this chamber is that there are more considered speeches later on in the debate. we had a very lively exchange this morning with the presidents of the groups, and that was very important in clearing the air, particularly on the budget issue. let me just pick up on my colleague gay mitchell’s very well-considered presentation here. there are signs of economic recovery, so there is hope here. let us build on it. our biggest problem is youth unemployment and a lack of cash and credit for smes so that they can employ young people. there is a complete logjam. we know the problem, but the council has to find and come forward with those solutions. the social market economy is vital. there is absolutely no doubt that both matter. you cannot have one without the other. finally, i would just like to say something regarding the impasse over the budget: this is a very unseemly mess. citizens do not like it. we should clear it up. let us never allow this to happen again in our future budget debates.
madam president, i wish to move an oral amendment to 538 to include the words ‘other stakeholders’. doing so would more accurately reflect the current members of the advisory councils. i think most members will know that it is absolutely essential to include all of them.
in writing. − this commission proposal, amending council regulation (ec) no 111/2005 lays down rules for the monitoring of trade between the community and third countries in drug precursors, seeks to fill a legal lacuna in the regulation. i welcome the report, which i supported in its entirety. it makes the law more complete and is another tool in the battle against counterfeit medicines. i particularly welcome the introduction of the following: a monitoring mechanism which was introduced in order to be able to respond to new use of prescription drugs for recreational purposes by adding substances to a list in order to temporarily monitor them. i also voted to introduce a rapid response mechanism which was introduced under article 26 to allow for seizure in justified cases, where there is evidence that the drugs will be diverted to the black market. this is an essential weapon in the eu war on drugs.
thank you, mr president. i want to read the start of a letter from alexandra harris, one of those imprisoned. ‘dear mum, dad and georgie, it’s very cold now. it snowed last night. the blizzard blew my very poorly-insulated window open and i had to sleep wearing my hat. i am nervous about spending winter here. i have a radiator in my cell but it’s the arctic breeze that makes the place very cold. i heard that from december, murmansk is dark for six weeks. god, i hope i’m out by then.’ alexandra and the others are not pirates. she should be saluted rather than jailed for her and the others’ courageous act. a very strong message is needed from people all across the world to demand their immediate release and the dropping of all charges, because otherwise the green light goes on for other governments do the same and for putin to step up the repression against protesters within russia. of course, this is part of the race to the arctic. the russian government is part of it, big oil is part of it, and the other governments who represent big oil are part of it. that race has to be stopped. it can only be stopped by a mass movement from below.
a uachtaráin, is dócha nach mbeidh mórán sna meáin faoin ábhar seo a bhfuil á phlé againn anocht ach ag an am céanna is ábhar tábhachtach é agus tá ag moladh ag dul don rapórtéir agus do na feisirí eile a d'oibrigh air. agus go háirithe na daoine a fuair ailse de bharr na radaíochta seo, tabharfaidh sé treoir dóibh conas é a sheachaint amach anseo agus go háirithe do na comhlachtaí proifisiúnta cad ba chóir dóibh a dhéanamh chun an radaíocht sin a sheachaint. so i think it is good that we are debating this and discussing it virtually unanimously tonight. i particularly welcome the inclusion of all the different directives into one directive, because that fits in with what we are trying to do in relation to 2020 and, of course, it will also mean that any contradictory provisions in existing legislation can be eliminated. so there are a lot of good proposals in this and i welcome it.
a uachtaráin, arís is ábhar an-tábhachtach é seo, b’fhéidir an t-ábhar is tábhachtaí idir lámha againn, mar is ábhar é atá rítthábhachtach don chomhshaol agus dár saoránaigh. is é sin clár gníomhach don chomhshaol 2020 agus ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl don choimisinéir agus don fheisire gerbrandy as ucht an mholadh a thug siad d’uachtarántacht na héireann mar gheall ar an dul chun cinn a rinne siad faoin tuarascáil seo. tabharfaidh mé an teachtaireacht sin ar ais don rialtas agus beidh áthas orthu é a chloisteáil. the catchphrase ‘living well, within the limits of our planet’ is a good one, and one with which many people can identify – as indeed is ‘we have not inherited the earth from our ancestors, we have borrowed it from our children’. that reminds me of what people often say when they take over a sports organisation or a business: they say that their aim is to leave the organisation on a better footing than when they were appointed. i think this is something that most people in europe would want to do. for that reason we should be tapping into the goodwill that is there, particularly now amongst the younger generation, regarding what needs to be done for the environment. young people have a very different attitude to older generations and a far greater awareness, and that is why it is right that we should have, first of all, a programme for 2020, followed by binding targets for 2030 and a vision for 2050. this will create a stable environment for investment and help us to have jobs and growth and, particularly, to nurture the green economy. some aspects which are mentioned are worth repeating. one is particularly in relation to recycling and ensuring that only goods that cannot be recycled are dumped. that is something i think that most people would do, but we need to create an awareness about it, because many people are actually not aware of what can be recycled and what cannot, and what they should do with it.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom a rá go raibh mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo agus vótáil leis an ngrúpa mionlach i mbeagnach gach aon leasú. ach an pointe is tábhachtaí – inné dúirt ceannaire mo ghrúpa féin, epp, joseph daul, go raibh locht mór ar an gcomhairle sa tslí agus go bhfuil siad ag iompar maidir leis an gcoimisiún agus maidir leis an bparlaimint agus nach bhfuil sé féaráilte in aon chor de bheith ag ligint orthu go bhfuil siad ag tabhairt airgid do thionscnaimh agus ansin nach mbíonn an t-airgead ar fáil. ar deireadh báire, bíonn na tionscnaimh sin críochnaithe agus ní fhaigheann siad aon íocaíocht. ní féidir é sin a cheadú agus caithfimid gach brú is féidir linn a chur ar an gcomhairle a bheith macánta agus an t-airgead atá geallta a thabhairt dúinn chomh luath agus is féidir.
in writing. − the commission’s draft budget for 2014 proposed an initial amount of eur 250 million in funding to the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees for 2014 under the budget line ‘financial assistance to palestine, the peace process and unrwa’. as an average since 2006, the budget line reaches a minimum of eur 350 million per year. unrwa has been under increased pressure of late due to the conflict in syria and its impact on palestinian refugees in palestine, lebanon and jordan. the organisation has had to stretch its resources even further due to the impact in gaza of the egyptian crisis and developments in the west bank. consequently, i strongly supported the proposal by parliament’s committees to increase this amount by eur 50 million. however, the proposal to put the additional eur 50 million in reserve ‘pending the positive outcome of a commission report on the sound management of eu funds by the palestinian authorities’ would have seriously threatened the provision of eu support to palestinians in general, and in particular to refugees, at a crucial time when unrwa faces multiple challenges. as chair of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council, i am acutely aware of the sterling work done by unrwa, and i welcome the outcome of the vote.
in writing. − i voted to support this report on the budget for 2014. in particular, i voted against subsidies for tobacco growing. in the light of parliament’s recent vote on tobacco it would not have been reasonable to support subsidies to growers. i also supported funding for combating violence against young people and women. i was delighted to support the european globalisation adjustment fund. now that trialogues have finished, i hope we can get full parliamentary support for the fund.
in writing. − our budget needs to strike a balance between allowing the members of the house to carry out their work – in their languages – and the need to make savings and show restraint at this time of global economic crisis. the best savings are those which can be implemented without employing additional administrative staff, such as our work towards a paperless parliament, our buildings policy and the internalisation of the ep security staff. i welcome the commitment appropriations and the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, bringing fresh money (eur 50 million) for humanitarian aid and for heading 1b (eur 223 million) for the fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead), as well as the additional allocation under the structural funds for cyprus. it is extremely important that the eu should accept its responsibility as a global power and therefore as a global provider of humanitarian aid.
a uachtaráin, is dóigh liom go bhfuil an t-ábhar seo an-tábachtach go háirithe i dtaobh comhluadair atá ag brath ar an bhfarraige dá ngairm bheatha. tá a lán díobh siúd i mo cheantar féin. dá bhrí sin, tá sé an-tábhachtach go mbeadh eolas cinnte againn bunaithe ar eolaíocht agus taighde; go mbeadh muid in ann acmhainní na farraige a úsáid i gceart; agus go háirithe cosaint a thabhairt do na héisc agus don áit ina bhfuil siad á mbreith i dtreo agus nach gcuirfimid isteach orthu. is é atá i gceist leis seo ná mapa a dhéanamh de leaba na farraige, agus caithfear é sin a dhéanamh ar dtús sular féidir linn dul ar aghaidh agus na hacmhainní atá faoi bhun na farraige a úsáid. tá an-seans go deo againn jabanna a chruthú trasna na heorpa ar fad agus feictear é sin sna tuarascálacha go léir atá againn. ach sular féidir é sin a dhéanamh, caithfimid a bheith cinnte faoi cad a tharlóidh do na héisc agus don chomhshaol nuair a thugaimid faoin obair seo.
in writing. − this is a very good report which explores the possibilities and the potential of the blue economy. the context of this is the digital mapping of the seabed of european waters, the results of which will be produced by 2020. we are expecting a policy paper from the commission in early 2014 on the blue economy, and once we have the knowledge we can then use the seabed maps to tap the potential of the oceans in a sustainable way. the report also looks at all of this potential with a view to promoting sustainable fisheries and, in the context of our vote on the common fisheries policy, it is a visionary report. it offers the potential to do everything from protecting spawning grounds to indicating the best type of gear with which to fish.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo mar feictear domsa go bhfuil sé an-tábhachtach i gcomhthéacs straitéis mhuirí 2020. tá eolaíocht, teicneolaíocht agus nuálaíocht ríthábhachtach maidir lenár ndul chun cinn geilleagrach agus sóisialta. i saol atá ag éirí níos domhandaithe, aithnítear go bhfuil leibhéil arda infheistíochta sa taighde agus sa nuálaíocht ríthábhachtach le haghaidh acmhainn iomaíochta gheilleagrach agus nuálaíochtaí a tháirgeadh i réimsí ar nós cúram sláinte agus teicneolaíochtaí comhshaoil a chuireann feabhas inláimhsithe ar chaighdeán ár mbeatha. is féidir linn dul chun cinn a dhéanamh trí pháirtnéireachtaí láidre idir tionscal agus taighde, trí fhórsa oibre oilte agus trí chumas straitéiseach a fhreagraíonn do mhargaí agus don teicneolaíocht. tá obair iontach déanta ag bean patrão neves, agus ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl di.
in writing. − this report is badly needed. until now the eu did not have a specific legislative framework for enforcing its rights in the field of trade policy. we need to move away from the previous case-by-case approach to something more concrete. the eu needs to be able to enforce and defend its rights in the event of unfair or illegal trade actions taken in a third country. the effectiveness of eu action is dependent on a timely defence of our trade rules. with all this in mind, the initiative intends to provide the eu with a single legislative instrument enabling it to defend its interests in a rapid, effective and flexible way, in order to encourage offending countries to put an end to illegal behaviour.
a uachtaráin, is dóigh liom gur tuarascáil an-mhaith é seo mar go mbaineann sé leis an bhfarraige agus go háirithe le hiascairí agus caithfidh mé a rá go bhfuil moladh mór ag dul don aire éireannach simon coveney as ucht an dea-obair a rinne sé chun an comhbheartas iascaireachta a thabhairt thar an líne. dá bhrí sin, is dócha go bhfuil gach duine sásta go bhfuil dul chun cinn maith déanta againn. ach ag an am céanna, caithfimid a smaoineamh go bhfuil 80% de na héisc a ithimid san eoraip á iompórtáil agus níl aon chiall leis sin. dá bhrí sin, caithfimid tacaíocht a thabhairt do na hiascairí chun níos mó iasc a bheith ar an margadh agus chun seans go háirithe a thabhairt do dhaoine óga dul isteach sa ghairm bheatha sin. agus tá mé ag caint faoi bhuachaillí agus cailíní agus is ceart tacaíocht agus oideachas a thabhairt dóibh maidir le gach rud a bhaineann le hiascaireacht agus leis an bhfarraige agus is dóigh liom gur tuarascáil an-mhaith é seo agus molaimid an tuasal cadec, an coimisinéir agus gach duine.
in writing. − earlier this year, the ep and the council reached agreement on an ambitious reform of the common fisheries policy, with the aim of ensuring a sustainable future or fishing communities, enabling fish stocks to recover, the progressive elimination of discards, and minimising the impact of fisheries on the marine environment. the amendments now approved by the ep to the 2014-20 european maritime and fisheries fund would give us the means to achieve these aims. i welcome the emphasis on improved data collection, monitoring and inspections, on reducing subsidies that encourage over-fishing, on boosting employment, especially among younger fishermen, and on introducing more selective fishing gear to cut discards. i also very much welcome the amendments seeking to disallow applications for support, for a certain period, from operators also found guilty of serious breaches of legislation concerning pay and employment conditions, health and safety, and human or drug trafficking. the fishing industry accounts for less than 0.2% of the eu workforce yet 7% of all workplace fatalities. fishing jobs must be safe jobs. i would urge the council to now work with the ep so that the new emff can commence operations by 1 january 2014.
in writing. − i was very pleased that the european parliament voted not to approve subsidies for fleet renewal. these subsidies were discontinued before the last agreement on the common fisheries policy and to restore them would have been a retrograde step and would have undermined all our good work in the common fisheries policy 2014 to 2020. i am pleased that my group, alde, were the difference in this vote. we want sustainable fisheries and we want to support fishermen and women in the future. in this report we said yes to support for produce associations, yes to training of young fisherpersons, yes to maximum sustainable yield, yes to money for data collection and yes to gear change but no to subsidies for fleet renewal.
i scríbhinn. − cuirim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil seo, agus tá a fhios agam go bhfuil an-chuid oibre déanta ag oifig alain cadec. tá an-chuid rudaí sa tuarascáil seo, ach ba mhaith liom díriú ar an tábhacht a bhaineann leis na cabhlaigh chósta ar mhionscála maidir le pobail chósta. i measc na mbeart sin tá comhairle ghairmiúil faoi straitéisí gnó agus margaíochta. cuirfidh cemi comhtháthú sóisialta agus cruthú post chun cinn i bpobail a bhíonn ag brath ar an iascach trí luach breise a chur leis an iascach agus trí éagsúlú chun gabháil d’earnálacha eile muirí. tacófar leis an gcur chuige faoi stiúir an phobail maidir le forbairt inbhuanaithe na limistéar iascaigh. aithníonn cemi den chéad uair an ról a imríonn céilí – ar mná iad den chuid is mó – i ngnólacht iascaireachta an teaghlaigh, agus gan aon aitheantas dlíthiúil acu i mórán cásanna.
mr president, climate change is the most acute threat to the whole of humanity. it threatens the right to food and the right to water. it is a threat to biodiversity, and it will force more and more people to flee their homes because of rising sea levels. none of this is news, in any sense; the opposite is the case. if anything, the scientific reports are becoming more urgent, more alarming and more shocking. as is the rhetoric of world leaders, when appropriate, and when attending climate change conferences. big words, half-hearted promises and very few changes. it is the same procedure every year. if it is serious about climate change, the cop 19 conference should speed up its commitments on meaningful and binding targets for co2 reduction; live up to its commitments on financing without taking money from that allocated to official development aid; and publicly invest in research in clean and sustainable energy. to put it very bluntly, the people of this planet must destroy capitalism before capitalism destroys our planet. we need to build a sustainable and democratic socialist society based on the planning of our resources.
in writing. − i supported many of the proposal in this resolution but in particular i supported amendment 12, which noted that the eu could fulfil its vital role in reducing emissions through policies to stop the development of highly greenhouse-gas-intensive unconventional fossil fuels e.g. shale gas. i also supported the idea that we should cease public subsidies that support the development of unconventional fuels; at the very least, we should start to phase them out.
in writing. − this draft resolution comes ahead of the global conference in warsaw in november. i particularly welcome that it highlights that many of the past cop decisions have not been acted upon. we need to learn from the failure of previous decisions to be implemented and perhaps be more realistic in our demands or expectations. this resolution, quite rightly, calls for a more comprehensible and coherent post-2020 agreement (a new ‘climate pact’), with each country contributing (common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities). the inclusion of all countries in the planning phase is essential if we really want to have a climate impact! the resolution also calls for a climate strategy to create new jobs. this is exactly the type of joined-up thinking we need. in a time of economic crisis, when people are struggling to put food on the table, it is very difficult to sell long-term climate goals. a climate-friendly job creation strategy is an excellent idea, which will allow the eu citizens to get involved in combating climate change. i also welcome the commitment to reduce our dependency upon energy imports, so that the eu can be energy independent!
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo chomh maith agus i ndáiríre tá sé in am dúinn aontú chun troid i gcoinne coiriúlachta, mímhacántacht de gach saghas agus éalú cánach agus mar sin de. tá sé ag déanamh praiseach i ndáiríre d’eacnamaíocht na heorpa. it is estimated that there are 3 600 organised gangs around europe involved in crime of one sort or another, utilising new technologies, open borders and globalisation to get away with their activities. it is costing the european union as much as our budget, as well as millions and millions of jobs, and creating misery in many lives. it is time we united against it. in particular, i think we should have a target for 2020 of reducing organised crime and its proceeds by 20 %.
i scríbhinn. − vótálamar i bhfabhar lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil i dtaca le creatlach láidir chomhsheasmhach a chur i bhfeidhm chun aghaidh a thabhairt ar an gcoireacht eagraithe agus chun comhar póilíneachta agus breithiúnach a spreagadh agus a neartú san eoraip agus go hidirnáisiúnta. ní mór na bearta atá ann chun dul i ngleic leis an gcoireacht eagraithe, an t-éilliú agus an sciúradh airgid a neartú gan mhoill. diúltaímid glan, áfach, leis na leasuithe agus moltaí sin a bhaineann le comhbhonn cánach corparáide comhdhlúite a thabhairt isteach agus iad siúd a bhaineann le dul i dtreo córais cánach comhchuibhithe. is inniúlacht náisiúnta iad cúrsaí cánach agus ní mór don choimisiún eorpach agus do pharlaimint na heorpa meas a bheith acu ar sin. faoin bprótacal breise maidir le himní phobal na héireann i dtaca le cúrsaí cánach faoi chonradh liospóin tugtar aitheantas d’inniúlacht na mballstát sa mhéid a bhaineann le cúrsaí cánach.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of the final european parliament report on organised crime, corruption and money laundering: recommendations on action and initiatives to be taken. with regard to the call for the harmonisation of business taxes and uniform tax rules in all member states, i would recall and stress that under the eu treaties, taxation is a matter for national competence where the principle of unanimity applies. discussion on this issue has to have regard to the needs of geographically peripheral member states whose prosperity and employment levels depend, to a large extent, on their capacity to attract inward investment. tax fraud and evasion is a global problem that needs to be countered by stronger european and international action, including on tax transparency and the automatic exchange of information in tax matters. i very much welcome the call for the exclusion of economic operators for at least five years from public contracts throughout the eu if convicted for participation in a criminal organisation, money laundering or terrorist financing, exploitation of human beings or child labour, corruption or any other serious offences that produce social harm such as tax evasion or tax-related offences.
in writing. − i supported the overall iacolino report even though there were some voting outcomes i disagreed with. there were a number of votes supporting a greater tax harmonisation and ccctb. i do not support any moves towards tax harmonisation as i believe this is a matter for member states; furthermore, the current proposal on ccctb will favour larger member states and i believe it is not a workable proposition. also, i did not support the ineligibility of certain persons to stand for election. the essence of democracy is that the people decide, not any organisation or body set up to weed out unsuitable candidates – no matter how unsuitable they may be. you cannot second-guess the electorate.
in writing. − i welcome this report by the committee special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering set up by the european parliament decision of 14 march 2012. with ever-increasing communications technology, and the ease with which criminals can move around europe, it is important that we are in a position tackle organised crime. we know that there are 3 600 international criminal organisations operating in the european union. of these, 70% consist of members from several countries who operate freely across borders, exploiting the opportunities offered by economic globalisation and the new technologies and entering into alliances with criminal groups from other countries. in addition, more than 30% of these groups are multi-crime groups, i.e. they have a great ability to diversify their areas of operation, profiting from all kinds of illegal trafficking and thus polluting the lawful economy, in which they attain extremely high and alarming levels of infiltration.
in writing. − if we want to build on the slight economic recovery underway in the eurozone, we need to achieve a better balance between consolidating budgets and investing in growth. europe will not achieve the europe 2020 strategy targets, especially the ambitious employment, education and social inclusion targets, if we do not promote growth-friendly fiscal consolidation that takes country-specific situations fully into account and that promotes targeted social investments. i welcome the belated recognition that all member states, not only those with a deficit, but also those with a surplus, have a role to play in correcting economic imbalances. the commission should give member states, including those taking part in troika programmes, the flexibility they need to make full use of eu funding under the 2014-20 budgetary framework that moves us towards the europe 2020 targets. the recent commission proposal to establish a social indicators scoreboard is a step forward but should be complemented with a system that triggers preventative and corrective action in response to social imbalances. finally there needs to be deeper involvement by the european parliament and by national parliaments in the european semester process, as well as over the actions of the troika.
in writing. − i supported the parliament’s resolution on the suspension of the swift agreement as a result of nsa surveillance. this was a difficult decision to make but we need to make a statement on nsa surveillance on behalf of european citizens. this is a strong move but i believe it reflects the strong feelings of many citizens on the issue.
a uachtaráin, dar ndóigh tá fadhb mhór againn le buiséad leasaitheach uimh. 6/2013 agus chuir cathaoirligh na ngrúpaí éagsúla sa parlaimint é sin in iúl inné sa díospóireacht a bhí againn sa seomra seo. dá bhrí sin, a luaithe agus is féidir an fhadhb seo a réiteach is fearr é don aontas i gcoitinne agus d’íomhá na parlaiminte. having said that, i just wanted to say that the debate yesterday was illuminating but also somewhat disconcerting. to people looking in, it would perhaps appear that the council, the commission and parliament were fighting like little children. but the reality is that the council does not seem to accept the fact that, under the lisbon treaty, we now have co-decision. we are, therefore, no longer in a position to be pushed around. for that reason, i hope the council will wake up, accept its responsibilities, give us the budget that has been promised and let us get on with the work.
in writing. − i supported the la via report on the draft amending budget 6/2013 but only on the condition that the council must urgently adopt draft amending budget 8/2013. we must pay our bills; we owe it to citizens and the european parliament has a responsibility in this matter. also, my vote on the mff 2014-2020 regulation will depend on the outcome in council on draft amending budget 8/2013.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo agus bhí díospóireacht an-mhaith faoi aréir sa pharlaimint agus bhí áthas orm páirt a ghlacadh sa díospóireacht sin. tá súil agam go ndéanfaimid dul chun cinn amach anseo go háirithe maidir le polasaí 2020 agus go dtí 2050. tabharfaidh sé sin cinnteacht do gach duine faoi cad a bheidh ag tarlú sa pharlaimint agus san eoraip. there are just two additional points i would like to make in relation to what i said last night. one is that we have to concentrate on third countries and ensure that any food – fish, for example – coming into europe complies with the same environmental standards that we expect here in europe. secondly, we must ensure that the policies we undertake do not have a negative effect on the environment in third countries – particularly in relation to deforestation – as has been alleged by some ngos.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement reached with the council, under the irish presidency, in june for the european environmental action programme (2014-20). this, the seventh, european action programme, sets out the major priorities and guidelines for eu environmental policy, and hence member states’ environmental policies, over the next seven years. the action programme is aimed at steering europe’s transition towards a resource-efficient, low-carbon and environmentally-friendly economy that protects and strengthens the environment as well as the health and well-being of citizens. i particularly welcome the emphasis placed by the ep in the new programme on improving the implementation of eu environmental laws, as well as the emphasis on waste management, the combined effects of chemicals, the need for a legally-binding framework for energy and climate policy by 2020, the need for progress on soil protection and the elimination of environmentally-damaging subsidies in the new programme. i would now urge the council to approve the seventh programme without delay and the challenges identified in this programme should be addressed by means of concrete proposals from the commission.
in writing. − i was happy to support the ulmer report on ionising radiation, in particular the reference to radon gas. i live in an area which has significantly high levels of radon gas and the danger to health must be highlighted and remediated. homes, schools and all buildings should be tested for radon levels where it is known that the risks are greatest. practical advice as regards ventilation should be given to citizens, as well as financial assistance towards remediation of building.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the brok own-initiative resolution on the council’s annual report on the eu common foreign and security policy in 2012, although i do not support all parts of it, most notably the calls for closer eu-nato cooperation. ireland takes part in the eu common foreign and security policy in accordance with the eu treaties, including article 42(2) which provides that union policy in the common security and defence policy arena shall not prejudice the specific character of the security and defence policy of certain member states (i.e. irish neutrality) and in accordance with ireland’s ‘triple-lock’ under which members of the irish defence forces participate in international missions upon approval by the irish government, approval by the irish parliament and under a un mandate. i welcome the emphasis in this resolution that all eu common foreign and security policies and actions should be in accordance with international law and the charter of the united nations and anchored in the eu’s fundamental values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
mr president, just to conclude: i would like to thank you for the manner in which you conducted today’s sitting, particularly for giving us an opportunity to have our say, and also for the previous sittings that you have presided over.
blue-card question. – i hesitate to bother asking mr agnew a question, but i sometimes think that if we leave comments unquestioned we are sitting idly by and agreeing, and i disagree. i would ask him whether he has any respect for our young people – and i have a few children myself – and their ability to discern what is right and what is wrong, and their ability as mature young people to live and learn by sharing experiences. i think mr agnew’s comments show disrespect to our youth.
mr president, i have a brief point of order. you have a very difficult job. i am just wondering whether there is a written or unwritten rule that, if you speak by way of a blue-card question, you then exclude yourself from a one-minute speech in the catch-the-eye part of the debate. it has been a really good debate. i wanted to compliment doris pack in particular for her hard work on this issue and to say that we should really make sure students realise that it is a european union-funded project and they could promote it.
a uachtaráin, tá áthas orm cúpla focal a rá ar an ábhar tábhachtach seo agus go háirithe ba mhaith liom an coimisinéir, an rapóirtéir agus uachtaránachtaí na héireann agus na liotuáine a mholadh as an dea-obair a rinne siad chun na moltaí seo a thabhairt os ár gcomhair anseo anocht. tá a fhios agam go raibh an-suim ag mo chomhghleacaí féin, aire na héireann jimmy deenihan, sa tuarascáil seo agus beidh sé sásta go bhfuil toradh faighte air anois. is fiú tacaíocht a thabhairt do na meáin agus do chúrsaí cultúrtha i gcoitinne, agus cé nach bhfuil an buiséad rómhór - eur 1.4 billiún, méadú 9% - bheadh sé níos fearr dá mbeadh sé níos mó. ach bíodh sin mar atá, caithfimid an rud is fearr a dhéanamh leis. go háirithe, chun cabhair a thabhairt do na gnónna miona agus meánmhéide agus airgead a chur ar fáil dóibh trí dheontais agus trí iasachtaí amach anseo. is fiú an tuarascáil seo a ghlacadh agus a mholadh.
a uachtaráin, tá an-díomá orm leis an chomhaontú seo maidir le héirinn agus ní féidir liom comhghairdeachas a dhéanamh la huachtaránacht na héireann. the decision of the irish government to totally ignore the western region of ireland is shameful. it is regrettable that, in ireland, the ten-t core network is confined only to the east and south of ireland. this decision will only serve to widen the gap between the peripheral border, midland and western (bmw) region and the rest of the country. prior to submitting its plans, the irish government failed to consult or involve in their decision-making respected bodies such as the bmw regional assembly and the western development commission. the government has extended the network to include limerick, and now, even at this late stage and however embarrassing it may be for the government, i call for the ten-t core network to be extended to the western region in order to develop rail, road, energy and communications links. at the very least, a feasibility study into a multimodal route along the western arc needs to be carried out, with the involvement of the western development commission and the bmw regional assembly.
mr president, the commissioner used the words ‘exceptional circumstances’ and this debate has to be couched with his words in mind as the circumstances are indeed exceptional. let me thank the negotiators and yourself, commissioner, and indeed the council, who worked under very difficult conditions. i know that the atmosphere was not always warm, but i think it has thawed now, so well done to you for doing that. to those who would say ‘no’, i would say that ‘no’ is the easiest word to use in the english language – indeed in any language. to say ‘yes’ is a responsible position to hold and to fight for better in the future, so we will be saying ‘yes’. that is progress. i would like to comment briefly on an irish project that received eur 17.4 million in allocations to build a bridge between part of my constituency in louth and northern ireland. that money has now been withdrawn by the special eu programmes body, but it is not the eu itself that has withdrawn this money and it is an issue which the irish authorities and the uk authorities should resolve. this is a peace-building project and i think the commission supports it, as i do. so let’s those of us in this chamber who can make it happen work towards that end.
mr president, i too welcome the debate this morning and in particular – hopefully – the imminent acceptance of the multiannual financial framework because, firstly, this will bring certainty to the european union and the projects that are waiting to get off the ground based on the report on the mff. i think it also proves that, despite all the wrangling, at the end of the day we can get a successful outcome, and that is important. i would especially like to thank also the negotiators on behalf of parliament who did a tremendous job, in very difficult circumstances, to ensure that we got the best possible outcome. looking forward, it is important that we work really hard at getting own resources for the european project. i do not accept that this is a grab for power by parliament or anything of that kind. i think it will make things much easier and much more balanced in the future and that we will have less wrangling. well done to the commissioner and all the negotiators. hopefully we will have an outstandingly positive result in the vote.
mr president, a us presidential candidate once declared that a hypocrite is the kind of politician who would cut down a redwood tree then mount the stump and make a speech for conservation. what we have seen here today is comparable behaviour in my opinion. it is not long ago that commission president barroso declared that austerity had reached its limits, but today we have the commission saying that a seven-year savage cuts budget will better respond to the needs of europe. does that include the needs of the 27 million unemployed people in europe? the council today told us this is an investment budget. what investment, when we have cuts to the structural funds and cuts to the cohesion fund? the meps from the big groups are the biggest hypocrites here. they posture opposition for months, then declare this is the best possible budget deal and that they have no alternative but to vote in favour of it. let the facts show very clearly: all of the talk of ending austerity from all sides of the european establishment, from the ppe to the social democrats, is empty rhetoric when it continues to shove austerity down working people’s throats.
mr president, i wish that mr la via’s comments about banning exhausting night sessions could make this happen. it tends to be the way we do business, but i agree that we should try and work during daylight hours. this debate is literally a follow-up to the previous debate. in agriculture, for example, we are looking at telling our farmers that they will take a cut in direct payments in 2014 of around 2 %. so our budget cuts are very much a reality for individuals, and indeed member states are now looking at how they can best use those resources. today in ireland, farmers will be protesting, looking for support for rural development. this is happening across europe, with farmers trying to get matching funding, and we can support these endeavours because this funding means a lot to low income farmers. but there are conflicting and difficult demands in all member states on this issue, and that is why it is so important that we have negotiated at least the figures and that there is certainty not just for 2014, but also beyond.
a uachtaráin, déanfaidh mé iarracht míniú a dheanamh, cé go bhfuil a lán fothraim timpeall ach bíodh sin mar atá cuirim fáilte gur glacadh leis an mff anseo inniu le móramh mór – 537 bhfeisire ina fhabhar, 126 fheisire ina choinne agus 19 fheisire ag staonadh. dá bhrí sin ós rud é go bhfuil sé glacadh againn anois, tugann sé sin cinnteacht do gach duine maidir leis an mbuiséad idir na blianta 2014 - 2020 agus is dóigh liom go bhfuil jab an-mhaith déanta, go háirithe ag na feisirí a bhí ag déileáil leis agus na rapóirtéirí agus mar sin de. rud amháin ba mhaith liom a rá gur mbeadh sé go han-mhaith dá mbeadh seans againn amach anseo ár n-acmhainn féin a bheith againn, i dtreo agus nach mbeimid ag brath ar na ballstáit amach anseo. ní bhfuaireamar an méid a bhí ag teastáil uainn, is trua é sin, ach caithfimid níos mó a dhéanamh le níos lú airgid agus trí chur le chéile is féidir linn é sin a dhéanamh ar mhaithe lenár saoránaigh.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the multiannual financial framework (mff), as it provides eur 960 billion in commitments and, overall, represents a good deal for ireland, which remains a net recipient until at least 2020. the mff agreement includes a eur 100 million top-up for the border, midland and western region; eur 150 million to continue the peace programme, which will benefit the border counties; and eur 1.5 billion in annual payments to farmers and rural communities under the new common agricultural policy. the mff also includes important programmes to help tackle the enormous problem of unemployment, including funding under the european social fund and the new youth unemployment initiative.
in writing. − i supported this report, even though it is clear that the amounts in the multiannual financial framework are not sufficient to address issues such as the youth guarantee, overall support for tackling youth unemployment, cohesion funding and innovation funds. however, it would not be appropriate to delay funding for these programmes.
in writing. − this is a budget of cuts and austerity for the remainder of a decade that has been marked thus far by economic crisis. while i am far from happy with it, we could not afford to block any further the budgets from 2014 onwards, with all the uncertainty that would bring, in the face of a council that would not budge. faced with substantial cuts, we insisted on extra flexibility in the use of funds for critical areas. we managed to secure a commitment that, halfway through this budgetary framework, our spending needs will be reviewed in the light of the economic circumstances. we have also convinced the council to consider alternatives to the current way of funding eu activities. there is currently over-reliance on cash-strapped national treasuries. the imposition of punishments on eu regions for breaches of budgetary discipline is a double whammy – punishing regions that need cohesion funding. not only is this unjust in itself, but it also shows that the conservative powers in the eu continue wilfully to confuse the causes and the consequences of national deficits, ignoring what has been spent on saving the failed financial system and coping with eurozone imbalances that are felt most in the peripheral eu countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it works to improve the functioning of the annual budgetary procedure and general budgetary cooperation between the institutions. previously, the institutions’ alignment in this area had been lacking, and this functional resolution is a step towards correcting this.
in writing. − in light of the new regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund, i am pleased to see that this has been mobilised to help the workers made redundant in these 140 enterprises in the comunidad valencia region. the coordinated package foresees financial incentives for job seeking, mobility allowances and outplacement incentives, which will help redundant workers to return to education and to retrain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is clear that comunidad valenciana has been severely affected by the crisis and is a suitable candidate for the egf. unemployment has been rising rapidly and this measure ensures that the requisite adjustment funds are made available to assist those affected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because this revised version of the gpa makes the document more clear and transparent and significantly extends its coverage by securing roughly eur 30 billion in additional market opportunities. procurement rules are outlined in greater detail, electronic procurement measures are improved upon, and gpa reporting is also developed. such improvements to eu procurement are to be welcomed.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do na vótaí seo go léir de réir mar a mhol ár ngrúpa epp agus ag deireadh na dála bhí mé sásta gur ghlac 632 as 691 fheisire leis na moltaí. tá moladh mór ag dul do gach daoine, go háirithe an rapóirtéir, doris pack, cathaoirleach an choiste um chultúr agus oideachas ina bhfuil mé mar bhall. mar a dúirt sí féin, tá cúig bliana agus fiche caite aici ag obair ar na rudaí seo agus ar deireadh báire, is dóigh liom, tá tionchar maith ag erasmas i gcoitinne agus tá toradh maith againn anois. pé ainm a thugann tú air, erasmus +, erasmus do chách nó yes (youth education and sport - an óige, oideachas agus spórt), is maith an rud é. go háirithe, mar fhear mór spóirt mé féin, tá spórt anois sa chlár den chéad uair de bharr chonradh liospóin agus fáiltím go mór roimhe sin agus tabharfaidh sé sin an-aitheantas agus an-ghríosadh don lucht spóirt i gcoitinne.
madam president, there will be an attempt after this vote to say that all is fine, erasmus funding is now secured. i think the students in spain will see things differently. at the start of this month the spanish minister for education cut their national contribution to erasmus, including scrapping a eur 120 per month allowance. other governments have already cut their national contributions. so while increased funding from the eu is welcome, it needs to be put in the broader context of cuts at the national level to our education systems. what we are seeing across europe is death by a thousand cuts. even in this largely positive proposal we have the stealth attack of the loan guarantee scheme, which will encourage master’s students to get into debt just like their counterparts in the us in order to pay for their education. this will particularly affect the most disadvantaged young people already struggling to pay for their education. it is for that reason that i abstained on this report. the way to secure proper funding for education is through a struggle of students and education workers in a fight against cuts and privatisation and for free education and grants for all.
i scríbhinn. − a uachtaráin, i ndiaidh tréimshe fada plé, is cúis áthais dom í vótáil ar son an chláir erasmus plus. is scáthchlár nua oideachais, oiliúna, óige agus spóirt don thréimhse 2014-2020 é seo a d’fhéadfadh dul i bhfeidhm go mór ar phobail an ae agus ar an aos óg go háirithe. thar thréimhse seacht mbliana an chláir beidh breis is ceithre milliún duine óg i dteideal maoiniú a fháil chun dul i mbun oideachais, oiliúna, obair dheonach nó gníomhaíochtaí spóirt nó óige i mballstát eorpach nach a dtír dhúchais í. beidh cúrsaí bainistíochta faoin gclár nua simplithe níos easca trédhearcaí, beidh fáil níos furasta ar mhaoiniú agus beidh laghdú ar na costais riaracháin. ní mór do rialtais na mballstát an clár a chur i bhfeidhm gan mhoill agus a chinntiú go mbíonn na hacmhainní, maoiniú agus eolas cuí ar fáil d’eagraíochtaí oideachasúla agus spóirt chun an clár seo a chur in oiriúint do mhuintir a dtíortha. mar iar-aire spóirt agus óige, is cúis shásaimh ar leith dom é go bhfuil aitheantas á thabhairt don chéad uair don spóirt mar bheartas oifigiúil eorpach. beidh cumainn spóirt agus óige agus oibrithe óige eile in ann anois maoiniú a bhaint amach don oiliúint, malartú agus líonrú.
in writing. − at a time when nearly six million young people, including 60 000 in ireland, are out of work, i very much welcome the adoption of the new education, training youth and sport erasmus+ programme. erasmus has been one of the most successful eu programmes and erasmus+ will build upon this success and that of the lifelong learning programme and youth in action. four million people will be able to study, train, work or volunteer abroad over the next seven years, compared to 2.7 million at present, including two million higher education students, 650 000 vocational education students and apprentices, 800 000 school teachers, lecturers and youth workers, and 500 000 young people. erasmus+ will also support partnerships between educational institutions, youth organisations, businesses, public authorities and ngos as well as education reforms. i welcome in particular the inclusion for the first time of dedicated eu spending on sports, including grassroots sports. i remain to be fully convinced about the merits of a european student loan guarantee facility for masters’ students. the safeguards inserted by the european parliament in this regard must be applied in full so that no student is left with unsustainable college debts.
in writing. − i strongly support and welcome the adoption of the erasmus+ programme as it will enable over four million students across the eu to train or study abroad. the programme will have a total budget of eur 14.7 billion, meaning that more students will have an opportunity to undertake study abroad, as well as providing access to cheaper loans for completing a master’s abroad. for the first time under the erasmus+ programme sport will also be included, with an emphasis on grassroots sports. the number of irish students participating in the erasmus programme has increased considerably over the last number of years, with 2 128 students participating in the programme for the years 2009/2010 compared with over 2 754 students for the years 2011/2012.
in writing. − i was happy to support the erasmus+ proposal due to begin in january 2014. the regulation streamlines important existing eu programmes for education, training and youth and i welcome the inclusion of sport for the first time within the regulation. youth unemployment is one of the biggest challenges currently facing the european union and the erasmus+ programme will be vital in combating this endemic problem. the opportunity to participate in higher education, vocational education and training, to obtain student grants and loans, to participate in youth exchanges and volunteering and benefit from partnerships between educational institutions, youth organisations and businesses will foster entrepreneurship and an exchange of best practices and will encourage young people’s participation in the labour market bridging the current skills gap in europe. the experience of travelling and meeting peers from across europe will also foster social cohesion and youth participation in the european project. by investing in youth education and employment through erasmus+ we are investing in europe’s future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it ensures that the three primary areas of the programme – education and training, youth, and sport – will maintain their own specific identities, objectives and budgets, which is important to their functioning, within the broader erasmus+ programme. at a broader level, the resolution builds on an already successful erasmus programme, through measures such as expanding the capacity for educational loans and grants, and it has my support.
in writing. − the erasmus programme has been one of the clearest manifestations of the value the european union has had for its citizens. every year, thousands of students get the opportunity to spend an academic year studying in a university in a different member state. however, anyone who has had immediate experience of the programme would confirm that the erasmus programme provides far more than just academic opportunities to its participants; it provides students with a rich cultural education. i voted in favour of this report to help sustain the programme, by guaranteeing more funding for the programme, to broaden its reach, by opening a proportion of its funding for sport and extending its masters element, and to allow more of europe’s youth to avail of it, by implementing a student loan guarantee facility.
a uachtaráin, arís bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt don ghrúpa agus do na vótaí go léir sa tuarascáil seo agus go háirithe bhí mé sásta gur ghlac 650 as 692 fheisire leis an tuarascáil. is fiú é, dar ndóigh, mar tugann an tuarascáil seo fostaíocht do 8.5 milliún duine trasna na heorpa agus tá siad ag soláthar 4% d’oti na heorpa. dá bhrí sin, is fiú eur 1.46 billiún a chaitheamh ar an gclár seo. tugann an clár nua seo na cláir éagsúla a bhí againn go dtí seo le chéile agus is maith é sin. agus freisin, tá siad chun airgead a chur ar fáil do d’fhiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide, iasachtaí, agus deontais agus is maith é sin. freisin, tá muid ag súil leis an téip dhearg a ghearradh do na fiontair bheaga agus meánmhéide agus fáiltíonn gach duine roimhe sin agus deasca a chur ar fáil sna ballstáit agus cabhróidh siad siúd go mór leis na fiontair bheaga agus mheánmhéide chun iad a chur in eolas faoi oibriú an chláir seo.
in writing. − europe’s cultural and creative sectors (ccs) should be recognised for their intrinsic cultural value but also for the major contribution they make to growth and jobs, particularly in large urban areas. a 2010 dublin city council report found that dublin’s ccs were responsible for 77 000 jobs in the greater dublin area, making up 10% of total employment and generating total gross added value of eur 3.2 billion for the dublin city-region. spending on culture is not a luxury, but a smart investment and it is at times of economic crisis that we most need culture. i therefore very much welcome the new creative europe programme. this will see spending of almost eur 1.5 billion – 9% more than the current programme – supporting european culture, music, literature, the performing arts, heritage and related sectors, over the next seven years. funding will also be available under erasmus+, cosme and horizon 2020 as well as the structural funds. i would like to see my own city of dublin now use creative europe and these other programmes to emulate cities like barcelona and amsterdam and tap in to the potential of its ccs as a way of promoting wider socio-economic development.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report. with the creative europe programme’s budget for the next seven years to increase by 9%, investment in and promotion of the cultural and creative sectors on the single market will be important for jobs and sustainable growth as well as promoting cultural diversity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i felt that this proposal is a great initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises and organisations in the cultural and creative sectors. the programme will be composed of two sub-programmes (media and culture) and one cross-sectoral strand, each sub-programme having its own budget priorities and logos and most importantly we have agreed to allocate specific percentage rates for each programme.
in writing. − i supported this report as i believe it is vital that citizens feel connected to and included in the european union. european citizenship must be promoted by illustrating our common interests and values and remembering our shared history. encouraging citizen participation with the union is essential; citizens’ day-to-day lives are impacted by decisions made at eu level and every citizen has a vested interest in understanding and engaging the european project.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a fantastic initiative that will enhance civic participation at eu level, something of great importance to the future of the union. the initiatives it promotes, such as citizens’ meetings, social media engagement, debates, awareness-raising, and the creation of transnational community links, are essential to keeping european citizens engaged and involved in the eu going forward.
madam president, the more we connect europe, the more we will connect the people of europe, particularly in trying to reduce the democratic deficit that people speak of and the feeling that people do not see europe as being relevant to their lives. if we can connect europe, especially in relation to transport, energy and telecommunications, that will help to alleviate that problem somewhat. in the telecommunications area, eliminating roaming and having high speed broadband right across europe will obviously go a long way to connecting europe in that regard. energy is absolutely vital and will become more vital into the future, and europe certainly has to wean itself off dependency on importing fuels, especially fossil fuels, from third countries. we have to utilise the resources within europe. mr turmes referred last night to renewable resources, especially the potential of offshore wind off the west coast of ireland and scotland, where you have the most reliable wind in europe. these aspects have to be taken into account.
a uachtaráin, d’fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht ar an ábhar seo aréir agus an díospóireacht ar an ábhar a chuaigh roimhe chomh maith, ach níor éirigh liom preab na súile a fháil. dá bhrí sin, tá áthas orm go bhfuil seans agam cúpla focal a rá anois. agus freisin, bhí áthas orm tacaíocht a thabhairt do mo ghrúpa sna vótaí go léir anseo inniu agus gur glacadh leis an tuarascáil le móramh mór arís. trans-european transport networks are something we would all support, and particularly, on the continent of europe, the idea of having high-speed rail, etc., connecting one place with another, quickly and speedily, and hopefully cheaply for citizens, it is something we all support. but we have to be conscious that there are islands like my own island of ireland that cannot be connected by high-speed rail. for that reason motorways of the sea would be very important to us. also, a more benign attitude than we would take elsewhere should be taken to regional airports in island regions. those two points are important for me.
in writing. − unfortunately i am not in a position the agreement on the trans-european transport network. it is regrettable that in ireland the ten-t core network is confined only to the east and south of ireland. this decision will only serve to widen the gap between the peripheral border, midland and western region and the rest of ireland. the government extended the network to include limerick and even at this late stage, however embarrassing it may be for the government, i call for the ten-t core network to be extended to the western region in order to develop rail, road, energy and communications links. at the very least, a feasibility study into a multi-modal route along the western arc needs to be carried out with the involvement of the western development commission and the bmw regional assembly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it ensures the continuation of the iter project, which has done great work thus far. such research deserves our support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it will support the euratom programme going forward. it clearly outlines the specific objectives of r&d in the important field of nuclear energy, and ensures that the requisite financial instruments and budget are in place.
in writing. − as a result of the votes today billions of euros will be pumped into the nuclear energy industry and will serve as a boost to this inherently dangerous technology. the madness of capitalism is nowhere more clearly on display than in the fact that, despite disaster after disaster, there is an increase in the number of nuclear power plants being built. the iaea estimate that we could see nearly a doubling of global generation capacity by 2030. the neo liberal agenda does not exempt this deadly technology from privatisation and liberalisation. the disaster in fukushima, which continues to pose a grave threat, graphically demonstrates that big business cannot be trusted to put safety ahead of profit when it comes to nuclear power. nuclear power and energy production must be placed under democratic public ownership and control where ordinary people have full control over safety and can plan the safest and most efficient methods of moving away from nuclear power. instead of pumping billions into nuclear we need a massive plan of investment in renewable energy production so we can move away from fossil fuels and nuclear energy in favour of genuinely renewable and sustainable energy production.
in writing. − this is a vital amendment and it is needed to highlight the global importance of nuclear safety. i voted in favour of this amendment as we need to continue the efforts to improve nuclear safety to meet the highest standards. the nuclear safety co-operation instrument (nsci) finances measures to support a higher level of nuclear safety, radiation protection and the application of efficient and effective safeguards of nuclear materials in third countries, which is greatly needed.
mr president, the president of ireland, michael d. higgins, said here last april that there is a growing social chasm which is threatening europe and its core values: unemployment is at a 15-year high; 26 million people, including nearly 6 million young people, are unemployed; 40 million people suffer from severe material deprivation – not able to afford a meal every second day; and 4 million people are homeless. the european social fund (esf) is the major european instrument we have for investing in people: to help people find work and rise out of poverty. as rapporteur for the fund for european aid to the most deprived, i welcomed the agreement to increase the fund to eur 3.5 billion as demanded by parliament. i also commend the priority placed on youth employment measures in the social fund. it is incumbent now on the member states to come forward with ambitious national plans to help reduce unemployment and poverty. while i welcomed the minimum share of 20% esf funding for tackling poverty, i regret that the council did not accept a 25% minimum share of cohesion funding for the esf, and i hope that the new flexibility provisions will provide resources for the esf in the coming years.
mr president, first of all, compliments to the commissioners and indeed the rapporteurs – who are too numerous to mention – for their really hard work in bringing about the best possible conclusion, given the circumstances in which we find ourselves and the reduced budget. for me, one of the most uplifting aspects of travelling through the european union is seeing the eu insignia with the words ‘funded by the european union’ at railways, ports, airports and motorways right across ireland and, indeed, across europe. of course this needs to continue, particularly in areas of cohesion. what is also pleasing about this is that it fits in with the 2020 strategy on which we are going to be judged post-2020, especially as regards providing 20% to fight poverty and trying to provide jobs for those who are poor because they have no jobs. there is also the commitment to lower-carbon technologies, which fits in with our targets to reduce co2 emissions again. i would also like to see a particular emphasis on developing technology parks and research facilities, because this will be the key to providing new companies with opportunities to develop and to dealing with the unemployment crisis. finally, in my own country, particularly in relation to cross-border bottlenecks, i would like to see refunding for the narrow water bridge between louth in southern ireland and down in northern ireland. this has been withdrawn, but hopefully it can be resubmitted.
mr president, the eu’s structural and cohesion funds were devised with the most vulnerable amongst our eu regions and citizens in mind. our citizens need this money. that is why we fought for a higher share for the european social fund as the eu’s main tool to tackle poverty and unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. education, vocational training and lifelong learning remain a critical priority. regional disadvantages remain in terms of transport, energy infrastructure, sustainable urban development and improved it and communications networks. however, to attach macro-economic conditions to the payment of structural funding is to go flatly against the very spirit and purpose behind it. the regions and the citizens whose vulnerable circumstances make them eligible for these funds are not to blame for national government breaches of the ever-tighter budgetary constraints imposed by the fiscal hawks at the commission and the council of ministers.
mr president, in this very broad debate i want to be rather specific. i have written to commissioner hahn about this, but i want to read this into the record of the house. it is an issue about people with disabilities and de-institutionalisation. i have fought on this issue since 2005 and – like a dog with a bone – i will not let this go until we have fixed the situation. i appreciate that the text on ex ante conditionality – no 10 in the common provisions regulation – is a step forward, and i hope it means what it says. however, perhaps in your guidance documents, commissioner, you could strengthen the text. let me read it in the seconds that remain: ‘which should include measures to achieve the right to community living on an equal basis with others by planning for and implementing the transfer of resources from institutional care to more individualised arrangements in the community and by making community services more accessible’. if we achieve that, we will have done great work for those who do not speak in this chamber and who do not know of this debate happening, but whose lives will be affected.
mr president – very briefly – i bid for catch-the-eye speaking time in this debate. i did not get it, but quite honestly i can have no complaint based on the explanation you gave of the manner in which you distribute catch-the-eye times. it is the first time i have heard it so well explained. you distribute this time on a pro rata basis across the house and, i presume, on the basis of who comes in first. i was not in first or at the beginning of the debate. i would mention, however, that last night i was here for two full debates and i was not called. there is one further small point i would like to make. you mentioned that the debates are an hour beyond the scheduled timing. one reason for that is that people are allowed to go beyond their speaking time, and today i heard one person speak under catch-the-eye for 2 minutes and 23 seconds without being cut off. you are not the worst offender though!
mr president, this is a difficult and, at times, emotional topic for my group, which traditionally has supported a seat here in strasbourg for parliament. having said that, it is noticeable that the majority is declining – and understandably so – with the cost at around 180 million per year, co2 emissions, the difficulty and time it takes to get here and, of late, the trend of strikes or threats of strikes when parliamentarians are here. not good for the mood music. we also have to ask whether there is any other parliament in the world which spends three weeks in one city and one week in another city? is there any other parliament in the world that does not have a say in its location? having said that, i thought mr fox gave a very objective and fair account, in particular of strasbourg as a city. it is a beautiful city and a welcoming city and, for that reason, in any decision we might take, we should be sensitive to the void that would be left if we were to relocate out of strasbourg. i would suggest that we should perhaps look at the location of all institutions so that we get a balanced and objective approach to the matter which matches the needs of the european project as it goes forward. finally, i would also say that, because of the symbolism which mr fox referred to, perhaps rather than coming here twelve times a year, we might agree that, if changes are to be made, we would come here one week every year. that would preserve the symbolism.
mr president, let me pick up from where my colleague daniel caspary left off, because the focus in recent times has been on bilateral trade agreements and not the doha world trade agreement, which stalled so long ago that we have almost forgotten. we wish those who are negotiating well in their endeavours, although the director-general of the wto remains somewhat unconvinced that they can crack an agreement. i am interested in why the doha agenda stalled in 2008. it was over agriculture issues, and the commissioner has referred to this. it was a desire by the developing countries to protect their agriculture in a way that they saw fit. it is still an issue. i note that there is some progress, but i am not so sure that sufficient progress has been made and the issue of agriculture in trade agreements generally is a contentious one. we have a canada deal and a us bilateral deal with the eu in the offing, and we need to look very carefully at their implications for the agricultural sector in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, let me join in the thanks to colleagues and continue with some key remarks that i want to make on cap reform. the deal is done, but we have yet to see what the member states will do with the deal, because they looked for flexibility and they got it, and farmers are now anxiously waiting to see the rules in each member state. so am i. let us see how they behave on that. secondly, if there is less in the budget for the common agriculture policy – and there clearly is – we need to be very honest with farmers. we are demanding more from them, and there are more farmers, so the very least we should do in this debate is acknowledge that the market must deliver more to producers in terms of returns. that is a key demand that the chamber needs to make. next, we need a forensic look at the costs of producing food in the european union, the costs of inputs. they differ hugely compared with new zealand where, for example, there is no support, so let us look forensically at the bottom line for farmers. on penalties, i have a real concern that our promise of less bureaucracy generally will not be delivered and there is genuine fear among farmers about being penalised for having cross-compliance discretion. we need to be careful in terms of the mental health issues for our farmers around the severity of cross-compliance. we need a more understanding court of auditors – and with respect to them they are a very cosseted section of society, and they do not get their hands dirty. perhaps it would be good if they went farming for a day or two. on rural development funding, let me say this. we have secured a budget for rural development in my member state of eur 313 million per year. it is very welcome, but our government – and i say this to my own government – needs to make a clear commitment to fully fund and fully match that funding so that we have good agri-environmental schemes for farmers, we have good investment in on-farm efficiencies and we fund rural development leader programmes, thus making the most of the money that is available. it is a tall order, but i think it has to be delivered on. i do hope that parliament keeps a very watchful eye not just on delegated acts, because that is key and we have heard the warnings here, but also on implementation in member states, and that when the review clause comes into effect we are prepared to change where necessary.
mr president, i was there when the commissioner outlined his proposals for the common agricultural policy. by and large, while we obviously have compromises, he has covered some of the more important issues that he outlined that day, particularly with regard to the more equitable distribution of the single farm payment, greening – and he pointed out that this was very important if citizens were to buy into the necessity for the cap – and provisions for young farmers. i look forward to these provisions being implemented in a fair and equitable manner. i would also point out that in rural development programmes, particularly for countries that may be in a difficult financial situation, it is very important to have the possibility of using innovative instruments to maximise the potential. finally, with milk quotas ending in 2015, there should be a tapering off of the superlevy. after all, you cannot tell cows to stop milking in march and to start again on 1 april. so a practical approach here would be helpful.
i write. if there are no written letters to the farmers, there could be a future for your people, for the farmers and for the community. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, was adopted on the basis of the opinion of the committee of the regions of 16 june 2005. are you bathing in the hazelnut without a scent? it is also a privilege for those who work in the public sector to have a say in the case of an administrative decision. however, the laws in force in the netherlands have always been taken over by national governments to create a new type of cgt and to encourage the application of the law by farmers themselves. there are good things about the lease, especially the scheme for young farmers, the option to get the first heictear coupled, the coupled support and the choice of the amount to be paid to the active farmers. the persons concerned shall also be required by law to submit to the competent authorities of the member states any information which they may require in order to ensure that they are treated fairly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to provide macro-financial assistance to jordan for an amount of up to eur 180 million. this money will be used in order to support economic stabilisation and the funding is in the form of loans to that country.
in writing. − i welcome the parliament’s decision to approve changes to the european structural funds to help certain member states which have been worst affected by the economic crisis to continue to take advantage, until the end of 2013, of co-financing rates of 95%, i.e. 10% greater than normal, as agreed in 2011. this will not affect total eu regional funding in the member states concerned but will allow eu funds to be concentrated on completing some projects and thus reduce the pressure on national budgets.
in writing. − ireland will receive in excess of eur 1 billion under the eu structural funds regulations including the european regional development fund and the european social fund for the period 2014 to 2020. the border, midland and western region is expected to draw down in excess of eur 335 million for the period 2014 to 2020, more than 50%, of which must be designated to projects aimed at addressing unemployment under the european social fund. the remainder will support projects in ireland under the erdf such as broadband provision, low-carbon energy projects and support for smes.
in writing. − i voted against all the reports on the cohesion, development and social funds that related to the mff agreement reached in the week prior to the plenary session in november. in order to ensure the austerity deal that was agreed between the majority in the european parliament, the council and the commission, the president of the parliament and aspirant president of the commission, martin schulz, abused the powers that are given to him by the rules of procedure to introduce an undemocratic way of voting. the future funding introduces the principle of ‘macroeconomic conditionality’ which is a euphemism for austerity. i co-signed amendments that were deleting the threat of macroeconomic conditionality from the text. the president used his procedural powers to prevent these amendments from being voted. this is inacceptable blackmailing and i support the statements the gue/ngl made in this regard. i voted against to show a clear rejection of this blackmailing tactic despite the general importance of the cohesion, development and social funds, especially for many deprived and rural regions.
in writing. − the eu structural and cohesion funds were devised and are spent at local level with the most vulnerable regions and citizens in mind. although the left in this house was isolated in its opposition to so-called ‘macroeconomic conditionality’ in the negotiations with member states, we could not withhold these funds any further. we fought for a higher share to be allocated to the european social fund, to tackle poverty and unemployment, particularly youth unemployment through education as well as training. in ireland, as well as elsewhere, there are regional disadvantages and specific needs for transport and energy infrastructure, urban development and improved it and communications networks. however, attaching macroeconomic conditions to the payment of structural funding goes against the very spirit and purpose behind it. those who need it are not to blame for national breaches of the ever tighter budgetary constraints imposed by the fiscal hawks at the commission and the council of ministers. nor can we simply assume breaches, themselves, to be the outcome of profligacy, as should be evident after we had to save the financial sector from itself, only to fall prey to speculation on sovereign debt.
in writing. − the european social fund is vitally important to ireland and europe as the fund promotes employment – mainly by funding initiatives to help people improve their skills and job prospects. overall the esf share of the cohesion envelope is 23.1% that corresponds to eur 71 billion in the 2014-2020 period. the border, midland and western region is expected to draw down at least eur 335 million in structural funds over the next seven years, of which more than 50% must be designated towards esf projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the european social fund, however i was disappointed that the fund did not account for 25% of cohesion funding. that said, 23.1% was an improvement on previous years. i am not happy with regard to the macroeconomic conditionality involved, even the watered-down version we ended up with. however, given the importance of the social fund for social inclusion, i am pleased to see we have finally gotten agreement.
the president, like other legislators, was keen to support the report when it was voted on. is léir go raibh a lán daoine eile ar an intinn chéanna, mar voted 605 to 695 in bhfabhar. therefore, the vote to be taken is without prejudice to the recommendation to the rapporteur, mr olbrycht, to give the matter to the council. in the light of the choice of a regional development fund, i have seen in recent years a number of projects by people like danuta hübner, van nistelrooij, morin-chartier and others, especially in poland, to introduce a regional fund. i'd like to thank you for your help in finding a cure for the night. a lot of work has been put into this and it is producing good results now, especially in smes and research and development will help to create jobs in our regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the european regional development fund. ireland’s appropriation of regional funds was increase by 8% over the last round of funding, however there is still an overall decrease in funding for the bmw region. one of the major issues in regard to the designation of different regions is the fact that the gdp figures used are out of date and in the case of the bmw region largely reflect the position of this region before the recent economic crisis or at least at the beginning of it. this inflates its gdp and does not give a true picture of the current economic situation. more timely figures from eurostat are needed to solve this problem, as well as some type of midterm review.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it secures the appropriate continuation of the european regional development fund as a vital component in eu cohesion policy going forward from 2014. the erdf provides vital funding to areas in urgent need of development across europe and needs to be maintained going forward. this resolution strengthens its ability to do so, particularly with regard to urban areas.
in writing. − i voted against all the reports on the cohesion, development and social funds that related to the mff agreement reached in the week prior to the plenary session in november. in order to ensure the austerity deal that was agreed between the majority in the european parliament, the council and the commission, the president of the parliament and aspirant president of the commission, martin schulz, abused the powers that are given to him by the rules of procedure to introduce an undemocratic way of voting. the future funding introduces the principle of ‘macroeconomic conditionality’ which is a euphemism for austerity. i co-signed amendments that were deleting the threat of macroeconomic conditionality from the text. the president used his procedural powers to prevent these amendments from being voted. this is inacceptable blackmailing and i support the statements the gue/ngl made in this regard. i voted against to show a clear rejection of this blackmailing tactic despite the general importance of the cohesion, development and social funds, especially for many deprived and rural regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it works to simplify cohesion policy, making it more effective and streamlined. the central aim of the resolution was to develop a better, strategic orientation of the broad array of related programmes, and it delivers on this promise.
in writing. − i voted against all the reports on the cohesion, development and social funds that related to the mff agreement reached in the week prior to the plenary session in november. in order to ensure the austerity deal that was agreed between the majority in the european parliament, the council and the commission, the president of the parliament and aspirant president of the commission, martin schulz, abused the powers that are given to him by the rules of procedure to introduce an undemocratic way of voting. the future funding introduces the principle of ‘macroeconomic conditionality’ which is a euphemism for austerity. i co-signed amendments that were deleting the threat of macroeconomic conditionality from the text. the president used his procedural powers to prevent these amendments from being voted. this is inacceptable blackmailing and i support the statements the gue/ngl made in this regard. i voted against to show a clear rejection of this blackmailing tactic despite the general importance of the cohesion, development and social funds, especially for many deprived and rural regions.
the president, like the other rapporteurs, was pleased to have the support of the house and voted in favour. arís, i took you to the morramh mór agus is maith sin, mar rinne an rapóirtéir boştinaru agus a chomhghleacaithe an-chuid oibre. i'm not sure i'm ready to go. the european union has a number of instruments to help it to do so. i saw it as my own country; when we joined the union in 1973 we had a share of almost one-half of the gdp of the whole of europe. now that the economic collapse is affecting us, there is a higher standard of living because of this. therefore, i am pleased and hope that i will be able to help you again in the future.
in writing. − this fund is designed so that member states with a gdp of less than 90% of the eu average receive extra funds to assist them in growing their economies, hence aiding the process of cohesion. ireland no longer qualifies for this fund and unfortunately when it did most of the money was not spent in the bmw region, even though it was the figure from this region that allowed the entire country to qualify. member states have a duty to ensure that cohesion spending is used to narrow the economic gap between regions in member states thus contributing to overall cohesion in the eu.
in writing. − i voted against all the reports on the cohesion, development and social funds that related to the mff agreement reached in the week prior to the plenary session in november. in order to ensure the austerity deal that was agreed between the majority in the european parliament, the council and the commission, the president of the parliament and aspirant president of the commission, martin schulz, abused the powers that are given to him by the rules of procedure to introduce an undemocratic way of voting. the future funding introduces the principle of ‘macroeconomic conditionality’ which is a euphemism for austerity. i co-signed amendments that were deleting the threat of macroeconomic conditionality from the text. the president used his procedural powers to prevent these amendments from being voted. this is inacceptable blackmailing and i support the statements the gue/ngl made in this regard. i voted against to show a clear rejection of this blackmailing tactic despite the general importance of the cohesion, development and social funds, especially for many deprived and rural regions.
in writing. − i voted against all the reports on the cohesion, development and social funds that related to the mff agreement reached in the week prior to the plenary session in november. in order to ensure the austerity deal that was agreed between the majority in the european parliament, the council and the commission, the president of the parliament and aspirant president of the commission, martin schulz, abused the powers that are given to him by the rules of procedure to introduce an undemocratic way of voting. the future funding introduces the principle of ‘macroeconomic conditionality’ which is a euphemism for austerity. i co-signed amendments that were deleting the threat of macroeconomic conditionality from the text. the president used his procedural powers to prevent these amendments from being voted. this is inacceptable blackmailing and i support the statements the gue/ngl made in this regard. i voted against to show a clear rejection of this blackmailing tactic despite the general importance of the cohesion, development and social funds, especially for many deprived and rural regions.
madam president, i welcome today’s vote to make it mandatory for big companies to increase women’s participation on their boards, and i am calling on listed companies in dublin to step up to the plate now. in ireland, women occupy less than 11% of the seats at the boardroom tables of big corporates. however, the decisions on these companies’ activities tend to impact as much – if not more – on women as on men. by adopting this directive, parliament is sending a signal to governments and to listed companies that it is no longer acceptable to leave most corporate decision making in the hands of men. clearly, with so few women participating on the boards of big companies, not enough is being done at corporate level to encourage and actively pursue women’s involvement. this directive will require a genuine commitment by government and business groups alike to ensure its full implementation.
a uachtaráin, dhá óra ó shin bhronnamar duais sakharov ar malala yousafzai agus labhair sí faoi chomh tábhachtach agus a bheadh sé di agus do chailíní eile ina thre thre oideachas a fháil - an ceart aici gan dabht ar bith. (a) the sakharov prize is awarded to a woman who has made a significant contribution to the development of women's rights in the world. now we have to make a decision by voting on the balance between the two bodies and we have to be able to support them. there was more debate in the air, but we didn't have time to talk, so we didn't want to do it. the two points i want to make are: one, it has been said that, if lehman brothers had been lehman sisters, we certainly would not have had the major catastrophe that we had. that suggests and rightly so that we should have more women on boards. second, there was a proposal that family-owned enterprises should be exempt. i was going to support that until i looked at the title, because it talked about companies on the stock exchange. whether they are family-owned or not, they are not small if they are on the stock exchange, so the directive should apply to all companies.
in writing. − i was happy to support this report, it is crucial that women are involved at all levels of decision-making, political, social and economic. evidence shows that gender-balanced boards perform better than those which are not gender-balanced. gender balance has not happened without intervention and in those member states where there has been intervention, it has worked well. this proposal is for large listed companies only and will not involve a disproportionate burden on smes; time-limited measures such as quotas are an effective mechanism to ensure balance in decision-making.
in writing. − i voted to introduce gender quotas among non-executive directors of companies. i believe that gender quotas are needed to break the glass ceiling that continues to ensure that women are under-represented in company boards. however i voted against proposals to extend this measure to smes and family-operated businesses as i believe that this would go too far.
in writing. − the fact that only a tiny proportion of the members of boards and senior management of major companies are women is a symptom of the oppression and discrimination that women face under capitalism. the commission and the eu establishment will attempt to use this proposal to portray themselves as being in favour of equality and women’s rights. the reality is quite the opposite. the austerity policies that are being pushed by the commission are responsible for increasing inequality between men and women. the proposals only deal with women in senior management of major companies and will have absolutely no impact on the lives of the vast majority of working class and middle class women. in order to really increase equality we need to reverse austerity policies and invest in affordable childcare, decent maternity pay, parental leave, pensions and welfare. businesses must also be forced to implement family friendly working conditions. if the commission was serious about gender equality these are the measures they would take and not a tokenistic proposal for quotas at the tops of major companies which only serves to paper over the growing inequality between men and women.
in writing. − the issue of gender disparity on boards of directors is one that requires urgent action on the part of the eu. as it stands, women make up less than 15% of membership of boards of companies listed on the european stock exchange. introducing eu-wide compulsory quotas is crucial to achieving real change rather than hypothetical targets on paper. this proposal would demand that companies that have not met the target of 40% female representation on their board by 2020 would have to alter their selection criteria to give priority to female candidates. in politics we have seen the difference systemic solutions, such as gender quotas, have made in addressing this issue. i voted in favour of this report as part of a holistic set of solutions aimed at making much needed progress on this issue.
i wrote it. − i fully support the report on back-compliance and the risk-based approach to implementation. the commission shall adopt a decision in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 25 of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 on the application of the provisions of this regulation to the national rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on the application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application of the rules on application. i would also welcome the opportunity to ask for the application of the directive if it is not completed within the first hour. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all farmers in the same way as to all other farmers. the swedish farmers' association has recently introduced legislation which allows the payment of a two-year suspension of payments to farmers in the absence of a valid application.
in writing. − i supported this agreement. in particular i welcome the early warning system for farmers and the clearer rules on cross compliance.
i wrote it. - voted against the report on the development of the tuatha. i welcome the fact that the member states will continue to provide for the necessary measures to meet their own needs and to ensure that the conditions for the implementation of the common fisheries policy are met. i'm proposing laws that would cut 5% of the funding for the leader programme. it is also important to note that the local economy is not affected by the borradh, but by the laws that create the local economy. the leader programme should be launched at national level without delay. the measures taken by the commission to assist young farmers will help to raise the profile of the agricultural sector in the eu. the commission will continue to support young farmers and encourage them to enter the sector and encourage them to take part in the eu's agricultural training courses. i also welcome the financial support of the foro ejecutivo. i am very pleased to see that the council's training service is now being extended and that more resources are being used in the service to deal with safety issues.
in writing. − i voted to support the report on rural development. i particularly welcome the earmarking of at least 5% of the funds for the leader programme. the leader programme has been instrumental to date in encouraging the diversification of economic activity in rural areas, including supports for non-agricultural activities and for supporting the development of vibrant and sustainable rural communities. it is essential that the leader programme is implemented at the member state level without unnecessary red tape and that the funding which has been allocated to assist local projects is distributed as promptly as possible. i strongly welcome the inclusion of business start-up grants for young farmers and the allocation of funds for farm restructuring and modernisation which will boost local economies, creating jobs and strengthening rural communities in a sustainable manner. under this agreement, the new european innovation partnership for agricultural productivity and sustainability will provide a platform for greater cooperation between agriculture and research. this will facilitate knowledge transfer and will also boost the competitiveness of our farmers and the agri-food sector overall.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report even though the cut in funding is significant and will impact on european farmers. in ireland the crucial issue is that the government adequately co-fund this programme. this will be crucial for the maintenance of the family farm and also for protection of the environment.
in writing. − pii offers a very wide degree of flexibility to member states. i would hope that ireland will adopt a 50:50 co-financing level for all pii projects.
in writing. − i welcome the forthcoming liberalisation of the eu sugar and milk markets. a liberalised eu market is ideal for a small producer/exporter nation like ireland.
in writing. − i voted to support the agreement reached on the reform of direct payments. while this reform is not perfect, it aims to strike a balance between food security and environmental protection while assisting farmers in receiving a fair return for fair work. furthermore, flexibility has been built in for member states to tailor a policy which best reflects the needs and specificities of their agricultural sector. it is essential that we give farmers the stability and security to plan ahead. the agreement contains many positive aspects, such as the targeting of active farmers and the new young farmers’ scheme. at present, only 6% of european farmers are younger than 35. european agriculture is facing the real problem of not having enough farmers on the land to meet the food security and environmental challenges the cap is tasked with. the mandatory eu-wide scheme to give young farmers an extra 25% in top-up payments, as well as additional targeted measures under pillar 2, are to be welcomed and implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. − i welcome the 25% top-up for young farmers. this is badly needed at a time when only 7% of irish farmers are under 35 years of age and 25% are over 70. that is not a model on which to base our growth aspirations.
in writing. − in view of the fact that it will be impossible for the reformed common agricultural policy to come into force on 1 january 2014, it was important that this report be passed today. this report ensures that the cap can continue to function in the year 2014 and provides a smooth transition to the new system, upon which political agreement has already been reached.
in writing. − we voted against paragraph 4 on the basis that this is an issue which needs discussion in order to prepare for any initiatives, though we favour the one seat objective. we voted against paragraph 8 as there is no treaty basis for one seat at present. it would not be a productive use of the time of the court of auditors at this stage. in the final vote we abstained to reflect our support for one seat but we are concerned about aspects of this report.
in writing. − we voted against paragraph 4 on the basis that this is an issue which needs discussion in order to prepare for any initiatives, though we favour the one seat objective. we voted against paragraph 8 as there is no treaty basis for one seat at present. it would not be a productive use of the time of the court of auditors at this stage.
in writing. − upon becoming familiar with the functions of the european parliament, i, like many other citizens, was bemused to discover that, for one week every month, the european parliament transports itself from brussels to strasbourg. as one can easily imagine, the costs involved in such an operation are vast, estimated at eur 180 million a year. there are also significant environmental consequences to the current arrangement, with the best estimation being that it produces 19 000 tonnes of co2 a year. as a member of the single seat steering group of the european parliament, i wholeheartedly voted in favour of this report. the parliament has now sent a strong message to the european council, that this expenditure can no longer be justified. it is my sincere hope that the council will see sense and make it possible to end the travelling circus once and for all.
mr president, elbit systems is an israeli armaments company that produces the drones that kill palestinians. israel aerospace industries is another israeli armaments company which helped to develop israel’s apartheid wall. ahava dead sea laboratories has a factory located in an illegal settlement in the occupied west bank. ariel university is also based in an illegal settlement. what do all of these institutions have in common, apart from being active participants in the act of oppression and occupation against the palestinians? they all received tens of millions of euros of european taxpayers’ money under the previous research framework programme. that money makes the eu complicit in israeli war crimes and it makes a joke of the supposed honest broker status of the eu. the guidelines to ensure that no more money goes to institutions involved in the occupation are welcome, but we have seen very strong pressure from john kerry and others to water them down, to delay them and to have ‘sensitive’ implementation, which in reality would mean no implementation. i would like the commissioner to answer very clearly today whether the commission agrees that the guidelines must be strictly implemented in their entirety to ensure that none of this research money goes to support the occupation.
madam president, while we have not got all we wanted, eur 70 billion is quite a substantial sum. we can do a lot with it, particularly because of the way the programme has been developed. certainly europe needs to re-find its innovative mojo, because in the past we did some very good innovative things. for instance, the gsm standard for mobile phones was developed by a previous eu-funded project. we now need to develop future standards so that the eu can lead the way globally. we could lead the way by setting technical standards for privacy in the online world. last week i hosted a breakfast in parliament with the key foundation, and certainly that is something that would feed into horizon 2020. there are also many institutes and universities, including in my own constituency, doing valuable work which can feed into the horizon 2020 concept. for instance, at the waterford institute of technology there is itraffic: developing real-time information for consumers and businesses, to be fed into their smartphones to help them plan their journeys, etc. there is an awful lot going on in europe about which we have been somewhat negative. horizon 2020 can pull it all together, especially with the idea of a fast-track to innovation, encouraging smes and having new applicants. i would like to conclude by thanking everyone, and particularly commissioner geoghegan-quinn from ireland, whom we are very proud of for spearheading all this over recent years.
madam president, it is extremely important to invest in research and innovation and scientific activities. if we want to create high quality jobs and improve the quality of life, we need to develop innovative goods and services that will enhance the needs of our society. from an irish perspective, organisations under fp7 during the period 2007 to 2013 have drawn eur 572 million. these monies have gone towards research, science and innovative activities in a number of different policy areas, including the fields of information and communication technologies and marine, agriculture, health, energy, food and environmental services. in fact, irish small and medium-sized enterprises have drawn eur 116 million under existing fp7 programmes. that augurs well for the future of smes in my country under horizon 2002.
mr president, i have to admit that i am a little confused. it is only a few hours since all the meps in this chamber were cheering and clapping when malala yousafzai said that a powerful country should not be judged on counting its soldiers and its navy. but here we have more reports and more speeches aimed at driving forward the militarisation of europe and ensuring that the european armaments industry gets a christmas present at the eu summit in december. these reports demand more military integration, more military ventures and more military funding, and this is only part of the process of the further militarisation of europe. just yesterday, at the european defence agency meeting, seven eu countries formed a new drone club to develop a eurodrone. it really says something that, at this time of austerity for millions across europe, the priority is to invest to find better ways of killing people. the irish socialist, james connolly, at the start of the first world war, put it very well, and very aptly for this debate: ‘war is a relic of barbarism only possible because we are governed by a ruling class with barbaric ideas.’ the working class of all countries cannot hope to escape the horrors of war until, in all countries, the barbarous ruling class is thrown from power.
when i was a youth, i had visions of joining the army and becoming a great military leader like napoleon, but i was dissuaded from following that career, so when i think of defence now it is more in terms of sporting terminology. in football they say that attack is the best form of defence. i am not suggesting that we in europe should go on the attack against our neighbours, but we are living in an imperfect world and always will be, so a certain amount of defensive might is necessary. i do think it important though that this should be done with diplomatic oversight, and for member states’ views to be respected. i come from a country that has been politically neutral since it was founded and, while we have an army, that neutrality has helped us to send many peace-keeping missions to hotspots around the world very effectively. we might not have been able to do that so well if we had been militarily aligned, so respect for each country’s position also has to be guaranteed.
it is good to see you back in the chair, mr karas. it is a cliché to speak about lies, damned lies and statistics, but there is a certain truth in it, because quite often people can use statistics selectively, to back up their own views, rather than basing their views on the statistics. as my colleague mrs gáll-pelcz mentioned, statistics that are sound and reliable and based on fact are the most important thing. i have seen great use being made of statistics, especially in sport where it has transformed tactics. players who might have been seen to have had a good game may, when one looks at their statistics, in fact have had a bad game and vice versa. we need the same reliability regarding statistics in policy-making in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to congratulate the rapporteur. she really believed in this programme and made every effort to find solutions that were effective, efficient and workable. i have to say that i am disappointed that the fund itself is less than was originally planned, because all three sub-programmes need to be resourced. in particular i support the microfinance facility, which will provide microcredits of up to eur 25 000 for unemployed people or those who are at risk of losing their jobs, as well as persons from disadvantaged groups that experience difficulty in accessing credit. these loans, guarantees, equity or quasi-equity will assist entrepreneurs – particularly young entrepreneurs – in setting up micro-enterprises. since 2010 more than 6 000 entrepreneurs have already benefited from loans worth approximately eur 50 million under the progress microfinance facility. i fully support that programme. i was involved at that time in the trialogues, and i was very pleased to once again represent my group in this particular programme. ireland – my own country – has access to the microfinance facility and is one of 15 countries to do so. access to finance is a major problem for young people – in particular, disadvantaged young people – who are trying to set up their own business. banks are not willing to share risk with entrepreneurs and, while this fund will not bridge that gap, nonetheless it will help to facilitate self-employment and entrepreneurship among groups who typically will have greater difficulty in accessing credit. i know that irish entrepreneurs will welcome this fund, and indeed i hope that all member states will access it. i am also pleased to see that eures is a target for mobility and that member states will try to ensure a one-stop shop approach. mobility must, of course, be voluntary, and i am pleased that the commission and member states will monitor mobility flows and patterns in order to detect and prevent negative effects.
mr president, i too want to add my congratulations to the rapporteur. this new employment and social innovation (easi) programme brings together and builds upon three existing programmes: progress, which will support public authorities, civil society and the social partners in promoting employment, social inclusion and equal opportunities; the microfinance facility, which is an important tool for providing loans of up to eur 25 000 to help business start-ups, for example through microfinance ireland over the past couple of years; and the european employment services (eures) system, which will connect job seekers and employers more effectively. there were 1.9 million jobs on the eures portal this afternoon and, while i am extremely concerned about massive levels of emigration from my own country, ireland, i think it is important that when young people wish to travel to gain experience in another country they have access to good information and good-quality jobs. eures makes an important contribution to this. i specifically want to congratulate the rapporteur on her achievements. i welcome the fact that 20% of the eur 500 million allocated to the progress component must be used to support youth employment. the decision to enable social enterprises to access the microfinance facility for the first time is also very welcome. easi provides a tool for supporting jobs and inclusive social policies.
mr president, ireland is about to regain its economic sovereignty on 15 december when it exits the troika programme. while ireland’s participation in the programme is considered to be a success in some circles, there is no doubt that irish people have had to make enormous sacrifices. true, the euro has survived, but at what social cost in ireland? i want the euro to work. i want ireland to remain part of it, but we do need to fix its basic design flaws by strengthening the social dimension. we need a single currency for europe’s citizens, not just for its central bankers. i was disappointed that the commission was not more ambitious with its communication on the social dimension to emu, and i want to ask you, commissioner, how will the scoreboard truly capture the deepening social challenges that are facing member states? how, for example, will it assess the worst forms of poverty, such as homelessness? how can we accurately assess social imbalances given the absence of a european consensus on minimum social protection? how will the commission address this lacuna? will the commission acknowledge that the scoreboard needs to be complemented with a mechanism triggering preventive and corrective action that will promote upward social convergence and social progress? can we achieve genuine emu without such a mechanism?
this is an extremely important debate, because we are talking about life. in many ways it is a good name, because we could be talking about life or death in terms of the way we treat our environment, in particular, and especially how we adapt to the changes in the climate. so we are talking here about a project which has been on-going for twenty years and which, by and large, has been extremely successful. i welcome its continuation into the future. there are aspects which people would be concerned about, and one is the very small budget for it: 0.3% of the budget is a little low for something which can have such a great impact on the environment and indeed on the quality of people’s lives. one thing that does intrigue me relates to the figures here in the notes on the success of natura 2000 in general. it speaks about generating eur 200 to 300 billion, and there is a big difference between eur 200 and eur 300. then it talks about generating 4.5 to 8 million jobs. now again there is a huge difference between 4.5 and 8 million jobs, so we would need more accurate figures in that regard. however, i do support the proposals made by the rapporteur, especially in relation to integrated projects, as well as to giving workshops and help to new applicants based on the experience of successful projects. that is a very good idea which should probably be implemented on a wider scale regarding european projects. finally, i just want to say in relation to ireland that there is an issue relating to bogs.... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i just want to say that this is an example – and the rapporteur deserves great praise for it – of the principle that small is beautiful. if we look after the small things, then we will get big results. the budget is not enormous and i know, commissioner, you would like to have the budget that agriculture has. could i say though, and i listened to ms kadenbach’s comments, that i think we face a problem in the future? we have policies on the environment and on agriculture that need to be better coordinated because we need farmers to live and farm in rural areas and to manage the landscape. i have said to you, commissioner, that if we were to remove farmers and to put in a civil service structure, it would cost us so much that we could not afford it, so we need to be rather more united and to think more deeply about how to integrate these policies better without antagonising those who strive to make a living from the land. however, i fully support this programme and it brings great value, particularly in my own country of ireland. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).)
blue-card answer. – i think you make an important point. i can fully justify our group’s position. if you listened carefully to my speech, i do not think you would find that there is much in it that divides the agriculture view and the environment view but i do think there is not enough understanding of the situation of incomes on farms and the need to work with farmers rather than to force them in a particular direction. i would suggest, when the dust settles on cap reform and on our big budget debate, that those of us who have a common interest might think more strategically about how we get the desired results. farmers want to – and do – protect nature, but they need to be helped and supported to do it. they do not need ngos and others accusing them of doing things which they do not do. they need help. so i think there is more that unites us than divides us.
mr president, at the end of the last debate you yourself made a biblical reference to people staying awake. the bible also refers to tax collectors and they were no more popular then than they are now, but nevertheless taxation is something that is necessary for member states to exist and provide services. that is why i welcome the commissioner’s and the rapporteur’s comments this morning and especially the proposals that we try and reduce fiscal fraud, tax fraud and tax avoidance, especially not allowing people to use the advantages of the single market to avoid paying taxes. that is something i welcome. the other point i would like to make is that member states can set their own tax levels, and we guard that jealously in ireland particularly in relation to our corporation tax and would like it if there were less comments regarding that from more powerful entities.
mr president, i think we should accentuate the positive here because a great deal of the money, in fact the vast majority of the money spent, is being spent for the purpose to which it is allocated. of course, the auditors are pointing out problems and it is the auditors’ job to do that. in my view, in relation to agriculture, we are going to see an increase in the error rates with the new cap because we have added some environmental measures, which will cause some difficulty in terms of controls. however, there is a difference between error and fraud, and the reports are being used to suggest that everything is fraud when it is not. we need to be very clear on that. i want to raise a separate issue because i know that some 19 500 irish farmers have received letters about the eligibility of land which they have made claims on, and they have claimed in good faith, based on maps of the past. our technology is improving and we are seeing things differently and measuring differently. there is a serious mental health issue on farms in the european union because of the pressure farmers are under, not just income-wise but because of the fear of the auditors. mr caldeira, i have written to you about this. i am glad you are taking it into account in your training programmes. there are colleagues in this chamber who share my concerns. we need to be thinking about more than just money. human beings matter, too. let us take that into account when auditing.
the president, was atthas or support to give the report to the august gan dabht ar bith the recommendation of the bhean riera madurell as ucht an dea-obaj done. on my part and as a member of the epp group, i myself, without the finne gael party, would have voted against block 2 but this block has now taken over block 1. we're going to vote against it because we have ethical concerns about the research that's going on in the suthanna; that's important to us. we also know that there are different views in other countries and that therefore the principle of co-development should be respected in those countries.
in writing. − the horizon 2020 programme offers a wonderful opportunity to build on the success of the previous framework programme 7, and the increased funding will enable many more people to participate. the inclusion of specific targets for funding towards small and medium-sized enterprises will further unleash the innovation potential within the sector as well as creating new employment growth and economic activity. in ireland over the last number of years many small start-ups as well as universities have benefitted greatly from these funds and i know that there is a great desire amongst these sectors to fully utilise the new opportunities. i hope that governments will ensure that application processes will not be overly cumbersome, and in particular that special emphasis will be given to attracting young people into science as well as linking those innovators with industry to realise the full potential of their creativity.
in writing. − i strongly support horizon 2020 as it will allow for continued investment in research, innovation and scientific activities. this will have a positive impact on enhancing the needs of our society with the development of innovative goods and services. under fp7 (the current research instrument), ireland has benefited considerably, drawing down eur 572 million in funding in the period 2007 to 2013. these monies have supported research, scientific and innovative activities in a range of areas including information, communications and technologies, agriculture and environmental services. smes in ireland have also benefited, drawing down eur 116 million under the existing fp7 programme.
the president, was eager to support the report and said that he had made a choice without doing the work that so many people, especially the twelve, had to do; and now he is doing it on the line. i'm not sure, but there are rules. the rules are now clearer and more transparent, so it will probably be simpler for new bodies, especially smes, to use their money for the benefit of citizens. ba thrua nach bhfuaireamar 3% den gdp mar is leagtha amach i straitéis 2020, ach bíodh sin mar is caithfimid cur its laws an amount atá againn agus an úsáid is fearr a bhaint as. it is now in our rules that the bodies can start to work on the rebuilding.
the president, who had supported the report, was also pleased to see that it had been adopted by 523 votes to 597 with one abstention. innovation and technology are key to the development of europe and particularly to creating the new jobs which we so badly need to get us out of the crisis and particularly to dealing with all the unemployment we have, especially in relation to young people. i think having an agenda at european level, and an institute at european level that can drive that, is absolutely vitally important. i hosted a conference in parliament last year about this and we have put that on the agenda, which will also help to ensure that better use is made of these funds in the future.
the president, who had supported the report, was also in favour of the report, but voted 554 to 599 in favour of the report. it is also said that there are an equal number of smes and small and medium-sized companies in the eu and that there are people who are unemployed, and that there is a need to have all of them in the eu. the commission has also proposed that the new rules on the establishment of smes and the new rules on the establishment of companies be amended. in this context, i would like to thank the new bodies, the new smes, and i hope that we will be able to continue to support the people who have been helped by this programme.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the new competitiveness of enterprises and smes (cosme) programme, agreed with the irish presidency last june. the 21 million smes in europe, including the 230 000 in ireland, account for 98% of all firms and over 100 million jobs. this sector has suffered disproportionately in the economic crisis – the number of jobs lost in smes is more than twice the numbers lost in larger firms. smes have proved their worth in the past – 85% of the jobs created in europe between 2002 and 2010 were in smes – and they can do so again. the new eur 2.3 billion cosme programme will seek to tackle the problem of access to finance, including through the provision of a loan guarantee facility of up to eur 150 000 for over 330 000 smes across europe over the coming years, including thousands in ireland. it will also seek to improve access to markets for smes throughout the eu, and beyond, as well supporting entrepreneurs and the establishment and growth of new businesses. smes are the backbone of our economies and there will be no economic recovery without successful smes. cosme support must now be available to smes as quickly as possible from early 2014.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the competitiveness of enterprises and smes programme as it will improve access to finance and markets for smes, support entrepreneurs and create more favourable conditions for business creation and growth. the programme has a budget of eur 2.03 billion, enabling it to support all kinds of smes. cosme will also help to ensure that bureaucracy is lessened on a national level, allowing smes more access to markets, which will prove favourable for enterprises in ireland.
in writing. − i voted fully in favour of this report as it combines cosme together with horizon 2020 to replace the current cip programmes. this is much more effective. cosme will support all smes whereas horizon 2020 will focus on company foundations and start-ups, cosme is concentrating on growth. the financial envelope proposed by the commission for cosme is eur 2.3bn, which is great news for entrepreneurs and smes as well as entrepreneurship and sme-related activities.
the president is very important and we are here in parliament to discuss this issue. that atha's orm gur took the laws into his own hands today. the most important statistic of every sex and especially of sports is the number of sports; the most important statistic is the number of people who play. i'm gonna have to be careful and be afraid of them. tabharfaidh mé sampla de cheann nach bhfuil rómhaith: this morning we were discussing the life programme, and in the report there was a statement that the work of natura 2000 was estimated to be worth eur 200 billion to eur 300 billion to the european economy and represented 4.5 million to 8 million jobs. well, there's a big difference between 200 billion euros and 300 billion euros, and between 4.5 million and 8 million jobs, so accuracy is the key.
in writing. − i supported this proposal which aims to strengthen european statistics in the wake of the economic crisis; it also aims to strengthen the role of the national statistical institutes. however, it is important that while accommodating the needs of each member state in allowing them the opportunity to strengthen their systems we do not inhibit the production of european statistics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it represents a significant improvement on easi. further clarity is brought to contested definitions (such as social enterprise), financial transparency is improved upon, and a cross-border, common governance framework is developed to better implement, monitor and evaluate easi programmes across europe.
the uachtaráin, was atthas orm support to thabhairt don chlár se agus vótail do na multaí go léir a bhí romhainn. glacadh leis le móramh an-mhór: 568 i bhfabhar as 609; agus is maith sin. the first of these is the glacadh law. we had a good debate on this topic this morning. this is a very good programme that has brought a lot of benefits over the last 20 years and will continue to do so in the future. some of the recommendations made by parliament will strengthen it in particular the emphasis on the environment and action to mitigate climate change, concentrating on areas such as water, air and soil in particular. that's something that the vast majority of citizens would like to be part of and cooperate with. so we have to take a bottom-up approach to get buying at the local level so that all these programs will be far more effective and beneficial in the future.
in writing. − life is one of the smaller eu programmes, accounting for less than 0.3% of the total eu budget, but it is one of the most successful ones and will continue to be the only eu programme exclusively dedicated to supporting environmental and climate change projects. since the first life programme began in 1992, a total of 54 projects have been financed in ireland, 38 focusing on environmental innovation and 16 on nature conservation, with a total investment of eur 110 million, of which nearly half came from the eu. the agreed budget of eur 3.1 billion for the 2014-20 programme is less than i would have liked but is approximately eur 900 million more than the current programme. i do welcome the emphasis on climate action and resource efficiency in the new programme. the introduction of new ‘integrated projects’ using funding from more than one eu programme or other funding (either national, regional or private sector) to tackle water, waste, air quality and nature protection will also require a change in approach from national authorities and ngos who have taken part in life projects in the past and are considering doing so again.
the president, i would like you to thank the members of the house for giving me a chance today to vote on the laws. you were faired to every man and every boy, and you were allowed to speak to him when you really had no permission. the report was supported by the european parliament, especially as it was able to end the fraudulent use of information and to end the use of the bodies and bodies and bodies and bodies without having to be paid. is that possible? they should not have the opportunity to use the single market to sell their goods or services to the public. therefore, i join laws in many things with those in the world, and especially i hope that there will be justice in the faith of all people in the world to come.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as this customs 2020 proposal calls for action by the european union with regard to customs cooperation and the eu customs union. the percentile breakdown of the budget of eur 548 080 000 was negotiated and agreed upon with slight reformulations on the specific and operational objectives.
mr president, i am back again – just briefly – to state that in relation to defence there are different views, and maybe the necessity to have a european-wide approach. it is very important for my country, as we have been neutral since the foundation of the state, that this neutrality would be recognised and respected and that there would be no effort to coerce us to be part of anything greater. neutrality has served us well, particularly in relation to being able to send peace missions, through our defence forces, across the world, where they have had great acceptability because we were a neutral country. that point should not be lost. having said that, we recognise the subsidiarity rules. every country is entitled to do what it likes and, if they want to cooperate and coordinate, that is fine as well. but our position is that we are neutral and we want to remain so.
in writing. − we support ireland’s involvement in the common security and defence policy as decision-making with military implications is decided by the principle of unanimity. in a protocol attached to the lisbon treaty, it clearly states that the lisbon treaty does not affect or prejudice ireland’s traditional policy of military neutrality. furthermore, the triple lock requires that any overseas armed deployment of the irish defence forces of more than 12 soldiers must have un authorisation, formal approval of the irish government and be endorsed by the dáil. we could not support the adoption of this report and voted against key elements as we believe it contains recommendations that are incompatible with ireland’s traditional policy of military neutrality. for example, paragraph 22 calls for the establishment of a permanent military operational headquarters. it must be noted that this report is an own-initiative procedure with no legal implications.
in writing. − ireland’s participation in the eu’s common security and defence policy is strictly in accordance with the eu treaties, including article 42(2) which provides that union policy in this area shall not prejudice the specific character of the security and defence policy of certain member states (i.e. irish neutrality) and in accordance with ireland’s ‘triple-lock’ under which members of the irish defence forces participate in international missions upon approval by the irish government, approval by the irish parliament and under a un mandate. i am committed to ensuring that the irish defence forces are appropriately equipped and staffed to meet our commitments to un and eu peacekeeping missions. i could not support the koppa report on implementation of the common security and defence policy however, as i believe some of its recommendations go beyond this framework.
mr president, very briefly, i want to state in relation to this report and the previous one that the same theory applies, but that my colleagues and i in the ppe group from ireland have abstained in many votes which our group had indicated we should support. we abstained because of neutrality concerns – nothing else. thank you for giving me the opportunity to say that, as i had told my colleagues that i would do so in an explanation of vote.
in writing. − we note that the european defence technological and industrial base plays a role in the common security and defence policy. nevertheless, in a protocol attached to the lisbon treaty, it clearly states that the lisbon treaty does not affect or prejudice ireland’s traditional policy of military neutrality. furthermore, the triple lock requires that any overseas armed deployment of the irish defence forces of more than 12 soldiers must have un authorisation, formal approval of the irish government and be endorsed by the dáil. we could not support the adoption of this report and voted against key elements as we believe it contains recommendations that are incompatible with ireland’s traditional policy of military neutrality. for example, paragraph 9 calls for greater coordination of defence budgets. it must be noted that this report is an own-initiative procedure with no legal implications.
in writing. − ireland’s participation in the eu’s common security and defence policy is strictly in accordance with the eu treaties, including article 42(2) which provides that union policy in this area shall not prejudice the specific character of the security and defence policy of certain member states (i.e. irish neutrality), and in accordance with ireland’s ‘triple-lock’ under which members of the irish defence forces participate in international missions upon approval by the irish government, approval by the irish parliament and under a un mandate. i am committed to ensuring that the irish defence forces are appropriately equipped and staffed to meet our commitments to un and eu peacekeeping missions. i could not support the gahler report on european defence technological and industrial base, as i believe some of its recommendations go beyond this framework.
the uachtaráin, is tír bheag shaibhir is qatar le dáonra 2 million duine agus tagann timpeall 88% of na hoibrithe an countries iasachta, ach is léir nach bhfuil siad ag fáil cothrom na féinne agus nach bhfuil gnáthconditions internacionales doibrithe ar ar ar ar ar ar an ach oiread. the uachtaráin, is tír bheag shaibhir is qatar le dáonra 2 million duine agus tagann timpeall 88% of na hoibrithe an countries iasachta, ach is léir nach bhfuil siad ag fáil cothrom na féinne agus agus nach bhfuil gnáthconditions internacionales doibrithe ar ar ar ar ar an ach oiread. the situation is much worse, but qatar is now having a corn pollen harvest in 2022. i'm going to go to work for a million years, and i'm going to be a million years without a job. no reason to go to the lottery. i would like to focus on one recommendation that i have made to the commission: that the international electoral board should be allowed to make recommendations on the basis of the results of the elections. if it happens, they'll probably go to the fair in the fairer part of the world than they are now.
mr president, this is of great importance to me – and to my country indeed – because one of those executed on 16 april 2009 was a constituent of mine, a young man called michael dwyer from tipperary, accused, like the others, of being involved in a terrorist plot – which was never proven of course. there are a number of anomalies that have occurred since which need investigating. one: the bolivian authorities claimed that he was shot six times in the chest whereas the irish state pathologist established that he was shot once by somebody standing over him, in the heart. secondly, the two survivors, mr tóásó and mr tadić, said that he actually survived the raid in the hotel and was summarily executed subsequently in santa cruz airport. that is why the irish authorities and particularly, mr gilmore, the tánaiste, and the eu have asked for an independent, international investigation – which is the least we can have – and also, of course, for a fair trial for the two men. we should demand it because we have the power and the wherewithal to do so.
in writing.. – the detention of előd tóásó and mario tadić by the bolivian authorities must be treated as an issue of serious concern for the eu. since 2009, tóásó and tadić have remained in custody without trial in bolivia, and to this day much of the information regarding the circumstances of their detention has yet to be made known. on the same day, and on the scene where előd tóásó and mario tadić were taken into custody, irish man michael dwyer was killed by bolivian police special forces. in the case of michael dwyer, there has been no comprehensive investigation into his killing and no comprehensive police reports have been made available to his family or external authorities. it still remains unclear who killed michael dwyer and who provided the authorisation for his killing. along with the other 12 irish meps, i have sent letters to high representative ashton and tánaiste gilmore asking both of them to bring additional pressure to bear on the bolivian authorities to demonstrate their commitment to due process and justice, and to produce full information into the circumstances of the killing of michael dwyer and the detention of előd tóásó and mario tadić.
thar ceann an ghrúpa alde. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom uachtaránacht na héireann agus mo chomhghleacaithe ulrike rodust agus struan stevenson, an bheirt rapóirtéirí ar an tuarascáil, a mholadh as ucht an dá rialachán thábhachtacha seo. throughout the negotiations i endeavoured to enshrine the hague preference into the common fisheries policy. i was pleased to secure the support of parliament. however, despite the refusal of the council to properly consider that important proposal, i am pleased to have negotiated a strengthened recital whereby member states must take full account of the hague preferences when deciding on annual quotas. tá neart de na leasuithe tábhachtacha a mhol mé den chéad uair le linn na gcainteanna i bparlaimint na heorpa clúdaithe anois ag an gcomhbheartas iascaigh nua. ina measc sin tá aitheantas ar leith d’oileáin bheaga chósta a bhíonn ag brath ar chúrsaí iascaigh agus aitheantas freisin go mba cheart leanúint leis na limistéir atá íogair ó thaobh na bitheolaíochta de, ina mbeadh an bosca éireannach san áireamh. and despite legal constraints the new cfp includes greater regionalisation and bottom-up decision-making, particularly for technical and conservation measures. the attention will now quickly turn to the implementation of the policy, especially in relation to the discard ban. so the introduction of the discard ban will only work in practice if principles of avoidance and minimisation through more selective gear are followed. the conclusion that is also critical is that we should fully support the producer organisations, which i believe are the cornerstone of the new policy.
author. − mr president, in this contribution i will deal with the mackerel situation and i am extremely concerned – as indeed are many other members – about the actions of the commissioner and her determination to cut a deal with iceland and the faroes at any cost. the commissioner informed the committee on fisheries last week that any deal with iceland and the faroe islands would be better than no deal. i refer to last week’s meeting. normally i would not do so because it was in committee, but immediately after the meeting the commissioner issued her prepared script even though the meeting was in committee, so i feel i am quite free to speak about it. i want to remind you, commissioner, that you have a particular responsibility towards the european pelagic fleet and the coastal communities that depend so much on this important industry for employment. the bottom line is that no deal is better than a bad deal. a bad deal would tie the hands of this sector in europe for many, many years when you and i and many others are gone. i would like to remind the commissioner that both iceland and the faroe islands have increased their overall share of the catch from 5% in 2005 to 52% in 2013, and the commissioner wants to reward countries that are prepared to do that. they have set their own bilateral quotas outside the remit of the coastal states, which include the eu, norway, iceland, the faroe islands and greenland. it is very hard to understand how a commissioner can be prepared to reward the unsustainable actions of iceland and the faroe islands by fishing over what she describes as double-digit quotas and, in addition to these huge unilateral mackerel quotas that both parties have set for 2013, the faroe islands have this year withdrawn from the coastal states agreement on anglo-scandia herring. we know mackerel is a straddling stock in the territorial waters of the coastal states and, due to the large increase in mackerel stock, it has now expanded both within iceland and faroese waters. i accept this and i will deal with it, but ices, the international council for the exploration of the sea, has confirmed that the corresponding area for mackerel is off the southern and north-western coasts of my country, ireland. since 2010, the coastal states have met on at least 14 occasions in various parts of the world but to no avail. the most recent meeting took place in clonakilty, ireland. it is also important to note that in 2010 the eu and norway concluded a long-term agreement on mackerel management for the north-east atlantic and i also took the opportunity to discuss the ongoing situation when i met with the norwegian european affairs minister. i compliment norway on the stance which they have taken because, as it stands, we are relying on the norwegian authorities – on the norwegian minister – to defend the rights of the eu pelagic fleet. it is sad that i have to make that statement but it is a matter of fact. furthermore, and in direct response to the over-fishing of mackerel by iceland and the faroe islands, this parliament and the council fast-tracked a very weak document which came from the commission in relation to sanctions and i as rapporteur strengthened those trade sanctions. ninety-nine percent of the members of this house voted in favour of that over a year ago and the commissioner has said that it is important to have good relations between parliament and the council. but the commission has ignored the views of 99% of us – almost every member of this house. i have to say, commissioner, i welcome your initiative to implement the trade sanctions against the faroe islands in respect of anglo-scandia herring, but you cannot do the same in relation to mackerel. i would appreciate it if you could provide this information. i asked you a question last week and have not received an answer about the impact of this. you said the consequences were positive, but let us know what they are. will you say whether you will once again consider trade measures should the current negotiations fail to reach a satisfactory agreement? we all agree with the results of the latest scientific data: an increase in the stock of 64%, and of course we will have more details of this in march next year. commissioner, can you confirm that these offers of 12% or 11.9% have been made and that they do not have – despite what you say – the support of the entire council? indeed, when i met council members yesterday, they told me very clearly that they do not favour what you are doing. did you discuss this with norway prior to entering into this so-called offer? in conclusion, commissioner, you must think of the two-tier approach: when the fish are in norwegian, icelandic and faroese waters, they are entitled to it, and when they move out, they are not entitled to it. the two-tier approach is the answer and i believe we can resolve the problem if we adopt that approach.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr kriton arsenis, the rapporteur, for delivering the compromise package. but having listened to his contribution, i would have to ask the question: do we enter into negotiations for a compromise in all good faith? i am quite sure that mr arsenis himself will vote in favour of his compromises – otherwise he would have to withdraw his name from the report. we will have to wait and see, but it certainly undermines my confidence in negotiating in the event of a loss of faith. the commission’s decision – the commission has to take some responsibility – to publish the proposal even before the deepfishman project was finalised, resulted in a flawed recommendation. the committee on fisheries had two public meetings, numerous shadow meetings and bilaterals with the rapporteur. from my point of view, i was interested in the possible impact on ireland. they said that there were no implications whatsoever for ireland – until we had the presentation and we soon saw the effect that it would have. thankfully, looking after the interests of my own country, we have removed tusk, conger eel and ling from the list of species, which is of course a welcome development. look at article 6. we can all focus on the deep sea, but look at article 6, which outlines specific rules on the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems and that is, of course, vitally important. but let the commissioner and others be very honest with us and tell us about these great fishery longlines, about the implications for sharks, which are the endangered species. and nobody is talking about the most endangered species of all, namely the fishermen of the future.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the members of parliament for their contributions. it seems that there are different opinions on this issue and it also seems that there are a lot of concerns about the future of the sector. i would repeat that the commission intends to defend its own proposal. this proposal was well balanced, with a transitional, phasing-out period. in any case, we are going to respect the vote of parliament tomorrow and i would like to underline that we are going to facilitate a dialogue between parliament, the council and the commission in order to find the best solution forward. i would also like to underline that the commission is going to exhaust all opportunities at the margins to facilitate the transitional period in order to help our fishermen and to avoid the situations already mentioned about jobs lost and so forth. we will await for your vote tomorrow and then i am going to work with you and the council in order to find the best solution.
in writing. – deep-sea bottom trawling involves dragging heavy metal equipment along the seabed at high speed. this practice destroys fragile eco-systems such as cold water corals and it takes many years for species to reproduce and recover. deep-sea fish have been over-exploited and deep-sea habitats have already been degraded by 30+ years of trawling. if passed, the ban would be the first of its kind, although it would build on existing prohibitions on trawling in shallower water. it could give the seas some breathing space and fish stocks a chance to recover. this is an archaic practice we need to stop and more needs to be done to protect the vulnerable habitats and species in our seas. parliament has been active in establishing a positive legacy for the oceans, given our recent votes regarding the fisheries sector, and we should not stop now. this vote is an opportunity to reverse much of the damage done to fisheries and deep-water trawling should be a practice of the past.
mr president, let me start by quoting malcolm x: ‘i believe in human beings, and that all human beings should be respected as such, regardless of their colour’. that is not one of malcolm x’s most radical quotes. however, despite the rhetoric of the establishment, it is clear that they – and some people in this chamber – struggle with that idea, especially when it comes to roma people. this crisis has seen an increase in racism and xenophobia against roma and other minorities as politicians attempt to scapegoat them to deflect attention away from their own austerity policies. last month a young roma girl in dublin was taken away from her parents by the police. why? because she was presumed to have been the victim of abduction simply on the basis of the colour of her hair. this racial profiling and state racism cannot be accepted. an independent inquiry is needed immediately. in france, when a roma child was taken from a school bus by police and deported, school students all over france marched in protest. they knew instinctively how to respond to blatant discrimination. we need more than resolutions. we need a struggle to root out a system that has racism at its core.
mr president, i speak this evening in support of my independent colleagues in dáil éireann and in support of irish citizens, with a special mention to ʻballyhea says no!ʼ tonight i ask the european central bank to allow the irish central bank to destroy right now 28 billion in sovereign bonds that were issued in lieu of the promissory note, and all interest payments on those bonds. the promissory note was an iou given by the irish people to bail out two insolvent banks in order to prevent contagion in the eu banking system. ireland put its finger in that particular dyke. last february the promissory note transferred back to the irish central bank and we in ireland are now paying capital and interest to our own central bank, and when it is all paid our central bank will simply burn that money. it will evaporate. the crisis has cost us 25% of our gdp and four and a half million people have borne 42% of the cost of the banking crisis. we need a deal.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom rud amháin a rá. tá amhras ar thioscail áirithe go gcailleoidh siad de bharr an chomhréitigh seo, go háirithe tionscal talmhaíochta agus dá bhrí sin, b’fhiú féachaint air tar éis cúpla bliain i dtaobh an bhfuil ag éirí leis de réir mar a cheapaimid agus mura bhfuil is féidir linn leasú a dhéanamh. is é sin an pointe is tábhachtaí. tá seans iontach anseo don aontas agus do cheanada maidir le jabanna agus fás agus mar sin de agus go háirithe trádáil eadrainn.
madam president, not very long ago we discussed south sudan in the urgency debate one thursday afternoon. we are discussing it again here tonight, which is indicative of the european union’s commitment – and the commitment of the european parliament in particular – to progress in matters in this fragile new state. that is the way it should be because we have a reputation – and rightly so – for being the biggest donor of humanitarian development aid in the world. obviously this is a country that needs a lot of help. it has a lot of potential but it does not have the wherewithal or the experience to develop its potential as of now, particularly in relation to its natural resources – oil, etc. it is fairly rich in those but it needs a proper infrastructure to be developed. it is important that our aid will go towards ensuring this is done because that will eventually lead them to be more independent and more viable. education is also very important for everybody in order to eliminate some of the bad customs they have had there, particularly in relation to their attitudes to women over many years.
madam president, space is, i suppose, a topic which fascinates many people but it does not lead them to pursue that fascination by being involved in the industry in any way, and indeed the industry is limited enough across europe. i think there are about 30 000 workers but at the same time it represents 6.5 billion for the economy. i think, as angelika niebler was pointing out, what a huge potential. but that potential particularly needs a lot of research and development and that takes financing. while we do have good programmes for many years now like copernicus and galileo i think that to realise the potential we need to invest more in it, particularly with the likes of india and china now powering ahead as well as, of course, the usa. the european union needs to be well ahead in that regard and well committed; particularly, we need an internal market for the whole space area and i think that is something we should be working very strongly to develop. there is a whole pile of industries which can come from the whole space sector. in my own constituency a company was founded a few years ago which is taking off rapidly. it is called treemetrics and uses satellite imagery to track and monitor forestry around the world in the greatest possible detail, right down to the last tree, which helps of course not only in just tracking the trees but with the size of the trees, their removal and if anyone interferes with them. i think investing in the space sector and particularly in industrial policy will pay huge dividends for us in the future and we have to go that way, as angelika niebler pointed out.
a uachtaráin, is maith go bhfuilimid ag díospóireacht an ábhair seo anocht mar i gcomparáid leis an ábhar a rabhthas ag caint faoi ó chianaibh, an tionscal spáis a bhfuil 35 000 duine fostaithe ann, tá 12 000 000 fostaithe – go díreach nó go hindíreach – sa tionscal gluaisteán san eoraip. tugann sé 4% de oti ach tá sé i bpráinn le blianta beaga anuas go háirithe de bharr an chúlaithe eacnamaíochta. anuraidh, díoladh 12 000 000 gluaisteán ach cúig bliana ó shin díoladh 17 000 000 gluaisteán. is laghdú 5 000 000 é sin agus dá bhrí is fiú go mbeadh plean gníomhartha againn agus fáiltím roimh an bplean seo agus tá súil agam go n-éireoidh leis. just one or two points: i welcome particularly our renewed emphasis on a manufacturing base for europe as opposed to services. and particularly where cars are concerned: energy-efficient and safe cars will give us an advantage if we concentrate on that as opposed to the rest of the world.
mr president, on the basis of rule 57(2), i would request that we do not take the vote on the legislative resolution and that instead it is referred back to committee and that, on the basis of the mandate of the votes in this plenary, we first engage in trilogue negotiations with the council and commission to try to have a first-reading agreement.
mr president, i rise really to help you in your task. colleagues, it is the back page, the last page of our voting list we are now voting on. i am not sure if everybody is clear on that.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the justice programme (2014-20). with a total budget of eur 377 million, the new programme will seek to facilitate and support judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, judicial training, and to promote access to justice for all. i very much welcome the fact that parliament succeeded in ensuring that the new programme will continue to ensure eu support to initiatives in the field of drugs policy. in this regard, the justice programme should seek to implement the eu drugs strategy (2013-20) adopted in december 2012, which seeks to reduce both drug demand and drug supply. this should be done in conjunction with the new health for growth programme, which will seek to reduce drug-related health damage, and anti-drugs initiatives supported by the internal security fund. the justice programme is a relatively small programme but it will benefit public authorities, local authorities and small ngos all across europe working on these issues. i would now urge the commission to issue calls for proposals as soon as possible in 2014.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the rights and citizenship programme (2014-2020) with a total budget of eur 439 million. the new programme succeeds and builds upon two current european programmes – the fundamental rights and citizenship programme and daphne iii, as well as the anti-discrimination and diversity and the gender equality chapters of the programme for employment and social solidarity (progress). this new programme gives europe the means to protect all of its citizens. it will be used to combat discrimination on all the grounds set out in article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights – sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, member of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation. i very much welcome the fact that parliament succeeded in referencing article 21 of the charter, as this is broader and more inclusive than the grounds for action set out in the anti-discrimination article of the treaties (article 19 tfeu). i appreciate that parliament and the council only reached final agreement quite late but i would urge the commission to issue calls for proposals as soon as possible in 2014.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, as indicated after extensive negotiation within the committee on fisheries, it constitutes a huge improvement on the previous protocol, economically, environmentally, and in terms of the moroccan fisheries sector.
in writing. − international labour organization (ilo) convention no 170 is an important legal instrument to prevent and to reduce chemically-induced illnesses in the workplace and to better protect the general public and the environment. it concerns the evaluation of chemicals in the workplace, the provision of information about chemicals from suppliers and to workers, and the establishment of appropriate preventative measures and protective programmes for workers. it has been in force since 1993 but so far it has been ratified by only 17 countries, including just five eu member states – germany, italy, poland, sweden and luxembourg. since parts of the convention come within the competences of the eu, as established by the treaties, the eu and the member states must cooperate in order to ratify this convention in full. i welcome parliament’s approval of the proposal that the council authorise member states to now ratify the convention, and i would urge all member states to do this without further delay. protecting the health and safety of workers is a core part of the decent work agenda.
in writing. − the estimated turnover generated by global small arms trafficking ranges between approximately eur 130 million and eur 250 million a year and there are more than 10 million illegal weapons in circulation in europe. one thousand people are the victims of homicide by firearms in europe each year, with ireland, after italy, having the highest number of such homicides per capita. on the basis of proposals put forward by the commission last october, the eu is now seeking to address issues such as the production, sale, possession, trade, storage and deactivation of firearms. in tandem with this work, the eu should conclude the anti-arms trafficking un firearms protocol, which supplements the un convention against transnational organized crime. the protocol sets out minimum standards for all participating states parties on issues such as the recording of imports, exports and in-transit movements of firearms, an international system for the marking of firearms, a harmonised licence system, and strengthened export control systems. eu member states, including ireland, which have yet to sign and ratify the un firearms protocol, should also now do so without delay.
in writing. − i welcomed the proposal to reintroduce the crisis mobilisation criterion in the egf regulation, for the period 2014-2020. the report recalls that the redundancies in the enterprise nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 of its suppliers and subcontractors involved in the mobile phone sector are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and a decrease in nokia’s market share for basic mobile phones and smartphones. i support this report which calls for all necessary efforts to be made, in order to accelerate the mobilisation of this instrument.
in writing. − i also support the mobilisation of the egf regarding first solar manufacturing. the report recalls that the redundancies in first solar manufacturing gmbh will lead to an immediate increase of the rate of unemployment by 4 percentage points, while the area concerned (land of brandenburg) is already suffering from an above-average rate of unemployment (11.3 %). i am fully behind the report which calls for all necessary efforts to be made, in order to accelerate the mobilisation of this instrument.
in writing. − i support this report to mobilise the egf, following a positive recommendation by the committee on employment and social affairs. the report recalls that the redundancies in the company vestas group, involved in wind turbine manufacturing, are linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. i am in favour of the report which calls for all necessary efforts to be made, in order to accelerate the mobilisation of this instrument.
mr president, this agreement comes alongside ceta, the free trade agreement between the eu and canada, which provides corporations with the possibility of suing governments for loss of profits. it coincides as well with a massive protest movement on the chalkidiki peninsula in greece against the gold mine operated by a subsidiary of the canadian mining company eldorado gold. the local population are up in arms against the irreparable environmental and health damage this threatens: water supplies could be poisoned with mercury, lead and arsenic, and forest land would need to be cleared. fifteen thousand people marched on the canadian consulate and were disgracefully and brutally repressed. if there was a change of government and the contract was cancelled, the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism would give eldorado gold the possibility to challenge the decision and to bypass the most basic elements of parliamentary democracy. the possibility of 2 000 jobs in the context of mass unemployment is being used to try to force through acceptance of this project. but people rightly do not accept this blackmail, and they have my solidarity and my support. on the basis of a socialist programme, and a break with the capitalist system of profit maximisation, greek society and the greek economy could be rebuilt sustainably.
the president, who voted on the report, was not present. in fact, ceta is the best and most effective deal the world has ever seen, and it will be without a doubt, on both sides, the best and most effective deal in the world, and trade will be cheaper in the future. i've had a lot of problems with that, but i was so happy to see you, and i'm so glad that you're here. it is a sign among certain industries, and i am sure that they will be subject to the laws by the ceta agreement especially an industrial agreement. august is even listening to the things you're reading today but things aren't as good as they used to be.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report supporting the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) as well as a broader strategic partnership agreement (spa) with canada, as this aims to strengthen the eu’s economic, political and cultural relations.
i was here to hear the report in the chamber for the first time since i sat in the chamber and spoke to fheisire about the report. i guess the rud stairiúil gur is sin. at the same time, it is likely that the spanish will be the first to use this technical material and that there may not be enough information to make it available to the public and that kay swinburne will have had the opportunity to do so. and i guess that's true, but there's a lot of things we can do in the bathroom that we should monitor. but you also have to look at the financial institutions and see how they monitor them. chabhródh is without a doubt the most economical.
in writing. − the regulation on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products is a central pillar of the common fisheries policy. the regulation covers several instruments including producer organisations, marketing standards, consumer information, competition rules and market intelligence. i was a shadow rapporteur on the cmo regulation on behalf of the alde group, and i would like to pay tribute to the irish presidency and parliamentʼs rapporteur struan stevenson from scotland for an excellent job.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the eu has put in place a specific access regime for fishing vessels engaged in deep-sea fisheries in the north-east atlantic. i support more restrictive measures to deep-sea fishing and after four years for the commission to conduct an impact assessment on the effectiveness of the measures to restore the stocks of the species listed in an annex.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it furthers europe’s 2020 objectives in terms of increasing the security of all eu citizens, through an enhanced resilience to natural and man-made disasters. it improves our prevention, preparedness, and response to disaster management.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i strongly agree that there need to be equal rights for both creditors and credit intermediaries in order to ensure a high degree of professionalism in the provision of mortgage credit. i think it is also very important that this report supports the consumer in that they have adequate reflection time before committing to a loan and that it promotes the education of consumers and ensures that assistance is available for vulnerable and less experienced consumers.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution as it represents a move towards adequately addressing supply and demand imbalances in the eu carbon market, via a temporary removal of emission certificates from the market.
in writing. − meps first called on the member states to combat discrimination against the roma in 1984. nearly 30 years later, the situation of the roma and especially roma women, is still unacceptable. most roma women live in extreme poverty and elderly women are the worst off. very few roma women work and if they do, they often face discrimination in the workplace. girls often do not attend school at all or if they do, they leave school early. i welcome the specific call to member states to prioritise measures to support the education of roma girls and to combat early school-leaving in their national roma inclusion strategies and i would urge the commission to assess this issue in detail in its assessment of the national strategies. i do acknowledge and welcome the council’s unanimous adoption on 9 december of the recommendation on roma integration put forward by the commission last june, the first ever eu legal instrument on roma inclusion. all member states must now follow through on this recommendation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it provides for the development of a competitive and sustainable automotive industry in europe. it helps to consolidate eu technological advantages in areas such as cleaner cars, eco-innovations and international standard setting.
mr president, over the past weeks meps have been bombarded with lobbying from an array of backward, anti-choice groups. a few weeks ago i received a leaflet with the headline ‘blitzkrieg against the culture of life’. this morning i got a letter which included a baby soother and a condom, implying that the report had something to do with forcing toddlers to use contraceptives. what is shocking is not that these reactionary right-wing groups exist, but that they won a victory today here in parliament with a vote against reproductive rights and a vote against sex education. we saw that the majority in this parliament still has one foot in the dark ages, including with the macho shouting down of ms estrela after the vote. but let me say this to the reactionary forces here and outside parliament. you might have won one vote today inside this parliament, but we will mobilise on the streets and win, through mass mobilisation, the right to sex education and the right to abortion.
in writing. − we voted in support of the alternative resolution which recognises that the formulation and implementation of policies on sexual and reproductive health and rights and on sexual education in schools is a competence of each eu member state. we fully support this position.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of parliament’s response to the commission’s report on the implementation, results and overall assessment of the 2011 european year of volunteering. there are over 100 million volunteers across europe and their work is essential for the promotion of solidarity, inclusion, and civic participation. i very much agree with the call for a european statute in order to help ensure that volunteering ngos are given proper legal and institutional recognition, and would urge the commission to respond positively to this recommendation as soon as possible. a european-wide framework for volunteering ngos would serve to strengthen volunteers’ rights, particularly vis-à-vis the eu, facilitate closer cooperation between volunteer ngos across europe and facilitate the recognition of volunteers’ time as eligible in-kind co-financing for eu grants. i would also urge the member states to include the work of volunteers when establishing national systems for the validation of non-formal and informal learning, in line with the december 2012 council recommendation on non-formal and informal learning, and through europass.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it will give volunteering a boost throughout the eu. under this report member states will have clear guidelines set out in the ilo manual on the measurement of volunteer work. this in turn will encourage other member states to follow suit so that a body of comparable data providing a clear picture of the valuable contribution such work makes to society may be compiled.
madam president, may i first of all thank thijs berman for his work on this as rapporteur over a long period of time. i know how difficult it was as i was the rapporteur for dci mark 1. we did not get delegated acts at a country level, but we did get them on a regional level and we did get 20% of the entire dci going to basic social services with a focus on health and education. i would like to put it on the record that i regret that those who have conscientious objections to the terms ‘and rights’ in relation to sexual and reproductive health and rights will not have a separate vote. regrettably that may make people vote against this. however, the important thing is that 23 000 children are dying every single day in the developing world. the good news is that it used to be 36 000. those 13 000 children per day are living because of efforts like this in the dci and we can bring that figure right down. i think this is a good day’s work in the efforts towards achieving that.
mr president, i think the european union has a reputation, rightly so, for being the biggest contributor to humanitarian development aid worldwide and indeed also to the promotion of human rights. in this sense we are probably in a better position to do it than anyone else, but sometimes, when we discuss urgency motions here on thursday afternoons, i am often surprised at the fact that we continue to give support, of one kind or another, to countries where human rights are grossly disrespected. i think we should be tougher with these countries, to make it clear that our aid is conditional on respect for human rights. sometimes i think we skip over that a little and certainly it is something we should demand, that countries should sign up to conventions and observe them, and especially so in relation to respect for women in many places of the world where it is far below any normal expectations.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, i thank you all very much for your comments. you have raised a number of issues and concerns which illustrate the importance that you attach to eu action on human rights. while i would have been delighted to have asked stavros to share his expertise with you directly, we are told that the internal rules of parliament do not allow for this. we have however taken a very careful note of parliamentʼs recommendations and will try to incorporate them into every eu policy strand. now let me comment on a couple of issues that you raised. first on iran: the deal the eu contributed to reaching with iran is a major step towards a more peaceful world and the nuclear negotiations did not prevent the eu from condemning the high number of executions carried out there. the eu has endeavoured to address both individual cases and general issues in its action, calling on iran to respect the international human rights obligations it has signed up to. certainly many of you mentioned the tragedies related to refugees, particularly the last, very tragic, event off the coast of lampedusa. let me just remind you that, as you know, the december european council discussed the report on the task force for the mediterranean set up after the recent tragedy off the coast of lampudusa and a set of concrete actions will be taken to face this huge problem. and last but not least, some words on russia. we fully share parliament’s concerns about worsening conditions for human rights defenders, independent journalists and civil society at large in russia. let me say that the vice-president of the commission/high representative issued a number of statements expressing our concerns with regard to these worrying developments. in addition to that we openly reiterate these concerns during our regular political dialogue. the regular human rights consultations – the last round of which took place on 28 november – allowed for frank and detailed discussions on these matters, in which we raised systematic issues and individual cases of concern as well as questions about particular individual cases referred to in parliamentʼs report. i would like particularly to mention that we continue to support ngos financially, notably through the eidhr instruments. and by way of concluding, let me simply say that with your support we will continue to reinforce our actions in this area in the future.
rapporteur. − mr president, i shall start off by thanking a number of people. first of all, i want to thank all my colleagues on the committee on employment and social affairs, the shadows and our chair, for their support and, indeed, for their ongoing commitment to this fund, and also from the opinion-giving committees. i secondly want to thank parliament itself for its numerous resolutions on maintaining the crisis derogation, and i am pleased to see that the crisis derogation is in the current instrument because a very significant number of applications came in under the crisis derogation. i also want to thank our commissioner, commissioner andor, and the commission for their ongoing support, along with that of the president of the commission, mr barroso, and mr van rompuy. i want to thank the lithuanian presidency. they are not here at the moment, but they certainly showed a willingness to do business and to get a fund in place that was fit for purpose. i also want to thank the irish presidency for their efforts to unblock the blocking minority in council, and they were ultimately successful. after all of those ‘thank yous’ we have a document here in place this evening and the question is: is it fit for purpose? the commission in its report tells us that the reintegration rate of european globalisation fund participants is 48%. it certainly varies between member states, but that is a good outcome. we also know that the personalised, tailor-made packages that target workers are effective, in that they reach the harder to reach workers; those, for example, who are older or those who have lower educational attainment. there were a number of criticisms of the current globalisation fund and i believe we have managed to deal with many of those issues. first of all, we have worked with the commission to improve the timeliness of the fund and we have a defined timeframe for submission and evaluation of projects now in place. we have broadened the category of workers who can apply to the fund. it now includes self-employed, temporary agency and fixed-term workers. we had wanted a differentiated co-financing rate, but we had to agree in the end to a single co-financing rate of 60% , but that is still 10% more than the original co-financing rate of 50%, because an issue for some member states was that the cofinancing rate was too low, so we have moved in the right direction. crucially we have capped the special time-limited allowance at 35%. these allowances included mobility allowance, systems and training allowance etc and some member states were spending up to 70-75% of their application on these measures. we did not believe this was a good use of european money and it certainly did not give european added value, so i am very pleased now that we have capped those allowances and that the majority of the money will go into training, up-skilling, entrepreneurship, etc. this was a red line for parliament and signalled by the court of auditors. we have also strengthened the partnership principle by ensuring that the package of personalised services is drawn up in consultation either with the redundant workers themselves or their representatives or the social partners, because we know that the objectives of the fund are much more likely to be achieved when this happens. we have also significantly broadened the eligible beneficiaries to include an equal number of neets – that is, those not in education, employment or training – to that of redundant workers for whom the application is made in the first place, provided that the application is in a region which is eligible for the youth employment initiative. egf support will therefore assist young unemployed as well as redundant workers. the fund was originally eur 3 billion. it is now just over a billion. it is a significant decrease and we have a possible doubling of the number of applicants. i sincerely hope the amount we have will be sufficient. we have a number of other improvements which i will outline in my final two minutes because i believe i am over time. my final question is: is it fit for purpose? all i can say is i hope that for those workers who will access this fund that it is.
madam president, i want to compliment the rapporteur on the work that she has done on this file. if we have learnt anything from the crisis it is that europe must stand by its workers, particularly our older workers who have been made redundant. we need to help them find their way back into quality employment or set up their own businesses. my own country, ireland, has implemented seven egf programmes since 2009, including one aimed at supporting 850 former sr technics workers in dublin and a national programme aimed at 6 000 construction workers. i know how valuable this fund is. as the rapporteur marian harkin has said, significant improvements have been made in the fund. i very much welcome the fact that the egf will once again be able to support job losses arising from the crisis, not just those caused by globalisation. i also welcome the increase in cofinancing from 50% to 60%; the extension to fixed-term, part-time and self-employed workers; and the reduction in red tape. but particularly important is the possibility that support can now be provided to young people not in employment, education or training, the so-called neets category. again i want to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for her hard work in bringing this to a successful conclusion.
i would first like to thank my colleague and friend, marian harkin, for her work, and indeed for the work she has done on this report. they are gaining on two levels: they have succeeded in keeping the system in place for the next financial period, when they realize that some of the member states have powers against them; they have leased the facilities to be used by them, especially in the soluble rules; and they have used the facilities in the longer term, including the facilities that people have not yet acquired for their own use. i've had to use this system four times and i thought to myself that if the last one was much better than the first one, it's because the last one was better than the first one for talk talk. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. there'll be no better case here than in the leasuithe chest.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank everyone for the very supportive voices towards the globalisation adjustment fund. indeed, the european commission is determined to make full use of this fund in the future for the benefit of the workers who need its support and to help the recovery of the european economy. indeed, the egf in the future will be smaller than what the commission originally proposed. i am glad that the proposed improvements are appreciated by the house, perhaps most importantly the possible improvement in terms of the speed of project evaluation, decision and disbursement. indeed, i appreciate that it is not only the commission but also the european parliament that has decided to shorten its approval procedures substantially. in reality, much faster decision-making would only be possible if the egf had its own envelope. as you know, it has been and it will continue to be an extra-budgetary fund. every single project will have to be an individual legal proposal and that requires a codecision by the parliament and the council. nevertheless, we believe it is possible to cut the time demand and this will be appreciated and it will be seen as more useful instrument. as you know, the egf is indeed a demand-driven fund. the finally agreed budget ceiling – while still very relevant – is nevertheless substantially lower than what the commission proposed. we also opened it up towards farmers, towards young people, while emphasising that this is not the main financial instrument for supporting either farmers or young unemployed people. nevertheless, this opening should be appreciated. i very much agree with those who stress the importance of prevention, meaning that other policies, such as macroeconomic or industrial policies, are very important in order to ensure that in the future fewer workers find themselves in a situation requiring intervention from the egf. that means that we have to do more in the future for good anticipation and management of change. this is why the commission will very soon come forward with a quality framework on restructuring. the key indeed is anticipation, but also constant investment in human capital that highlights the importance of the competitiveness of the workforce, employability, investment in skills and improving the performance of the education and training systems and their connection with companies in the real economy. this also highlights the importance of trade policies, an area in which of course there has to be a reflection of the social dimension of the european economy. let us hope that the economic situation in the european union will not require more than the funding which has now become available for the future egf and that it will be used by the eu institutions and the member states in the most effective way.
rapporteur. − madam president, i agree with the commissioner, who said it was a difficult path but it was certainly well worth taking. i look forward very much to the new proposal on good anticipation and management of change. just a few comments to sum up the comments that were made by my colleagues. first of all, in regard to agriculture: farmers as individuals can apply, but as a response to trade deals that disadvantage farmers this would be totally inadequate. i believe it might indeed have provided a fig leaf to the trade commissioner, if he was so inclined to do a poor deal for agriculture, but the fund itself would have been totally inadequate to respond to the needs of agriculture. i agree with ms bauer, i would have liked to see differentiated co-financing, and ms zuber mentioned this point as well. ms cornelissen talked about success stories with older workers and how the fund improved the prospects of workers with low educational attainment. mr clark, as well as mr kelly, spoke about the dell workers and indeed it is of interest to know that i consulted with the dell workers on a number of occasions, to try to improve the effectiveness of the functioning of this fund. mr clark spoke about companies closing, and indeed they do, for many reasons, but at least if it is for globalisation we have this fund to assist them. i disagree with what ms van der kammen said about the use of this fund; the fund only assists workers. it does not under any circumstances fund the responsibilities of member states or companies. mr mann spoke of the need to ensure that people have the appropriate skills and we have written into the legislation that the package of services should anticipate future labour market shortages and required skills. ms costello spoke about the fact that irish workers have benefited, as have workers in 20 member states, so that indicates the fund’s effectiveness and the need for it, finally, i agree with mr daerden; he said we ensured the survival of the fund, but only just. but it was worth doing, because it is a solidarity instrument. it delivers a strong message to european workers, along with tangible benefits, and that is worth doing.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this is an important report and i want to thank ms zuber for her work on this issue. for too long, domestic work has been undervalued and invisible, a little bit like the work of carers. i suppose it is mainly for historic reasons, because this work was carried out mainly by women and girls and in most cases behind the closed doors of private homes. more and more of this work is now being carried out by migrants, and of course those who have fewer opportunities, and many of these workers find themselves in very vulnerable positions. that is why this resolution is so important. we need to ensure that domestic workers have access to information on their conditions of employment and, where possible, a possible written contract. we need to ensure weekly rest periods. we do so for lorry drivers to ensure health and safety on our roads. we should do the same for domestic workers, to ensure their health and safety. ms zuber raises an important issue: that of trafficking. the full implementation of this convention would help to counteract the practice of modern-day slavery. it is also worth noting that opportunities in the care sector will increase in forthcoming years as the population ages and there is a greater need for personal care. finally, commissioner andor said that the implementation of this convention is in line with the eu commitment to decent work and it is in line with the eu commitment to combating trafficking. while it is up to member states to ratify, i believe a strong message from this parliament would help in that process.
madam president, i very much welcome this long awaited report on the ratification of ilo convention no 189 on domestic work. according to eurostat data there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the eu: 89% are women and over half are migrants. domestic work is socially and economically important but it is often precarious, undervalued and undeclared work. a survey carried out by the domestic workers action group in ireland in 2010 revealed a litany of abuses of domestic workers, including being paid below the minimum wage, being asked to work for long hours, being obliged work six to seven days per week, working without a written contract, non-receipt of payslips, and no prsi or tax paid. workers with permits were threatened by employers that their permits would be revoked and that they would be returned home. more worrying, the domestic workers action group report that 70% of people trafficked into ireland are for the domestic work market. yet domestic workers perform a very valuable social role as they can allow parents, mostly women, with the skills and qualifications needed for our economic recovery, to remain in or re-enter the workforce. looking after older people and caring for children is a vitally important job. if we want to achieve the employment potential of the domestic work sector then we have to transform precarious domestic jobs into decent sustainable jobs. convention no 189 covers areas such as the abolition of child labour, protection against harassment and abuse, the right to collective bargaining, the right to information and fair terms and conditions in relation to employment, regulation of working time, minimum pay, health and safety, social security, protection of migrant workers and, indeed, putting in place dispute resolutions and complaint mechanisms. the convention presents an opportunity to start transforming what is too often a relationship of exploitation into a legal relationship that supports decent work. i am calling on the member states to ratify the convention without delay; there can be no excuse for any further delay.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commission for their statements. i want to make two particular comments. perhaps the commissioner might elaborate, in his concluding remarks, on the food supply chain. i have taken a great interest in this. i am not entirely sure that cap reform will fundamentally change a key issue of concern that i have, and which is shared by others: an unfair food supply chain with a concentration of power at one end, in the retail sector, and a disparate number of producers at the other end. we have a voluntary code of conduct that has been agreed, and i compliment the commission on its work in this regard. i would like to ask the commissioner if there is any decision likely to be taken soon as to whether legislation may be needed to make certain the voluntary code of conduct. i would also say that, in the energy sector, where we want a market in energy, there are concerns in member states about proposals for export of energy – in my country specifically wind energy. this is causing concern among citizens, which may detract from our overall objective of a single market. i would like your response on the food supply chain.
mr president, i have already put on the record some of my thoughts on recovery and growth, but i would like to say a few words today about two issues: common defence policy and common defence, coming as i do from a militarily neutral country. first of all, can i say that i find it a little bit hard to take a lecture from a sinn féin mep on the use of military resources, because we have had to spend a lot of money on military resources in ireland – paid for by the taxpayer – counteracting military resources used by sinn féin-sponsored organisations – also paid for by the taxpayer, but not withdrawn through the tax system but withdrawn at the point of a gun from banks and the likes. secondly, the mayhem and mass destruction and falsehood that followed is the legacy of that organisation and they now want to re-write the history. thirdly, the irish economy is being turned around, despite having the sinn féin monkey of doom and gloom on our back constantly, and i think we need to pay credit to the irish government and people for the efforts they have made to turn around that economy. now, in relation to common defence policy, could i say that it seems to me that in times of austerity, if there were better coordination between the 28 member states, rather than 28 separate defence budgets on their own, we could actually save money and use that money to assist those who most need it in our economy? and on the issue of common defence, i think there does need to be solidarity. that solidarity needs to go both ways, but there are concerns about sovereignty and i think the way to deal with this is to say that for those neutral and non-aligned countries that want to sign up for a common eu defence, the article 5-type commitment of nato or the weu, which happens also to be article 5, will not be automatic. it will be a protocol. it will give those countries the option to opt in or opt out and in that way we would have the prospect of bringing about the best solidarity and common defence, which is a two-way thing. let us be very clear about this. some of our neutral member states have not provided for the defence of their countries and it is exacerbated by the current austerity ‘measures’, because defence spending has been cut. so we need to use the money we are spending much more effectively. that is what we are meant to do: defend the interests of our citizens and provide security. let us have this debate in a civilised way.
mr president, i thank the commission and the council for their statements in this debate. commissioner, you mentioned ireland and i thank you for acknowledging the resilience and the determination of the irish people. it is a very significant week in ireland. we will exit the bail-out programme. it has been a very tough three years but i do want to put on record that, despite some earlier comments by colleagues in this chamber, ireland is a positive news story. let me tell you some of the good news. growth has recovered. the economy is regaining competitiveness. exports are at an all-time high. we are creating jobs and confidence has improved. interest rates on our government bonds are now at affordable levels. there are some for whom economic recovery is not a good news story because they will gain politically from economic failure and that is a terrible thing to have to say in this chamber. let me praise the irish people but also say, we need continued eu support… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, george orwell gave the following definition of doublethink in 1984: ʻto tell deliberate lies while genuinely believing in them, to forget any facts that have become inconvenientʼ. there is no better description of the commissionʼs tale of the irish success story. let us look, for example, at the so-called return of sovereignty. the inconvenient facts there are all of the locks that will still exist on the neo-liberal straightjacket that constrains the people in ireland and across europe. we will have post-programme monitoring from the imf; we will have post-programme surveillance from the commission; we will have the excessive deficit procedure, the six-pack, the two-pack, the fiscal treaty. now you want more contracts for austerity. what is being created is permanent troika for all across europe. james connollyʼs writings on the struggle against british imperialism could equally apply today: ʻif you remove the english army tomorrow and hoist the green flag over dublin castle, unless you set about the organisation of the...ʼ (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i think we are approaching this summit in a much better place than at any time that i have been here over the last four and a half years. because, contrary to the prophets of doom, professor know-it-all economists, the euro has not collapsed and the european union has not fallen apart. instead we see the euro being secure and a return to growth, and that is something that is very welcome, and my own country is being seen as an example of success in that regard, thanks to the help we got from the european union and others. but i would say one thing. our debt is peaking at 124% of gdp, which is over twice what is recommended in the fiscal compact treaty and for that reason i think the application of retroactive measures in relation to our debt is very important. it was promised at the summit of 2012. if that is given to us, then we will not need a second bail-out and ireland will continue to grow and be an example of success at european level.
madam president, we know that there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the european union, of whom 89% are women and half are migrants. domestic work is one of the most unprotected and invisible forms of work, bearing in mind that it is isolated and individual by its nature. it is therefore often very difficult for domestic workers to obtain information about their rights, or to organise themselves in representative associations or unions which can enable them to move securely and to defend their labour and social rights. in a number of eu countries, domestic workers are frequently employed in precarious conditions. they are without a contract, their wages are paid late, they are required to work extra hours without due payment, their rights to leave and rest periods and paid public holidays are ignored and their social security contributions are unpaid. these are very serious issues. we need to examine them in greater detail, and for that reason i fully support this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it ensures that parliament supports the ilo’s 2011 convention, which acts as a further guarantee for the rights of domestic workers. it deserves our continued support.
madam president, i would like first of all to thank my neighbour elmar brok for the work he has done on this report. it is essential that we have a regulation establishing the common rules and procedures for the implementation of the union’s instruments for external action, which will serve as a horizontal framework in accordance with the objectives of the simplification agenda for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and by providing unified and harmonised rules for the following: firstly, eu geographic instruments, secondly; european neighbourhood instruments; thirdly, the instrument for pre-accession assistance and partnership; fourthly, the instrument for stability; fifthly, the european instrument for democratic and human rights. and last, but by no means least, the instrument for nuclear safety and cooperation and external action. i particularly welcome two aspects: first of all, the simplified rules and procedures for programming and the delivery of eu assistance; secondly, the framework for more cost-effective internal management leading to the reduction of administration burden – in other words, red tape.
madam president, it’s me again. i welcome this report and i commend the rapporteur. it is a report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and council establishing an instrument for stability and the reason i welcome it is that, first of all, its objectives are very good, very high-minded and very ambitious, but they are crucial. first of all: preserving peace. secondly: preventing conflicts. thirdly: strengthening international security and assisting populations, countries and regions confronting natural and man-made disasters. these are among the prime objectives of the union's external action. this updated instrument which we have adopted today for stability is absolutely crucial for international security and for that reason i highly commend the report to the house.
madam president, like the other speakers, i fully support this report and i commend the rapporteur, mr lópez-istúriz white. i think it is an excellent report. it depends how you look at it, but the regulation establishing the financial instrument for development cooperation, which is so important and which we take a lot of pride in, does not contain any explicit reference to the possibility of suspending assistance to third countries in cases where a beneficiary country fails to observe the basic human rights principles. if we are going to suspend aid, then it is basically up to us. it would have to involve this parliament. while this is all very well if you have evidence that there is an abuse of human rights, there is a downside to this. the downside is that, while the suspension of assistance is a very dramatic step and should not be undertaken lightly, any suspension of aid would most likely have the greatest impact on those who most need support and for whom the whole project is designed. so i think we should be very cautious in relation to what we do in terms of making any decision to suspend development aid. so thank you again, it is a good report, but be careful.
madam president, the european union election observation missions are important to union policy and to democracy in support for a general election. i realise that they come at a considerable cost: 25% of the democracy and human rights budget over the period 2014 to 2020. however, they are essential cogs in the fight for worldwide democracy. i have to say that i had the pleasure as a member of the irish parliament of overseeing as an observer the first free elections in thailand. it was wonderful how enthusiastic people were, queuing from five in the morning to cast their vote, and they were so proud of their participation in the electoral process. that is the reason why i think that we need – we need – this particular cog. it is vital that we participate in terms of increasing transparency and confidence in the electoral process and provide an informed assessment as to whether or not the elections have been conducted according to the norms and in terms of what we believe to be the free, open democratic process. so i think this is an excellent report and long may our participation in election monitoring missions continue.
in writing. − we abstained from the final vote on this legislative resolution because annex iv, part ii (a) referred to ‘promoting the full and effective implementation of the beijing platform for action and the programme of action of the international conference on population and development and the outcomes of their review conferences and in this context sexual and reproductive health and rights܀. the 1995 beijing platform for action supported and expanded the definitions of sexual and reproductive health and rights in the 1994 programme of action of the international conference on population and development in cairo, which could be interpreted as advocating particular policies on abortion. we are committed to the position that the european union does not possess competence with regard to the promotion of such policies. this was, overall, a good report. we regret that we could not support it due to the unnecessary inclusion of a reference to sexual and reproductive health and rights in annex iv.
madam president, i fully supported this report and i am very proud of the fact that it is my neighbouring colleague from ireland, marian harkin, who was the rapporteur for this. the egf is a hugely effective instrument in terms of economic policy to get people back to work and its budget has been cut back to eur 150 million per year between 2014 and 2020, which is regrettable. it is regrettable that the fund has not been brought back to its previous levels because we never needed the fund more. people were talking earlier about the older age category: people between 50 to 55 years of age losing their jobs. what about the people of 18, 19, 20 years of age who have come out of third-level education and cannot get jobs? that is why i think we need to target it for the younger generation. you have a problem, madam president, in italy; we have a major problem in ireland. i think it needs to be targeted and i think it needs to be monitored to see whether it is working. i think the potential of the fund is absolutely huge, but we need to monitor it and we need to do so on a regular basis, and if modifications or adjustments are needed, well then do so.
madam president, when workers such as those in dell, waterford crystal and talktalk were left on the scrapheap due to a crisis they did not cause, they were offered little except for the european globalisation adjustment fund. this fund has been mainly used as a painkiller for what is a cancer of mass unemployment. now the austerity hawks are not even happy to leave access to this painkiller untouched. although they failed to scrap the fund completely, it has suffered a massive 70% cut, lowering the budget from eur 500 million to 150 million. the scope of the fund has been widened so self-employed workers can apply as well. of course support for self-employed workers is welcome, but together with the cuts it will mean more workers competing for less money. lastly, no real steps have been made to raise the co-financing rate, which means that in a number of crisis countries governments would simply not apply for egf support. i therefore could not vote in favour of these attacks on the unemployed, who are the victims of this crisis.
in writing. − the european parliament insisted that the globalisation adjustment fund should be continued for the next seven years, despite opposition from the council of ministers. that said, i am disappointed by the decrease in the overall budget, from 3.5 billion to 1.05 billion. due to the european parliament, the new egf will also support new categories of workers in the event of them becoming redundant, such as those on fixed term contracts, temporary agency workers and the self-employed. this is a welcome development.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it secures the future of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which helps workers and young people find employment and acquire new skills in light of redundancies. it is necessary to properly manage world trade patterns.
madam president, i welcome this report and my commendations and gratitude go to the rapporteur, because in recent years the challenge caused by tax fraud and tax evasion has become a major focus of concern within the eu and indeed worldwide. member states have indicated a clear wish to go beyond the current levels of cooperation to improve the fight against tax fraud. however, as an irish member, it is important to note that from the point of view of taxation, as a nation we are not in favour of harmonised eu tax, but that is a separate issue. what has been said by ms šuica, and this is crucial, is that automatic exchange of information would be and is an important tool in fighting against tax fraud and evasion, because tax evasion knows no boundaries whatsoever. and i come from a country where it was uncovered that people in senior positions, from our prime minister down, were availing themselves of overseas tax accounts in places like the cayman islands – millions and millions in money sent overseas and out of bounds – which resulted in tribunals of inquiry being set up; and what these tribunals of inquiry discovered was not very pleasant, but at least we have now got to the bottom of it, and that is where international cooperation comes in. it is crucially important.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as this proposal for a regulation aims to replace national reporting and authorisation procedures relating to carriers of radioactive materials by a unique registration system. the implementation of the regulation should enable procedures to be simplified and administrative burden to be reduced, whilst maintaining a high level of radiation protection. this unique registration system for the practice of transport will therefore contribute to simplifying the procedure, reducing administrative burden and doing away with barriers to entry, while the high radiation protection levels reached will be maintained.
madam president, i resent the fact that paragraphs 116, 118 and 119 all reference reproductive rights. both i and my political group voted against these paragraphs, as it is clear that this is a matter for members’ subsidiarity. in our ever changing world, the eu must continue to develop flexible policy responses and to spread the founding values of the european union. the report reiterates the appreciation of the eu strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy as an important milestone in integrating and mainstreaming human rights across the eu’s external policies, and it underlines the need for a general consensus and enhanced coordination of the eu’s human rights policy between eu institutions and the member states. the report also notes the crucial importance of eu policy adequately addressing dynamic transition processes in third countries, and acknowledges the requirement for policy flexibility and it also encourages the development of policy tools which could be applied in different scenarios. so our aim must always be to promote human rights and democracy; that is what we are all about.
madam president, i was taken aback to see that, apart from in the annex, in this report there is no mention of the human rights situation in kazakhstan. that is despite the fact that, since the massacre two years ago in zhanaozen, there has been a systematic clampdown on basic democratic rights. many of those concerns – such as the crackdown on the media, arrests of opposition political activists and human rights offenders, as well as serious concerns about the right to a fair trial – were addressed by a resolution of this parliament in 2012. one of those arrested on trumped-up charges in 2012 was the human rights defender and lawyer, vadim kuramshin. he is an exceptional fighter for prisoners’ rights, engaged in fighting corruption and an outspoken opponent of the nazarbayev regime, whom i met personally when i was in kazakhstan. he was awarded the prestigious ludovic-trarieux prize in 2013. his appeal in kazakhstan’s highest court fell on deaf ears on 25 november 2013. that was a farce, but his case will now be taken to international bodies, such as the un human rights committee. the fight for justice and vadim’s release continues and i will be fully involved in it.
madam president, i agree with everything that has been said by the previous speaker. i think the report is very important. it is an annual report and it focuses on the contribution of competition policy to eliminating barriers, abuses of dominant positions, collusion agreements and distortion of state aid measures to the benefit of the single market. but it is a report and we need action, and that is the reason that i believe that our competition commissioner needs to get involved. for example, i see in my own country the abuse of the multinational supermarkets of their dominant market position in dealing with farmers. i also see my own country in the transport sector where the publicly owned, government-subsidised bus company abuses its position and small companies, private companies, are totally disadvantaged because they are not getting the subsidies. we have seen what has happened in the mobile phone sector, where there was a cartel operating. thankfully, as a result of the committee on petitions, of which ms mazzoni is the chairman, and the dogmatic approach taken by the commissioner, we now will have no more roaming charges as from april next year. so competition is the life of trade. it is crucially important. it is consumer-orientated, it is for the benefit of the consumer and that is why i welcome this report because what we need at the end of the day is action.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it provides a reasonable outline of the commissionʼs competition policy. it specifies how europe can deal with collusion, distortive state-aid, and work to lower trade barriers.
in writing. − although i voted in favour of this report as a whole, i did not vote in favour of amendment no 10.
in writing. − europe’s retail sector, including the 11 000 retailers in dublin, is of major economic importance and important in terms of social cohesion. retailers account for 11 % of the euʼs gdp and 15 % of all employment. the retail sector, especially small retailers, is a sector that has been very badly hit by the economic crisis and the decline in people’s spending power. i welcome the adoption of parliament’s response to the commission’s january 2013 communication ‘setting up a european retail action planʼ and i would urge the commission and the member states to now act on its principal recommendations. i would take issue with the suggestion in paragraph 16 that the services directive (directive 2006/123/ec) should be invoked to overrule urban planning laws. the services directive has no bearing on urban planning laws which are the responsibility of the member states, and in particular their regional and local authorities.
in writing. − i supported this report that proposes a european action plan for retail. i agree that to achieve a single market in retail, we need to address key obstacles such as the lack of competitiveness in the retail sector, and in particular need to lower barriers and reduce operational restrictions.
i would like to take a few minutes to address this subject, particularly those who have been living on the island for years. i am actually more pleased to have our support in the european parliament and in the european parliament as a whole in the resources we have to support us and i have made my own views on my choice of the right wing. we've been talking about this for a while now, and we're not going to talk about it for the next seven years. there is also energy that we can get under the ground in the gulf of mexico and there is also gas that we can get under the ground in the gulf of mexico and there are also gas that we can use to get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into the gulf of mexico and there are gas that we can get into. freisin, ta mianraí faoi bhun na bhfarraigí ar féidir linn úsáid a bhaint astu chomh maith agus má dhéanaimid is seo go ciallmhar agus mar a dúirt an coimisinéir trí phlean cinnte a bheith againn tabharfaidh sé sin gríosadh don invesíocht a bheidh ag tarlú agus teastáil mar sa tslí sin is féidir linn jabanna a chruthú agus fás agus forbairt a bheith againn san eoraip trí úsáid chiallmhar agus plean maith a bheith againn don fharraige. freisin, ta mianraí faoi bhun na bhfarraigí ar féidir linn úsáid a bhaint astu chomh maith agus má dhéanaimid is seo go ciallmhar agus mar a dúirt an coimisinéir trí phlean cinnte a bheith againn tabharfaidh sé sin gríosadh don invesíocht a bheidh ag tarlú agus teastáil mar sa tslí sin is féidir linn jabanna a chruthú agus fás agus forbairt a bheith againn san eoraip trí úsáid chiallmhar agus plean maith a bheith againn don fharraige. freisin, ta mianraí faoi bhun na bhfarraigí ar féidir linn úsáid astu chomh maith agus má dhéanaimid is seo go ciallmhar agus agus agus plean maith a bheith againn a dúirt an coimisin i would like to finish this law. i should also look at the example of the dutch people who are doing it in zion. if we do develop the right air in the calafoirt it will be important to use the same air as in the farraige.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, we have heard many times the mantra that this is an incentive-based system offering access to european markets in exchange for ratification and implementation of these 27 conventions. that only works if there is effective monitoring to ensure that there actually is implementation. that is the purpose of the question from the committee: to find out how that is going to happen. i have to say that i do not think that the commissioner has really answered that question yet because his basic answer was that what we have now on the scorecards is a starting point and it will be monitored from there. but if, at this starting point, we have scorecards that are full of lack of compliance with reporting requirements on multiple conventions, and if we have repeated references in the scorecards to serious abuses of human rights, of labour rights and so on, how is that a starting point? the regulation explicitly says in article 9 that a serious failure to effectively implement any of these conventions will be grounds for these countries not to access gsp+. so the commissioner has to define what is a serious failure to implement because otherwise on what basis is this a starting point? i think too that we need to hear more from the commission about how actually this process of monitoring is going to take place. the only country to have lost gsp+ is the extreme example of sri lanka in 2010, after the sri lankan government was guilty of murdering tens of thousands of tamil people in what was described as genocide. is that the only basis on which a country will be refused access to gsp+ or will be thrown out of gsp+? if that is the case, we have to redefine the word ‘incentive’. secondly, given that the scorecards are secret, that they are not public, how can this be a transparent process? how can you have an input from civil society in the gsp+ applicant countries? i think you need to have a public debate. finally, it is just intolerable – and a number of members have spoken about it – that the commission thinks it is an appropriate approach to come along with ten countries in one delegated act. it is simply fundamentally undemocratic and that is the purpose of it – to be undemocratic and to restrict the rights of this parliament to properly scrutinise what the commission is doing in terms of gsp+. i would like to hear a justification of it from the commission and i would like to see members across this house voting for the joint resolution from ourselves and the greens in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, first of all can i say that i join with those who raised concerns about smes. ninety per cent of all businesses are directly associated with smes and two thirds of all employment in the euro area, and the survey ʻaccess to financeʼ published by both the ecb and the commission, finds that 13% of sme loan applications were rejected in 2013, 16% of smes received less than they originally applied for and 7% of smes were too discouraged to even apply for a loan. so what can you do about that? let me suggest what you can do about that. make it a condition in ltro ii that the banks you are going to finance actually have bank managers. what got us into this mess is ticking automatic boxes. we need bank managers who look at your track record, your business model, your character and then take a calculated risk, not a gamble but a calculated risk, and i ask that that be made a condition. may i say this as well: what will history say of this era? they will say: gone are the times of the romanovs and the hohenzollerns and the ottomans and the habsburgs. gone are the times of stalin and hitler, gone is the berlin wall, and then they will say that, true, it was the worst crisis since the 1920s and 1930s – and we weathered it! why did we weather it? we weathered it because we had the institutions, we had the central bank and we had the commission and let us not forget that. in times gone by nationalism beggared our neighbours. why we have survived is, with all their imperfections, because of these institutions.
mr president, the smes are our biggest collective employers who create the bulk of value in our economy and they remain in extreme financial difficulties. it entails the loss of growth opportunities and is felt most acutely by the euro area countries that were the hardest hit by the crisis where our smes face much higher default risks and borrowing costs. the european central bank has been providing the euro area financial sector with unprecedented levels of assistance, as was seen with the emergency liquidity assistance channelled through the national central banks, and yet the financial sector, reprieved due to ecb and taxpayersʼ unconditional support, has failed to yield by way of growth and job creation. public purses, small businesses and homeowners have all been treated like delinquents by a sector they had to save from itself and they face stringent conditions to make ends meet. we need credit lines for our businesses. the ecb and the troika have shown very little appetite for forcing banks to pass on the liquidity they get at the cheapest rates from the european central bank. i would say to mr draghi: please extend a modicum of the decisiveness and generosity you have shown to others to our smes and provide direct credit lines to fund their potential and contribute to the real economy.
mr president, i think it is appropriate that we are discussing this straight after the discussion on the ecb. on one side, we have the ecb and the institutions doing their best to save the euro and promote growth and jobs in the economy – and thankfully that is successful now and hopefully will continue. but, on the other side of the coin, we have all this tax evasion, tax avoidance, counterfeited goods and contraband pulling the economy down – it has been said – to the tune of eur 1 trillion, or eur 2000 per citizen of the european union. this has to become a priority for us from now on. if i were president of the commission, in the next legislature i would appoint one commissioner whose responsibility it would be to deal with tax compliance and to set targets so that we could achieve these savings over a period of time, perhaps 20% by 2020 or more. that would save us eur 200 billion per year. we could do a great deal with that money. secondly, it is too easy for people to bring goods into the european union. in september in my own country eur 4.3 million worth of cigarettes were seized coming in from malaysia undeclared. this cost the irish economy eur 3.7 million in taxes. this is just one example. so we have to use technology to ensure that more and more containers are scanned. particularly given the development of the internet of things, this should be a priority for us so that we can make this a success into the future. there are also not strong enough sanctions for those who are found either to be defrauding the tax system, bringing in contraband or selling counterfeit goods. if there were sanctions, it might make people think a little bit more. certainly, this is an area which has to be a priority for us in the next legislature. let us set a target, let us have a commissioner, and let us deal with it. then we can bring down taxes for everybody else across the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as it builds on previous legislation adopted in july 2012, supports the recruitment of 12 additional judges to the european court of justice and clarifies the meritocratic selection criteria involved.
the president, who has been invited to debate the matter, will be voting on it, but of course, there are many here today. i think that the final vote will be taken at the end of the sitting and the council will then reach a decision at the first reading. there are many advantages to using these laws, especially for citizens of japan. i think we should be more careful about the chalafoirt, but we can't go in there until the fharraige agus is used to use the gach gné atá inti chun fuinneamh gaoithe, tonnta, taoide agus mar sin de a chur chun cinn. therefore, be glad that you are able to do all that you have been called to do.
in writing. − i am pleased to support the meissner report as i fully approve of measures to help realise the potential of our marine economy, so long as it is done in a sustainable manner. i believe that such measures must strike a balance between protecting our marine environment, its species and habitats and maximising the use of our marine resources as a source of economic growth. from an irish perspective, i believe that "harnessing our ocean wealth, an integrated marine plan for ireland" approved by the irish government in july 2012 to be a very good basis for achieving long term and sustainable growth. the government has set two targets in this plan, exceeding 6.4 billion euro a year in turnover from our maritime sectors by 2020 and doubling the contribution of blue growth to gdp to 2.4% a year by 2030.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it works to establish a necessary framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management with a degree of european harmonisation, but still leaves member states more flexibility to address their particular interests at a national, regional or local level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it ensures that the status of mayotte is amended efficiently in the eyes of the eu, ensuring that france has the requisite time, facilities, controls and obligations (particularly in the area of fisheries) for the proposed changes.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm voted le my group ins in the most go léir anseo agus ag an last vote to give course. the recommendation is very much due to the fact that people who are dealing with laws and chaste chastity are not in doubt and are showing that they are willing to stand the most in ukraine, but especially, they are not difficult to deal with; especially, the rud is that they have an attitude that is not really fair. at the end of the day, i don't think we can be free to go to the moon. i was in a hurry to speak to the people of ukraine, to ask them to help me, to ask them to help me, to ask them to help me.
mr president, i want to condemn the brutal state violence against peaceful protesters in kiev. i defend their right to protest and the demands for democratic reform and an improvement in living conditions, decent jobs and a real future. i have to point out the deep hypocrisy of the sudden conversion of catherine ashton and of us imperialism to the cause of peaceful protest and their criticism of their state repression. they managed to maintain complete silence when police were beating protesters off the streets from athens to madrid within the boundaries of the european union. the people of the ukraine have every right to speak out in favour of signing an association agreement with the eu if they wish, but i do want to send them a warning. just like the putin regime, the eu leaders do not have their interests at heart. they are interested in playing a power game with the people as pawns, trying to expand the interests and the influence of the eu – or russia. an independent movement of workers and young people is needed to put those interests first and to put forward a plan for a real transformation, real democratic and socialist change.
i was here this morning to debate and to listen to the legislation and to what was going on, especially with mr draghi. gan dabht ar bith, rinne se jab an-mhaith an lá a luaigh se go raibh se chun pé rud go bhfuil gá laws to do to do chun an euro to save. in fact, the euro has been saved by a series of laws and statutes; the shock of the market and the things that are going on are getting better by the day. i'm just saying to myself: at the end of next week we're going to be doing the same thing as the troika, but i think there's still work to be done here. at the same time, there is dul chun cinn to make us. there was one other thing that said to me this morning; he said, "i know, i know, i don't want to be in the same room as you and i'm not sure that we have the same money in the same room as you".
the president was free to attend the debate in the morning and to vote on the motion in the afternoon. i think that's the kind of goal we should have in the next parliament. the commissioner responsible for this matter was elected on wednesday morning, but we are facing a loss of €1 trillion per year in all three types of fraud and there is no law against it. so we should not focus on this issue here. if we had three straight goals by 2020, we would have decreased our income, and if we had no money, we would have gotten a lot more, and then we would have been much better off than our citizens in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution to fight against tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. this issue does indeed need to be on the european agenda and i agree that we need to establish a clear distinction between tax fraud and tax evasion on the one hand and tax avoidance on the other. i support the commission launching a study into possible indicators constituting the base for reduction of tax evasion and tax avoidance and to establish a standardised set of indicators for measuring tax evasion and tax avoidance.
mr president, there is obviously a certain amount of confusion here today because, as mr tannock pointed out, definitive evidence may not be available but anecdotal evidence would certainly suggest that something is amiss. for that reason, it is only right that we should discuss it to bring any malpractice to an end as soon as possible. there are 10 000 organ transplants per year and 165 organ transplant centres that say that they can get matching organs within two to four weeks, whereas in the rest of the world it takes years. so i think that it is only right that we should be concerned, especially as there is no organised or effective public organ donation system in china. given the fact that members or representatives of falun gong were here in the early morning giving out leaflets etc., i think it is only right that we should at least consider what they have to say and ask the chinese to try to bring clarity to this situation once and for all.
author. − mr president, let us not accept the line of the right wing in this parliament that wants to blame the tamil-speaking people around the world for the ongoing and very serious human rights abuses in sri lanka. it is correct that they are back at the centre of world attention. human rights groups were correct to raise concerns about the authority the commonwealth heads of government meeting would give to the rajapaksa regime, because government leaders – like cameron in britain – are ready to turn a blind eye to the human rights situation in order to defend and advance their own economic interests. it is more than four years since the end of a bloody and brutal civil war, it is more than four years since the genocidal slaughtering of up to 70 000 tamil-speaking people at the end of that war, and there has still been no credible, transparent and full investigation into the war crimes of the sri lankan government. impunity prevails, in particular when it comes to the government and military officials. the lessons learnt and reconciliation committee (llrc) is as much of a whitewash as the government could get away with, and even the limited recommendations of the llrc have still not been implemented. an independent, international inquiry is long overdue and should be set up as speedily as possible. it should be accountable to the victims and their families. the tamil-speaking community has already been failed by the un. it cannot rely on the so-called international community to bring peace or to bring justice. they need to continue to organise themselves in the struggle for justice in groups like tamil solidarity. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – i do not set myself out as an expert on sri lanka. of course, like yourself, i would have liked to have had the opportunity of visiting sri lanka but i was denied visas repeatedly by the sri lankan government because of my criticisms of the oppression of the tamils. i cannot give you precise figures in terms of the numbers of tamils and where they live. in the north and the north-east, obviously, but also yes, there are lots of tamils in colombo, but there they also suffer discrimination. the point that i have always made is that i stand for a united struggle of sinhala- and tamil-speaking people, to fight for justice in sri lanka. (interjection from mr deva)
blue-card question. – i noticed that mr deva drew a distinction between state violence and non-state violence. in his opinion, is it acceptable for the state to engage in the massacre of people? is it acceptable for the state to have forced disappearances of people? is it acceptable to have crackdowns on media just because it is the state? is there somehow less of a burden on the state when it engages in violence than when non-state actors engage in violence?
