mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the processes of restructuring to meet market trends and the changes in the organization of work in firms to increase competitiveness and productivity are entirely physiological phenomena. these processes can, however, take place in two distinct ways: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not only a matter of the social partners, but also of the member states. the right to information and the right to involve trade unions are the key to achieving consensus and avoiding conflict. where this path has been laid, positive conditions have been established. whereas where companies have claimed to be doing it themselves, conflict has so often been created that it has burned wealth and positive conditions. it is therefore up to you and the commission to accept the proposal put forward by mr cercas.
mr president, the case was not won in advance when alejandro cercas started this work. we know that there is a real weakness at european level when it comes to converging views on employment strategies. i thank mr cercas and all the fictional rapporteurs for having succeeded in bringing out a convergent vision. but this work has revealed important gaps around which we must all work together, the commission, the council and parliament. the first shortcoming is the absence of a solid european employment strategy, developed in a harmonized way between the various member states, to deal with the global crisis that is shaking us. the second weakness is a weakness characteristic of social dialogue. we know that no employment policy, no company policy can survive without the involvement of employees and without the development of social dialogue. finally, the third flaw. it's a lack of anticipation. we see that with the european social fund and the globalisation adjustment fund we have the levers, the fundamental tools, to work towards this anticipation in companies. training, anticipating needs in companies and training employees are the essential tools for implementing these restructurings in a positive way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the cost of the crisis must not fall on the workers. this calls for a new, more up-to-date and more effective proposal on consultation of workers in the event of restructuring. the aim is to manage these processes and transformations in an appropriate way, with the least possible social impact. the current legislation needs to be improved precisely to fill the gaps and distortions that exist. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in december we dealt with the terni steel centre of excellence, where a merger and restructuring is under way: the aim is to ensure continuity of the enterprise with the maximum information and participation of the workers.
member of the commission. − madam president, i think this has been a very important discussion on a subject which can be an emblematic initiative of this commission in this mandate. the irish presidency has just started and we learned last week in dublin that this is not only a priority for the minister ms burton in this season, but for the entire irish government. this is of fundamental importance because the council of employment ministers should conclude in february so that the implementation can start as soon as possible. we know the situation has been very serious but since i heard some points from ireland, but also from spain, which point the finger at the commission and eu policy on this matter, i would like to invite a more serious analysis. i am always open to discussion about the origins of this crisis but to say simply that it is because of eu policies is a bit harsh. a banking system built on sand in ireland is not the fault of the commission. the mindless property speculation which resulted in the bubble economy in spain is not the fault of the commission or any other eu institution. i know that the situation in spain is very serious. i was discussing this proposal with the youth council of spain the day before the commission made its proposal on 5 december 2012, and i will be back in that country this month. it has indeed been the country which has suffered the most from the point of view of youth unemployment, but also in terms of general unemployment during this crisis. i think this initiative on the youth guarantee demonstrates the european union at its best. it is about sharing best practices, it is about inviting the social partners into a very constructive cooperation and it is also about providing good substance to the european semester. indeed, we want to share the best practices which we have learnt from finland or austria – whose prime minister will speak here tomorrow and i very much hope that he will proudly mention the very low youth unemployment and the role the youth guarantee has played in that country. for sure, the youth guarantee is not a sufficient instrument on its own to fight youth unemployment; we also need other initiatives and we do have other initiatives: transferring the model of doer training, again from countries like austria or germany as mr mann certainly knows very well, improving the employment services’ functioning and capacity, not least to provide access to jobs in the same countries, but also in other european countries to help mobility to happen. this is another important area where we are working very hard and we are continuing this work in cooperation with members of this parliament. as ms hirsch pointed out, of course the youth guarantee is not exactly a job guarantee. it is not going to eliminate youth unemployment but it has the capacity to reduce youth unemployment very significantly. it will have to offer packages of jobs, training, further education, higher education opportunities and, even if what someone is actually offered is a training or learning opportunity, it must be a very useful one and it must add to the employability of the young unemployed person in the context of the given country or region. there have been many disussions in past years, including here in parliament, about flexicurity, when we experienced and witnessed the rise of flexibility and there was indeed a shortage of employment security. i believe this initiative is very much about security of employment for a generation whose situation is very difficult now and whose employment needs to be more secure in the future too. so this is not simply a response to the urgency of the situation, the current severe crisis, it is also a significant structural improvement in the functioning of the european labour market, in particular as concerns the school-to-work transition. funding, as we discussed in the introduction, is indeed key but the resources are there in the european social fund. they need to be prioritised. they need to be prioritised now and also for the long-term future. i could not agree more with what jutta steinruck said in the discussion. we have seen enough crocodile tears shed for the unemployed youth of europe. we definitely need clear contributions now on funding in regard to the current esf in this year but also to the european social fund for the long term in the next mmf, because that is going to be the key resource for supporting youth guarantee schemes. as regards the specific project ms costello asked about, we can clarify this in the coming weeks and i will be back twice in ireland in february to discuss it there, if necessary. i would like to thank you for all the discussions and support from parliament, not only today but in the last three years. indeed, from the very start of the europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiatives for youth unemployment, meps – from ms turunen to ms berès – have played a very significant role. we will need this support in the future too. this discussion does not stop here and i think the support which the concept of the youth guarantee has now received will be crucial. the message should be sent to the member states, whose agreement is needed on the scheme in february, but also on the funding aspect at a later stage.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. see the minutes. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 january, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the severe economic crisis that has been affecting europe for five years now has a particularly negative impact on young people aged 15 to 25. in italy the level of youth unemployment has reached 36%, and in the south of the peninsula in particular, it is as high as 50%: these are dramatic numbers with devastating consequences for the economy and society. we risk seeing a generation of young people grow up adrift, without goals and without hope. unfortunately, even the completion of solid studies no longer guarantees an easy entry into the world of work, increasing the frustration of those who, often with many sacrifices, hoped to embark on a profitable career. i am aware that the commission's initiative to propose a youth guarantee programme is not enough in itself to solve the problem of rampant youth unemployment, but it is nevertheless a commendable attempt to put a stop to the worrying phenomenon. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by andrea cozzolino, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the contribution of urban regeneration to economic growth in eu cohesion policy (2011/2311 ((ini)) (a7-0406/2012); the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on optimising the role of spatial regeneration in cohesion policy (2011/2312 ((ini)) (a7-0421/2012); the report by lena kolarska-bobińska, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the role of eu cohesion policy in the implementation of the new european energy policy (2012/2099 ((ini)) (a7-0437/2012); and the report by rosa ferragàs, on behalf of the committee on regional development, the european union solidarity fund and its implementation (2012/7539 ((ini)) (a7-0208/2012).
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report aims to put the issue of cities and the european urban network at the heart of future cohesion policy and european policy, as a major infrastructure and platform for increasing development, growth and employment, especially good employment. the city and the urban network and the urban question are also seen as a great challenge for the future, because here we measure the demographic decline, the premature ageing of the european population, phenomena of new and modern social and economic poverty; but the city and the european urban network are also seen as the place of creativity, of diffused intelligence, of the richness of the coexistence of different realities, of different generations, of different ethnicities. for these reasons we are thinking of a european plan for cities, a european plan for the urban network, through a wise use of the new resources of cohesion policy and the structural funds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. these are civil and industrial: a great program can be put into place here. a plan for the security of our urban and residential heritage: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems that exist in the european union, and that it is not a matter of the commission's proposals being ignored. a plan for a new public and popular building: the member states have long since abandoned any form of policy aimed at supporting public and popular housing. in fact, in many countries there is now an open conflict and we cannot rely on market policies alone to provide new opportunities, especially for the most exposed groups, which often correspond to young people and women, and above all to the new universe of family composition at european level. there is a very big issue that crosses the issue of cities and the urban network and it is the issue of the mobility of people and goods, and this can open up a very big debate, also from the point of view of environmental sustainability. finally, the great theme of safeguarding and protecting the immense historical heritage of our cities, a true source of wealth in terms of growth and development. and then, to address old issues, it insists on the new challenge, the theme of urban, suburban, peri-urban and rural areas, with the very big theme that i would like to point out, namely that of an urban policy that aims to reduce land use and not just agricultural land use: we have consumed too much in europe. this is the plan we want to present and the work we have done. i would also like to make two final remarks which, although not mentioned in the report, are nevertheless an integral part of it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs for their work. the reports under discussion have a common basis: all four aim to improve the performance of the territorial dimension in cohesion policy. i am glad that commissioner hahn has described all four of the work as excellent and that he has also recognised their unity of purpose. the cozzolino report puts cities at the heart of the rationale of cohesion policy, but not in isolation but in a harmonious context, which is represented by the suburban areas and the surrounding countryside; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a building is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised by the use of hazardous substances. in particular, as the shadow rapporteur for the cozzolino report, i have concentrated and will concentrate my attention briefly on the purpose of this report. in line with the rapporteur, we felt that we should give special attention to the urban dimension and in the report we ask the commission to link the objectives of the urban agenda to the objectives of europe 2020 and to make cities inclusive, smart and sustainable; the commission's proposal for a 5% ceiling for investment in urban policy should be the minimum rather than the maximum and, lastly, planning should involve local authorities in the development of a model of local participation, including decision-making and not just the management of resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall speak about the solidarity fund, a fund which has been used on several occasions by my country - i remember the earthquake in umbria but also, more recently, the tragedy in emilia - and which has also been used by my region, veneto, to deal with the flooding that has affected it. so i know the importance of it, but i also know its limitations. first of all, because help that comes late is useless help. disaster areas must be able to receive timely relief and flexible aid to cope with all possible emergencies. it is a matter of common sense, citizens cannot wait for europe to intervene for more than a year - as happened in the case of the flood in veneto - because of the bureaucracy in brussels. i am not questioning the role of the solidarity fund today, but i am calling for a review of the rules governing its operation, as i have been doing for two years. the time has come to rewrite the rules of european solidarity and its financial instrument: an advance on the compensation for damage suffered must be introduced; the distinction between major and extraordinary disasters, which in fact discriminates against and penalizes the victims, must be removed. the minimum damage threshold that allows its activation must be lowered. unfortunately, studies show that natural disasters will increase in intensity and frequency over the coming decades. europe must be ready, investing in instruments that can be a valuable support for the territory and for the citizens when they are unfortunately affected by natural disasters. i would also like to take this opportunity to remind all of us of the need for europe to invest more in prevention, to prevent at least those tragedies which can and must be avoided.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is a valuable instrument for development, growth and employment: the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am satisfied with the work because i see that important steps have been taken towards greater involvement of regions and local authorities in all the stages of the union's funding: from their design to their implementation. the integration of european funds is also important, with the possibility for local partnerships to choose, among the different combinations, the one that best meets the needs of the territory and the citizens. the opening up of alternative sources of finance, such as microcredit, which would open the door to financing for a wide range of actors, is also needed. the objective of implementing multi-level governance must therefore pass through these solutions, in order to bring the citizen and his particular needs closer to europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. thank you for this engaging and very wide-ranging debate. i understand that mr ferreira, who is no longer here, feels that we should look at the individual issues in more detail. lewis mumford, one of the most important cultural historians, once said that the city is the most precious invention of mankind, second only to language in the development or dissemination of culture. there's really nothing to add to that. the city is essentially a 1:1 laboratory for social development, a trendsetter for good and for bad, and it is therefore only appropriate that we at european level should be very much concerned with the city, with urban spaces, and should also provide resources for this. because many of the 2020 targets are only achievable if we address the issues in cities right now. the territorial aspect is a very important one, and i am grateful that it has been addressed in a separate report. we need integrated but - and this is possible with our future regulations - tailor-made approaches. we must work towards this, including in the negotiations. that is why, once again, the reference to the multi-level governance approach that we proposed as the commission will survive in the regulations, as far as i follow the negotiations. but the way in which it is applied will be decisive, and we will concentrate on observing it accordingly. i am pleased that the subject of energy efficiency, energy generation in the field of renewable energy is given such a space. when i took up my job at the time, there was a lot of persuasion to be done, particularly in the new member states, to work towards this priority. i am glad that this is now a widespread belief and i hope that future regulations on minimum allocations will take these things into account. the european union is not a party to the gatt agreement. again, thank you for your support. as i have already announced, we will be putting forward a proposal in a few weeks. i think i have to disappoint you in one of them already today: we will not be able to transfer the solidarity fund to the regular budget, but it will still be a system that has to be operated outside the budget, with the overall necessary procedures for evaluation and determining the appropriate scales of magnitude necessary for the individual cases of damage. i can, however, announce to you a proposal which is intended to make it easier to assess disasters in advance. could you please turn down the phone? we will put forward a proposal to the solidarity fund which aims to facilitate the assessment of disasters in advance in such a way that the chances of refunds actually occurring when applications are submitted are much higher than they are at present. we want a clear simplification here, but also a simplification in the sense that those affected have much greater security whether compensation is paid or not. this is also a requirement of fairness, especially in such disastrous situations as those that occur after natural disasters. the word prevention is dropped. i would point out that this is also an essential aspect on which we must concentrate in the future. i am grateful for the various references to the mff negotiations. there's nothing to add to that. the commission's position is clear. i would also like to thank all those, such as mrs krehl, who have pointed out the need for thematic concentration and the need for communication to promote the policy and the effects it produces. it is important that we understand this policy as an investment policy, an investment in people, in regions, in structures. this is not a contradiction to the idea of solidarity. solidarity is reflected in the allocation of funds and in the fact that over 70% of the funds go to the 25% of the poorest regions. but how you invest should follow the idea of the investment philosophy. in conclusion, and in summary - this too is part of communication, we have to do our homework here - it is important to show how well used cohesion instruments are in safeguarding jobs and, above all, creating jobs throughout the community.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the debate has strengthened two basic concepts which we have included in the report, and i thank all the members for their contribution to the debate and to the preparation of the report itself. on the one hand, the role of cities as a factor of growth, development and new jobs in the months and years to come; the second is that we have succeeded in getting at least 5% of the programming resources of the new structural funds to be devoted to a programme of redevelopment and revitalisation of the role of cities. this is a new development which i think should be taken into account in the work of the committee itself, and i think that at least a third consideration should be added to these considerations, which seems to have been the focus of the debate: and that is the fact that the theme of cities evokes a more general theme: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the role of cities is to find a way out of the risk of decline that we may find ourselves in in the coming months and years, as the crisis subsides. it is therefore a fundamental issue on which we must concentrate more attention and that is why i believe that we must reflect on the need to have more resources in the new budget, as was stressed in the debate, to experiment - it is incomprehensible to me why we cannot experiment with project bonds also for the large infrastructure of cities and the urban fabric of cities - and then work on this issue, and this is the issue on which i would like to entrust the commission and the commissioner's sensitivity above all - the issue, as i said, of giving this policy a stronger legal basis. it is not the case at present and it is difficult for europe, without a legal basis, to make a decisive contribution in this field.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that we have spoken in this chamber about the initiative which was unanimously adopted by the juri committee, following the work carried out by a working group which i chaired from 2010 onwards, with a view to the proposal for a regulation laying down rules of administrative procedure in the administration of the union, which is legitimated by article 298 of the treaty and article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights, which refers to the right to good administration. we've prepared a lot of material, heard a lot of opinions, studied the situation; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and it has been possible to draw up a legislative own-initiative report, which we are submitting to parliament today, in which the commission and the council are asked to draw up a regulation on this subject. the importance of this fact lies in the fact that there are legislative disciplines of administrative procedures, but that this matter, having grown in a stratified and historical way, has led to the existence of a multifaceted reality governed by different sets of regulations, in which, however, the administration has achieved an "exorbitant power", which creates conditions of disadvantage for citizens, institutions and businesses in their relationship with the administration. that 's the real point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what procedure will be followed? what are my rights during the procedure? do i have the right to access my file or to be heard? what are the deadlines and times? i am giving examples to show that the european union needs to be given greater legitimacy in relation to its citizens than in the past, with clarity as regards the relationship between citizens and administration, business and administration. we therefore call for a lex generalis, a kind of de minimis rule in the absence of lex specialis, with a core of general principles providing for a regulation and therefore protection no less than that provided for in the member states, general principles of good administration. we are convinced that the aim is to strike the right balance between an efficient administration, capable of producing qualified activity, but also transparent and open, and protecting the rights of citizens. it is an essential balance which i believe is possible today, but not without such a standard. the principles thus developed will then enrich the whole, because they will stimulate the production of case law by the european court of justice and the national courts. finally, i thank commissioner šefčovič for his attention to this subject and i hope that at least in this legislature the first concrete steps will be taken in this direction.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the own-initiative report prepared by mr berlinguer, as this report clearly identifies and elaborates a core set of fundamental administrative principles and rules stemming from different sources. in addition, a wide range of valuable background material was collected during its preparation, and i would really like to express my appreciation of the impressive work carried out by mr berlinguer and his team. the end result puts our administrative practices into perspective and raises pertinent questions in terms of how to further improve the administration of the union institutions, bodies and agencies. the right to good administration is one of the fundamental rights to be enjoyed by everyone in the european union – be it a multinational company facing a decision, an ngo applying for a grant, or a citizen seeking information – and it is enshrined in article 41 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. moreover, all eu institutions are bound by it. in the areas where the eu is involved in administrative procedures, a substantive framework of principles and rules has developed and currently applies. it consists of treaty provisions, including the eu charter of fundamental rights; general principles established by case law; cross-cutting legislation, such as staff regulations; access to documents; and legislation that is specific to sectors such as competition or procurement. in addition to these legal obligations, staff are bound by codes of good administrative behaviour in almost all eu institutions, bodies and agencies. against this backdrop, the development of a generally applicable, and thus comprehensive, regulation on eu administrative procedures – i.e. a codification exercise – has to be considered with great care. the codification of administrative law is a delicate instrument that should be used with precaution and a sense of proportion. to involve the commission and the legislator in such an exercise may have some undeniable benefits in terms of legal security and legibility, as stated clearly in the report. but it is a complicated exercise that bears some possible costs as well. it can often have unintended consequences and entail certain risks in terms of lack of flexibility or adaptability over time, oversimplification, which limits its added value, or, on the contrary, over-complexity resulting from an overlap with existing rules. the bottom line, therefore, is that it is incumbent upon us, when analysing whether or not to propose a codified instrument for the whole eu administration and all institutions, to weigh the possible advantages against the costs. and it is this very analysis that the commission is currently conducting, based on the very valuable guidelines and material provided by your report, mr berlinguer. for example, our services are currently looking into the cases of maladministration identified by the added-value report, and these cases are very useful in addressing the issue of how to improve our administrative practices. therefore, taking your substance-based report as a starting point, the commission is examining whether there are examples of maladministration that result from weaknesses in the current framework, and how such instances can be most effectively avoided in the future. to sum up, the commission welcomes the own-initiative report and the impressive background material that comes with it. we are studying it carefully, and i can assure you that in doing so we are guided by the same interests as yours in an open, efficient and independent eu administration. we, of course, will inform parliament of the anticipated follow-up within the three-month period provided for by the framework agreement.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i feel that a rapporteur like mr berlinguer could not fail to do a good job, an important job on a subject which i believe is of great importance, perhaps more than we imagine. that is why i think we must approve all this work tomorrow - the legal affairs committee has already done so unanimously, as mr berlinguer said - and hope that the commission and the council will follow up on this in a timely manner. we have the right to good administration. it sounds like a cliché, but it's the heart of the relationship between the citizen and the administration. there is a legal vacuum in the legislation which we must fill and we must codify the procedures. i believe that this is not only important from a technical point of view, not only for the right to good administration, but also for an administration which has a close relationship with the institutions, because the institutions are interacting through an active, transparent, open and efficient relationship. it is a question of the right of the people to selfdetermination, and it is a question of the right of the people to selfdetermination. i think this is one of the important prerequisites, because if we aspire to have more europe - as we say, perhaps in every country, we say it in italy - it means that we want europe to have a close relationship with the citizen and that the latter feels alive and own the institutions to which he must turn. i believe that this is a key step in building the europe we want. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was not aware of the court of auditors' decision to which you refer, but obviously, if that is the case, i cannot help but acknowledge that there is a shortcoming. but perhaps all the words i have spoken and all the work done by the committee and by mr berlinguer are aimed at remedying these shortcomings and avoiding these misunderstandings or avoiding these failures which, of course, go in the opposite direction to what we have indicated.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank all the honourable members for this debate. it is quite clear that the report prepared by mr berlinguer has major support, and i am sure that will be very much underlined tomorrow in the vote. allow me to respond very briefly. several members made a comparison with member states, but here i think one also has to bear in mind that, contrary to the case of national administrations, the areas of direct administration by the eu institutions are limited. so it is difficult to compare them fully. on top of this, six member states have no qualified administrative procedural law at all. so, just by way of comparing what things were like in the recent period as opposed to previously, i think that in the area of direct administration by the eu, significant codification efforts were made. that evolution was actually much faster and quicker than in many of our member states. however, i want to underline once again that what we want is the continuous improvement of sectoral and issue-specific principles, because we have obtained very good results through that process. i want also to underline one very important fact, which is that we will carefully consider the report by mr berlinguer and we will look at all options with a very open mind. i am absolutely convinced that the report by mr berlinguer will be very much supported by the house tomorrow. i see that i have nine seconds left, so the only remark i would like to make is with regard to a statement with which i cannot agree at all. that statement was that the eu administration, and the administration of the commission, is deeply flawed. i deeply resent this statement because it is simply not true. we know why there is a problem, and we know the court of auditors’ position. this is not down to the commission’s administration – because all our reports are always in green and our accounts are ok. the problem we have is that we cannot get financial declarations on how eu funds are spent in all the member states. we are trying to fix that through the new approach to cohesion policy, which was discussed just a moment ago, and through the new possibilities which will be offered by the new financial regulation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner šefčovič and i do not want to interpret his caution as a coldness towards this subject. there are two ways to make an administrative procedure law: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we wouldn 't want that . we would like to see a law on administrative procedure that streamlines, makes the process more fluid, gives greater certainty and reduces the resulting conflicts of jurisdiction. there are two ways of doing this. so we do not think that making a law on the administrative procedure of the european administration alone will make the relationship between citizens and the administration more burdensome: it's the exact opposite. we want an administration that is efficient but also democratic, open and accountable. we must therefore overcome the impression, which may be unfounded, that some in the commission are concerned about being overly observed and evaluated from the outside through the administrative procedure. i believe that it is in the interests of the commission and the administration to be clear on this matter. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the commission is prepared to take action in this area. european citizenship, the credibility of the institutions and the love of the citizen for europe are not only based on the great strategies or the great measures of economic growth, but also on the everyday relationship between the citizen and the administration. it would increase the legitimacy of europe, its credibility, europe itself. we expect a lot: if there is a large majority tomorrow approving this measure, it will be a solemn invitation from parliament to make a concrete proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the six months of the cypriot presidency have in fact ended in failure, because it has not succeeded in liberating the part of europe that is militarily occupied by a third country. in 1974 turkey invaded the northern part of cyprus, driving out the local population and replacing them with anatolian turks, who occupied villages and towns, taking away the property, the houses, the work of the rightful owners. the christian religion is effectively banned and masses can be celebrated only in a few authorized churches. as you are well aware, over 500 religious buildings, including cemeteries, have been destroyed and their property stolen. the european union, perhaps out of pure economic interest, has never had the courage to take a firm stand on the situation, going so far as to finance the construction of public works in turkey itself. i thought that your presidency would make the liberation of occupied northern cyprus and the return of property to its rightful owners the first condition for any further relations with turkey. but that is not the case.
member of the commission. − i do not know what i can say that will convince you about the funding aspects of the framework programme up to now and what the funding aspects of horizon 2020 will be other than to repeat once again that we do not engage in the funding of other than the civilian dimension of security. we are very conscious of this and always have been, and we have ethical responses within the directorate-general in relation to this whole area. we are conscious that the funding – the money that comes from the european taxpayers – needs to be used in research and innovations that add to the well-being of the european union, that provide the kind of growth and innovations and sustainability that is required within the european union. but we do not have control, which i think you accept, if those innovations or that research is then used in for military purposes. we do not fund military research in any way. we are very conscious of the sensitivities in relation to the funding of research in israel. as you know, this parliament and the council signed up to a proposal or protocol in relation to what that funding might be. obviously in the course of the discussion on horizon 2020 if parliament and the council wish to change that in any way, then it will be up to parliament and the council to do that, but we do not operate in any way outside what has been agreed and sanctioned by parliament and the council in this area. i think that as a member of parliament you have a particular role and a particular voice to play when that discussion comes up.
vice-president of the commission. − i could not agree more with what ms geoghegan-quinn mentioned in talking about cyber security. it calls for another mindset, so to speak; it is no longer the old-fashioned definition of military activities, rather it is talking about all those actions and activities that are connected with services that are made for our society. i am talking about water services, energy, etc. i would also take this opportunity, to say that this is connected to what we are discussing this morning. it started with creating jobs and talking about a future economy. the future economy of europe is connected with research and innovation; otherwise we cannot beat our competitors outside europe. i can assure you they are alert. i am talking about south korea, taiwan, the people’s republic of china, and what they are spending on research and innovation is nearly double what we are. having said that, there is also a connection with the issue of jobs and the younger generation in particular. if we are talking about new areas – for example ict – where research is being focused, it is new industrial areas where we can play a major role as europe. i am talking about photonics, nano-electronics, micro-electronics. all of this relates to research and innovation, otherwise we are losing, and we are losing opportunities for the younger generation too. so, please be aware that a different mindset is needed when talking about all those phases we are faced with.
member of the commission. − first of all let me say that it is exactly for this reason that the eit was created. for many years europe has been investing quite rightly in research – and we should continue doing that – but in comparison with our competitors from around the world we are lagging behind in innovation. we have excellent research centres, excellent universities and very dynamic businesses, but we do not innovate, we do not produce products and services directly to the market. this is exactly the purpose of the eit. i know that you are a great supporter of the eit, but coming from a less developed part of europe i fully share your concern that, for the time being, the eit and its kics are concentrated more in the core countries of the european union. believe me, our purpose – and that is why we have made it one of our three priorities for the future of the eit – is to extend the knowledge and the benefits that are being acquired from the kics to the less developed areas of europe. i know that one of the amendments put forward by parliament is the creation of the regional innovation schemes. i support that, but let me be frank: we should try to do this, but not to the detriment of excellence, because eit is based on excellence and the kics, in the way they are created, are bottom-up partnerships and unless we have excellence in certain areas we cannot have a full-fledged kic in that area. however, at the same time we want to give the chance to experts, in the various regions of europe, to work together with existing kics and the eit in order to transfer this knowledge to the less developed areas and gradually help in building these regional innovation schemes which you are proposing. so i am in favour and we have to discuss the details of these schemes.
member of the commission. − let me say that we have already started awareness-raising activities in the various member states, because you are absolutely right: there is ignorance about this. when i speak about the eit, people do not know what it is all about. that is the only way that we can mobilise the expertise that there is in the various regions, and that is why i am vigorously promoting awareness-raising activities in the various countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to raise three quick questions: i would like to know whether the focus in horizon 2020 on the principle of technology transfer as a means of innovation is a starting point or an end point for the next programming period. second point: i believe that it is crucial for competitiveness to invest more and better in space policies. it is important to join research programmes and the gms programme must be given substance, because it is a crucial resource for monitoring the state of climate change and air pollution. finally, in the context of the priorities, investment must be directed more and better towards the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, the most innovative ones, which are an important resource for economic development and employment.
member of the commission. − yes, i think sharing of information is crucially important, and showing them the elements of simplification that are particularly directed at smes. this is something we can help you with. anytime you simplify, an sme is truly delighted that this has happened. we also will have in place an instrument like the small business innovation research (sbir) programme they have in the united states, which again is crucially important for smes. we will have the financial instrument that i talked about earlier, the risk-sharing instrument, which is targeted at smes, and we will also have the national contact points which are there already for smes, but they obviously will be reinforced. i think there are a lot of elements there that are particularly directed at smes. we had a target in the last framework programme of 15% of the funding going to smes. as you know last year we passed that target and we were very pleased with it. we have proposed a target in horizon 2020. i am sure that will be one of the elements of the discussions in the trialogue, but we are very conscious of bringing more and more smes to the table and into the framework programme.
member of the commission. − can i just say on the last point that the commission has a policy in relation to quotas of women on state boards which is fully supported by every single member of the college of commissioners, including every single one of the women. that is the first point i want to make. my second point is that, in relation to women, we are very conscious that in the whole research area we have a high percentage of women coming out of college and getting involved in the research area, and then a period of time during which that high number falls away and in which it is very difficult them for them – and sometimes impossible – when they decide to come back into the workforce to get back into research. so we are very conscious that we need to do something to stimulate that and make it easier. we have various proposals in place for doing that. but one of the crucial elements is that in the whole area of stem education, which is a problem and a challenge for all the member states, it is an even bigger problem to get girls involved in this whole area. so we proposed a policy, ‘science: it’s a girl thing’, which we launched last year. in the autumn we rolled out in a number of member states a very successful communication drive in relation to this whole programme. we have a facebook page with 28 000 ‘likes’, of which 70% are girls between the ages of 13 and 18. that is the exact target age group that we have for ‘science: it’s a girl thing’ because that is when students make decisions about their future and where they would like to study. that means in effect that we are reaching our target. the roll-out in a number of member states of ‘science: it’s a girl thing’ and the proposals that we have is very important. from a gender point of view generally, if you look at different areas of the programme, there is a higher percentage of women involved in certain aspects of the framework programme – health, for example, is an area where a lot of women are involved and continue to be involved. however, i think that we need to focus on getting more women involved in science at a very early age. i had a great privilege over the weekend in the member state that i know best of visiting the bt young scientist & technology exhibition, where again and again the number of young women who are enthusiastic, involved, have their projects, are confident and can describe in great detail what their project is about is amazing. but we lose them somewhere along the way when they leave education. i think that is an area that we need to concentrate on and certainly we are putting the proposals in place, together with the support of the commissioner responsible for education, commissioner vassiliou, who has been particularly interested in the whole area of gender and how girls get involved in this whole area of research and innovation. i think we have done a lot. there is a lot to be done, but i think it is also a national responsibility and that governments – and in particular education departments of governments – have a crucial role to play. they need to take their responsibility and we will support them in whatever responsibility they take.
member of the commission. − in addition to what commissioner geoghegan-quinn said, i would like to add that, as commissioner responsible for education, it is one of our priorities to encourage from the very early stages –in primary schools – to encourage young girls to show inclination and interest in science, in mathematics, exactly the fields we need most. this, of course, also goes for the higher level of education, and in eit of course we place special emphasis on that. i will give you a very concrete example: in the marie skłodowska-curie actions under horizon 2020, we have put as one of our priorities the encouragement of women researchers. we set a target of 40%, which i am very pleased to say we have achieved. this year we are aiming even higher. why? because we can create a very conducive atmosphere and climate for women to participate; we recognise maternity rights – we give women the same rights when they come back after a career break – so it is a very conducive environment for women. this year we have introduced a special prize for marie curie actions, and i am very pleased to say that out of the three people who were awarded the prize, two were women.
member of the commission. − you can be assured that we are very conscious of the fact that we need to communicate what our policies are. in this area i think the ‘science: it’s a girl thing!’ policy is particularly important. as i said, it got a lot of publicity at the beginning, when it was launched. it is now being rolled out over a number of member states – last autumn, for example – very successfully. we are using social media because we think that social media is a really important aspect, and an area in which young women, as well as all young people, get a lot of their information. it is also important to say that the web is available in all of the languages, so there is no excuse at the moment for people to say they could not understand what was on the webpage. it is available in all of the languages and we are, you can be assured, very conscious of the fact that we need to communicate what we are doing because it is, we believe, a very positive policy area.
commissioner, there has been a lot of talk today about the contradiction between objectives and the availability of resources. i have no doubt of your true intention: but i must say that i do not feel that the whole commission is with you. so a formal act by the president of the commission, stating that the financial resources are available to help you achieve your objectives, might help to dispel these doubts and perplexities. the second question i wanted to ask you is about the relationship between policies and the objectives that are to be achieved. in a crisis phase, there must be priorities: i think that europe's priority today is to defend its production system and its innovation. if this is not defined and there is no coherence between the actions of some commissioners and others, there is a risk that we may have many good intentions but not achieve the desired results.
member of the commission. − i think first of all you need to be reassured that the commission is fully behind the proposal that it presented, which included a proposal of an eur 80 billion investment in research, innovation and science. i also think it is important to state here that one of the most avid supporters of investments in research and innovation has been president barroso himself. from day one when i got this job, he made a very clear statement in which he stated that we do wonderful research in europe, but we have failed to translate that research into innovations. he told me that my job would be about clearing the obstacles which are in the way of making that happen. in all of the public pronouncements that he has made, he has been very clear that the investment and the economy of the future is investment in research, science and innovation. in relation to prioritising, i agree with you entirely, it is very important that, rather than putting out a proposal which scatters small amounts of funding over a very large area, it was important for us to decide which priority areas we needed to focus on. what are the challenges which are facing not just europe but the world? what are the areas that are in europe’s strategic interest? this is indeed what we have said: strategic programming for us means the whole research family within the commission working together strategically to programme for the future. i think that is a huge development. it is an area in which you have not just all of the commissioners working together, but you have all of the services also working together to ensure that what we do is done in a strategic way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add a comment. i have not mentioned by chance that productive goods are the primary objective in the defence of the traditional structure of our part of the world and its revival. but i would also like to add the services sector, because in many services we absolutely need the same kind of innovation. in fact, when services work, that territory attracts investment. we must break the tendency to see innovation and research as being directed, if not exclusively, primarily towards the production of goods. services are equally valuable.
member of the commission. − when i responded i referred to key enabling technologies which, from a manufacturing point of view, are the future of europe. we very strongly support key enabling technologies. we have done this in the high-level group, which was chaired by vice-president tajani and had vice-president kroes and myself as members, where european industry and industry which is not european but is working in the european space were very much involved. there are crucial proposals laid out in that final report which will be worked on as we move forward. for us, manufacturing is very important. i think that what is happening in an area as innovative as the basque region is something that needs to be supported strongly.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
mr president, more than two thirds of the european population live in urban areas and it is in cities that problems such as unemployment, poverty and discrimination are concentrated. promoting urban redevelopment and regeneration is therefore one of the main challenges facing the european union. only through careful spatial planning and a revival of the urban sector will it be possible to strengthen the link between the centre and the periphery, create new development opportunities and make european cities safer, more modern and more tolerant.
mr president, i too voted in favour of this dossier, which concretely develops initiatives aimed at economic cohesion and sustainable and intelligent growth. 80% of the population live in urban areas, so the resources used for this purpose should promote well-being and quality of life. in particular, a series of initiatives aimed at the redevelopment of urban centres, the introduction of new activities to ensure quality standards in line with the expectations of the population. the structural funds must be used correctly in this respect, with measurable and defined objectives which best meet the needs of the population: the commission has also proposed measures to protect natural resources, promote energy efficiency and, finally, initiatives such as the covenant of mayors, which best meet the needs of the local community.
mr president, i voted in favour of this important resolution. i have always been convinced that the urban context is the most important place in which to make europe's presence felt, to improve the social and economic growth of our societies and, above all, to regain the trust of our citizens. democracy is built from the bottom up and it is at the level closest to the citizens that appropriate policies and services must be ensured, which directly improve our daily lives. this is the purpose of european cohesion policy, which must always keep pace with economic and social change. the local development model today must be innovative and adapted to meet new challenges, including the economic crisis, climate change and ageing populations. urban redevelopment should also include experimental actions, abandoning traditional approaches and rethinking spatial planning methodologies. in this respect, i strongly support the choice to provide in the cohesion policy that at least 5% of the european development fund be devoted to this.
mr president, the allocation of 5% of the fund managed directly by the cities to integrated urban development measures is a good starting point for the european institutions to think about the cities of the future. urban redevelopment is an essential tool for economic and social growth at local level. in this respect, the new eu cohesion policy will have to ensure the social sustainability of urban transformation in order to contain the risk of displacement of the weaker sections of the population from areas affected by redevelopment processes. mr president, cohesion policies are an instrument which aims to eliminate social imbalances between citizens and the territory of the union, and in this sense, in this context, urban redevelopment can be an instrument for improving the quality of life, provided, however, that the identity and memory of cultural and territorial subjectivities embedded in urban contexts are enhanced.
mr president, i would like to express my appreciation for this report, because it finally puts the urban dimension at the heart of cohesion policy. 2013 will be a decisive year, as all the actors in the economic and social development of the european region will be engaged in preparing their operational programmes, in the hope that they will give due attention to the redevelopment of the urban suburbs and degraded areas of our cities, planning real programmes of social urban regeneration. urban areas are certainly a growth engine, but they are also the places where the major social problems are located, which can only be tackled in a new logic of integration, which also takes into account those suburban and peripheral areas. the central role of the urban dimension will mean making a wise use of the new resources of cohesion policy and the structural funds.
mr president, the economic recovery of cities is a source of job creation and improvement in the quality of life. but above all it means social and territorial integration. i think it is very important that 5% of the european regional development fund should be allocated to integrated actions for sustainable urban development. this will mean finally activating new policies for urban redevelopment, reviving the popular housing sector - which has been dead for too long - and having additional and valuable resources to build better public services, more equipped green spaces and leisure, cultural and sport facilities. i would therefore like to thank mr cozzolino for his excellent work.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, not only because of the work done in committee but also because of the positive outcome of yesterday's debate, which saw parliament and the commission converge positively on the main points of the regi committee's own-initiative report. i was a shadow rapporteur on the cozzolino report and i am firmly convinced that the territorial dimension and, for it, urban space is an instrument for promoting social and economic cohesion in europe through a transparent and intelligent use of structural resources. cities need to be given a new face to enable them to absorb the economic crisis, by breaking down cultural and social barriers and promoting integration among urban citizens. to achieve these objectives, we are asking in the cozzolino report - and yesterday commissioner hahn seems to have agreed with our request - that the urban agenda should focus on the objectives of sustainability, innovation and inclusiveness, that multi-fund actions should be promoted so that the 5% erdf is only the starting point, that the local development model should be of the participatory type and that local administrators should therefore participate not only in the management phase but also in the decision-making phase.
mr president, with the vote just taken by a large majority, parliament intends to give a more concrete dimension to the european union's cohesion policy by putting the context in which more than two thirds of the european population live, namely urban centres, at the centre of the action. cities are historically places where the difficulties of daily life are most felt: i am not referring only to economic terms, but also to social and interpersonal terms. the european cohesion policy, which in the period 2007-2013 represented a significant share of the european budget with eur 347 billion (corresponding to 35.7% of the total budget), aims with this resolution to highlight the dimension closer to the citizens. obviously, a new approach to problems such as efficient energy management, waste management, immigration, the ageing of the population, to name just a few, cannot ignore the need for the european institutions to attach greater importance to local elected representatives, namely mayors.
in writing. - i abstained on the cozzolino report on the contribution of urban redevelopment to economic growth in eu cohesion policy. in his report, the honourable member calls for a greater concentration of erdf resources on urban areas, identifying them as the nerve centre for the development of future cohesion policy. i believe that, although there are some points of agreement in this text, the interest of cohesion policy cannot be confined to urban areas alone but must be much broader.
in writing. - i agree with the analysis underlying the resolution and the text and therefore i vote in favour. indeed, urban areas are the principal place where the most challenging challenge to our social model and our founding principles of widespread well-being and civil rights is being consummated. i 'll add: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis, but that it is not disrupted by the economic crisis. even programmes of great value such as urban have sometimes been reduced to short-term considerations by administrations concerned primarily with their immediate financial situation rather than with governing the processes of urban transformation in the sense of creating opportunities suited to the features and needs of our urban societies. it seems to me that the resolution offers solutions to these problems, also in specific areas such as those mentioned in paragraphs 9 and 14, which propose to strengthen the participation and involvement of the territory in order to build consensus, to achieve objectives of general interest and to control the effectiveness of expenditure.
in writing. − in an increasingly urbanised social and geographical context and in view of the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, there is a need to rethink the role and function of cities, their articulation and ability to work together to contribute to the economic growth of the member states and, more broadly, of the eu as a whole. in this sense, the already successful urban programme has borne fruit and deserves further study in order to make the necessary improvements. i am convinced that the development of urban areas is a key element in the proper implementation of cohesion policies. i therefore hope that the shared programme-related incentives will be fully exploited.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the contribution of urban redevelopment to economic growth in eu cohesion policy as i believe that it can have a positive impact on regional imbalances within the community, thus avoiding the segregation of the most deprived social classes, which are often concentrated and polarized in peripheral areas. moreover, in a time of crisis such as the present, redeveloping the city to attract an increasing number of tourists could be beneficial to the economic recovery which is closely linked to urban redevelopment; it is therefore essential to give back symbolic spaces to the community and thus promote cultural heritage.
in writing. - the importance of the urban dimension in the european union today is undeniable, considering that as many as 80% of community citizens live in this context. this is the area most affected by the current crisis, and in recent years many changes have taken place in our cities. the whole european strategy must therefore be revised in order to be able to cope with the new challenges facing cities, starting with a phenomenon which has become increasingly evident, with the rush to move from central areas to peripheral areas, where housing costs are often more affordable. we must avoid the risk of depopulation of the city centres, which are historical and cultural assets of absolute value, and which can lead in the worst case to degradation and abandonment. the urban area is often also the driving force behind the surrounding rural area, and the two dimensions must be seen as a unit, as is rightly emphasized in this report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
in writing. − 2013 opens with a key objective for the european union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all sectors are involved and are obliged to commit themselves to an organised and effective programme. within the eu's cohesion policy, one of the contributions to economic growth is the so-called urban redevelopment which, based on the analysis of migration flows from peripheral areas, will have to set an agenda capable of ensuring sustainability and development in situations of constant population growth.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on the contribution of urban regeneration to economic growth in eu cohesion policy. urban redevelopment and regeneration is one of the main challenges facing the european union, and it is necessary to strengthen the link between cities and development and between urban centres and the surrounding area. the report proposes methods for revitalising town planning and spatial planning, and opens a debate on planning practices and instruments of intervention which can enrich environmental, territorial, commercial and road policies. i am convinced that the proposal, in addition to providing the means to improve the quality of life of european citizens, will make a significant contribution to the development of cohesion policies.
in writing. - i welcome the motion for a resolution tabled by parliament. europe is no longer in a phase of constant economic growth, and many cities are facing serious threats of economic stagnation or decline. demographic change is creating a number of challenges: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal. today, 80% of europe's citizens live in urban areas, a proportion that is growing further as migration from rural to urban areas accelerates. problems such as unemployment, discrimination and poverty are crucial to understanding that the european model of sustainable urban development is in danger. it is in cities that the effects of the economic crisis are most concentrated and that the challenges of job creation, well-being and quality of life are most acute. the local development model is a strength of cohesion policy because it mobilises decisive factors, encourages the selection of the best choices that are closest to the citizens, more coherent, effective and efficient joint actions, and gives greater visibility to community action even in areas of the eu facing the most difficult challenges.
mr president, it is clear that cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for the regions of the union. in particular, in view of the economic crisis that has affected europe since 2008, it is necessary to ensure that the available resources are spent efficiently in order for citizens to benefit fully from union funding. the involvement of local and regional authorities at every stage of the design, development and implementation of funding programmes is therefore essential to ensure that local needs are met and that the territorial potential is used to the best possible effect in achieving the objectives of cohesion policy.
mr president, i think this resolution deserves our full support. the european union's funding programmes, which form part of the commission's common strategic framework and are designed to implement cohesion policies, must be coordinated as much as possible in order to be most effective. territorial cohesion is one of the objectives recognised by the treaty of lisbon and is a cross-cutting aspect of the various programmes: that is why we must get the best out of all the programmes and coordinate them. european funding is now more than ever an important resource for the territories, given the shortage of regional and local budgets, which has been exacerbated by the economic crisis. therefore, funds must increasingly be spent in a smart and effective way, involving local and regional authorities through partnership agreements, to achieve participatory local development through integrated territorial investments.
mr president, just as i voted in favour of mr cozzolino's report, which i welcome, i voted in favour of the vaughan report on optimising the role of the territorial dimension in cohesion policy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. only a comprehensive view of the problems and an integrated policy approach with integrated implementation of funding programmes will determine the effectiveness of union funds at local and regional level. to understand and to give an example, just think of the structural funds and the horizon 2020 funds, both of which should be able to apply to projects which aim to strengthen one of the main elements on which we are concentrating, namely research, technological development, innovation, one of the priorities which, as i said before, we have set ourselves among the 11 main thematic objectives. the instruments suggested by the commission to encourage greater synergies between the funds should therefore be supported by concrete implementation mechanisms at regional and local level.
mr president, cohesion policy is a fundamental instrument for social and economic growth and for ensuring, with the funds available, integration between urban and rural areas. this requires promoting multi-level governance by creating partnerships, networks and projects with the common provisions regulation funds. these integrated territorial investments can bring great benefits to young people, smes, social policies, the fight against poverty and social exclusion and much more. it is therefore a good package of proposals and i hope that a portal will also be set up as soon as possible to enable citizens, businesses and local and regional authorities to have easy access to all the information on european funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the vaughan report, which analyses the role of territorial development in cohesion policies. the text strongly emphasises the importance of multi-level governance as a tool to ensure that decisions are ever closer to and in line with the needs of citizens and our territories. i hope that the revision of cohesion policy for the future 2014-2020 programming period will converge towards a massive simplification of the administrative burden associated with the use of the funds, in order to ensure optimal access to resources and greater coordination between them and individual programmes.
in writing. − the importance of creating multi-level governance, with a particular focus on the creation of macro-regions that take decisions at a level closer to the citizens, is a positive development at european level. the simplification of the procedure for obtaining european funds and the development of links between rural and urban areas are also fully acceptable objectives. for all these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. − optimising the role of the territorial dimension in cohesion policy involves choices concerning more effective communication between the different political and institutional levels, joint collaboration between them and a community of interest in meeting and achieving the needs and objectives of the territories. with the new multiannual financial framework (mff) coming into force, which will set the spending ceilings for the community budget over the next seven years (2014-2020), the role of territorial realities will be questioned again and put at the centre of the debate. it is clear that the optimisation of the territorial dimension is important for the effective and efficient spending of european funds. the commission has therefore decided to continue along the path traced so far, keeping in mind the difficulties encountered so far, in order to analyse the causes and find the appropriate solutions for a sustainable growth, both from an economic and social point of view, of local realities.
in writing. − territorial cohesion is now recognised by the lisbon treaty as a key objective of the eu; cohesion policy aims instead to reduce disparities between eu regions by strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. the territorial dimension is a cross-cutting aspect of cohesion policy and offers the union's regions the opportunity to exploit their territorial potential in order to achieve cohesion policy objectives. in the current economic climate, it is clear that cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for the eu's regions. in addition, it is becoming increasingly necessary to ensure that resources are spent efficiently so that citizens can fully benefit from eu funding. the involvement of local and regional authorities at every stage of the design, development and implementation of eu funding programmes becomes crucial to ensure that local needs are met. moreover, the territorial dimension, as a cross-cutting aspect of cohesion policy, gives eu regions the opportunity to exploit their territorial potential in pursuing cohesion policy objectives. in short, we need a real contribution and an efficient and effective cohesion policy in this respect.
mr president, in 2002, after the devastating floods in central europe, the european union launched the solidarity fund to help the people affected and the member states affected by the disaster. over the past 10 years, the fund has provided valuable financial support but has also revealed some shortcomings: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. given the need to adapt the solidarity fund to the present situation, i welcome changes which, without entailing additional costs, can simplify procedures by defining more clearly the concept of catastrophe and by outlining more precisely when you are entitled to benefit from this instrument.
mr president, let me express my surprise at hearing from the british nationalists' benches statements about the public spending of the european union, when in order to stay in europe they are calling for a discount, a rebate, and vice versa, they are calling for the application of full rights. turning to the european union solidarity fund, we have unfortunately seen in this house on several occasions statements of solidarity and witness to the serious damage that weather events and unforeseeable situations have caused to our people. i believe that the solidarity fund has proved to be one of the most effective instruments for european integration policies, being one of the few instruments that the european union has at its disposal to bear witness, to demonstrate directly solidarity and closeness to the european citizens. the current wording of the regulation, however, required some changes, both to shorten the time for granting aid and to clarify the definition of disaster itself, which was currently ambiguous and therefore raised - as my colleague mrs zanicchi said - undue expectations. as a member of parliament, i would like to see and welcome the acceptance of the requests for agreement on at least these two points - i am addressing myself to the council and the commission - which would dissolve several procedural knots in the implementation of the solidarity fund.
mr president, as my predecessor mr tannock rightly pointed out, italy recently benefited from this european union solidarity fund following the terrible earthquake which struck three regions, especially emilia romagna but also lombardy and my region of veneto. we are certainly talking about one of the most effective and practical instruments for bringing about the spirit of solidarity and closeness to citizens affected by disasters, whether natural or man-made. we need these changes. we need more streamlined and transparent procedures. we need above all to make the citizens feel that europe is close to them, but unfortunately it is too often perceived as an entity incapable of meeting the concrete needs and requirements of the citizens. i voted with conviction with my political family in favour of this document and i hope that we will be able to welcome it in the same way and continue to work on this principle when my report 'strengthening european disaster response: the role of civil protection and humanitarian assistance' arrives in the house shortly.
in writing. - i share the recommendations of my colleague estaràs ferragut on the need to amend the current regulation on the european union solidarity fund, improving the efficiency and speed of the administrative procedures for its mobilisation, introducing the possibility of making advance payments to speed up the disbursement of aid, especially in the event of so-called 'slow-moving' disasters. italy has suffered two "extraordinary regional disasters" this year: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. in this connection, i believe, as the rapporteur has also requested, that the fund should also cover the 'collateral damage' caused by these events to the socioeconomic fabric, such as smes. i hope very much that the criteria for access to aid will be clarified soon.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr ferragut's report. two years after the terrible floods in veneto, parliament is finally heeding my calls and the battles fought to bring to the commission's attention the urgency of changing the way the european union solidarity fund (eusf) operates. help that comes late is help that can lose its usefulness. the veneto region has waited a year to receive the funds allocated by brussels, while those for the earthquake-stricken areas of emilia have even been threatened with being blocked. the rules of solidarity in europe and its financial instrument need to be rewritten: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the european social fund is a good one, but it is not enough to make it a priority.
in writing. − the eusf is one of the main instruments for implementing the principle of european solidarity; the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome. even with limited ambition, a review of the discipline could be useful to ensure a prompt response by the institutions, to shield governments from unfounded and recurrent initiatives dictated by political opportunism, and to strengthen the concept of european citizenship through a prompt provision, including the use of conditional advance, which translates into concrete actions for the benefit of the affected populations. we must start with the two facts that two thirds of the applications for special regional disasters have been rejected and that the ceiling of 1.5% of regional gdp is not adequate to filter or set priorities. in voting in favour of the report, i support the request that the implementation include legally binding declaratory aspects which, while taking into account the relative unpredictability of disasters, can nevertheless be triggered by a wide cascade of events, duly analysed over ten years of activity.
in writing. - i think that this report is fully acceptable and does not present any problems, and it will also facilitate the rapid allocation of funds in the event of natural disasters, thus avoiding the recurrence of the problems of disbursement of funds as in the case of the earthquake in emilia. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund is an instrument that has shown its european added value and has proven its effectiveness since it was first introduced. in this connection, i would like to highlight one of the last cases, in chronological order, in which this fund has played a decisive role for a territory suffering from the disastrous consequences of a natural disaster. i am referring to the earthquake which struck the areas of emilia-romagna and for which we were able, with considerable difficulty, to secure the funds needed for the reconstruction of those areas. in view of the improvement of the criteria for access to this fund, especially in relation to regional disasters, i believe that the proposals in the report are going in the right direction. we must think of weighting criteria which take more and more account of the scale of disasters and their frequency in the most affected regions of europe.
in writing. − over the past 20 years, natural disasters have killed around 90,000 people and caused more than €200 billion in damage. the solidarity fund is the union's main solidarity instrument. the time needed to mobilise the fund is unfortunately too long and the criteria for intervention are not very transparent. advance payments are therefore necessary to accelerate the response rate and the visibility of union support. finally, i think it is essential to amend the regulation by redefining the criteria for regional disasters in a simple, objective and transparent way.
in writing. - i have spoken on several occasions to point out some criticisms concerning the methods of access to this fund: the biggest problem is to define what are 'minor' disasters on a regional basis. often the damage caused is not "minor" at all and therefore objective criteria should be established on a regional basis to assess whether they are eligible for european support. in the past there have been instances of mismanagement by the authorities, such as the snow emergency last february, in which many southern regions wanted to be included without entitlement, thus compromising the entire application. i think that we should therefore move towards a more direct link between the regional authorities and brussels, in order to define real emergency situations, bypassing the national dimension in which they often try to sneak in without the necessary qualifications, thus penalising those who have really been affected by natural disasters. in tuscany, money for the 2011 floods in lunigiana has arrived, albeit with considerable delay: however, we are still awaiting a decision on the damage caused to the gross tonnage by the heavy rains last november.
in writing. - i welcome parliament's motion for a resolution because the european union solidarity fund (eusf) is the main instrument for demonstrating the union's solidarity action, providing important financial support to member states or regions affected by major disasters, facing a difficult situation. however, the time currently required to mobilise the fund appears to be too long and prolonged in its implementation, which is why the efficiency and speed of the administrative procedures provided for should be improved. the need is therefore to simplify the bureaucratic processes necessary to mobilise the eu instrument, in order to shorten the time - sometimes extended to over a year - between the time when the disaster occurs and the time when the member state or region in question receives aid. the administrative procedures are slow, complicated and cumbersome.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i am in favour of a commission legislative initiative which sets out appropriate rules to ensure administrative legality and the protection of citizens' rights vis-à-vis the european institutions. the growth of the union administration in recent decades, both in size and in importance, requires adequate legislation on procedural rights in the context of the union's administrative procedures. these rights can no longer be guaranteed only in the interpretative case-law of the court of justice, although the latter has played an essential role in this context. it is true that europe must be divided up into states with different legal traditions: but it is true that the solution of the encryption is undoubtedly fundamental. and we must try to achieve this and strengthen it through the treaties, namely the treaty of lisbon but also the european charter of human rights. i believe that this is a fundamental step towards a greater europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the berlinguer report on european union law on administrative procedures. the text calls on the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation defining the construction of a community case-law on administrative procedures to be applied for the management of relations between the eu institutions and bodies and citizens. i believe that this choice would help to ensure greater certainty and transparency in relations between citizens and europe.
in writing. − the report aims to provide clearer and more certain rights for citizens and businesses in their dealings with the european union administration. as the greater participation of citizens in the work of the union is one of the main objectives we are aiming to achieve, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the recommendations to the commission on administrative law because i believe that the process of european union integration must also include a single administrative law, limited to the direct administration of the eu and binding on the european institutions. this would enable clear rules to be established for citizens and legal persons, thus improving the relationship between the latter and the union administration. for these reasons, i believe that a legislative initiative by the commission is necessary to identify a core of general de minimis principles, which serve as guidelines for good administrative behaviour in the european context. such procedural rules would ensure increased levels of transparency and accountability of the european institutions, and at the same time, confidence by citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report in question, fully agreeing with its scope. the aim of the regulation is to guarantee the right to good administration through an open, efficient and independent administration based on european union law on administrative procedures. the rapporteur believes that administrative procedural law is an opportunity to strengthen the legitimacy of the european union, while providing citizens and legal persons with clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their relations with the union's administration. the aim is to ensure fair and impartial administrative procedures, based on the constitutional traditions of the different member states and linked to the principles of legality, proportionality, fairness and transparency.
in writing. − the european union's administration has grown considerably in recent decades. despite this growth, the union currently does not have comprehensive legislation on the procedural rights of citizens in administrative proceedings. administrative procedural law thus provides an opportunity to strengthen the legitimacy of the european union by providing citizens and legal persons with clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their dealings with the union administration. i therefore welcomed mr berlinguer's proposal to invite the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on european law on administrative procedures.
mr president, in the third quarter of 2011, job losses were almost twice as high as the jobs created, and unfortunately we know that this trend is set to increase, especially if we take into account the news about major restructuring in strategic sectors. between 2008 and 2011, more than 6 million jobs were lost in construction and manufacturing alone. the situation today requires companies and their employees to make the necessary changes to safeguard competitiveness and jobs: this becomes a problem for the parties concerned, especially in the late stage, when layoffs are most often expected. the positive export performance of some member states shows that success on world markets depends not only on price competitiveness but also on broader factors such as sectoral specialisation, innovation and skill levels, which enhance real competitiveness. this is precisely what the european union should be doing more of. the new cycle of economic planning is approaching and i think we should take account of the data that emerge from this report and review the investment strategy and focus on innovation and the real economy.
mr president, as many colleagues have already mentioned, unfortunately the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in the number of firms being forced to close down or to restructure their businesses at european level. in many cases, it was the latter that led management to opt for intra-european relocation. it is clear that these cases have affected employment levels in europe and in particular in italy we have had, in the last year, many striking cases, which have put many workers on the streets. the fundamental point raised in the cercas report, which deals with these hypotheses, is the call for common european regulations, which avoid competitive imbalances between countries. it is absurd to think that by differentiating legislation and, above all, by making taxation systems different, our countries, the member states, would be engaging in unfair competition, reducing employment levels considerably and thus going against the general european policies. i voted in favour of the report for these reasons.
in writing. the aim of the cercas report is to improve the protection of workers who are at risk of redundancy because of the likely failure or transfer of an undertaking. the scope of the measures proposed in the text is similar to that of the european globalisation adjustment fund, but the initiatives described by mr cercas are aimed at the launching of programmes for the preventive retraining of workers, well before the bankruptcy or transfer of the company. although i think the idea of anticipating the negative effects of company restructuring is a positive one, i think there is a real risk that some companies may feel justified in using the redundancy tool more readily than they do now, on the strength of the fact that a re-skilled worker has, on paper, less trouble relocating. for these reasons i voted to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr cercas' report on the information and consultation of workers and the management of company restructuring because, in the light of the latest developments in the italian steel industry, i find the situation of many workers in italy and in europe extremely worrying. we must work towards careful regulation of business management which protects workers and is able to keep companies competitive. the european union must be able to make its assessments by adapting them to specific cases, taking into account the human side as much as the economic balance and not relying solely on the interpretation of the law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report calling on the commission to put forward a legislative proposal to create minimum european levels of protection for workers who undergo company restructuring, because national governments do not seem to be able to deal adequately with major restructuring of international companies, which requires a european approach. european legislation is needed to take account of such restructuring and to provide for fair and balanced management of it when it occurs. today more than ever, the situation of many firms affected by the crisis calls for timely action so that the continuing and profound changes in the global landscape, which greatly increase the risk of the firm, can be addressed by limiting the risks, so that even a possible company restructuring does not necessarily have to become a cause of job loss for workers, but can be transformed into an opportunity. the commission is expected to adopt measures to protect workers and involve all the parties concerned, including the social partners.
in writing. - in mr cercas' report, parliament asks the commission to draw up a proposal for a 'legal act' on the information and consultation of workers in the event of restructuring, in order to anticipate and better manage such processes. given that change is a constant phenomenon in the lives of businesses and workers and that the ability to adapt to change is an essential element in preserving competitiveness, supporting growth and creating jobs, i believe that the institutions, by taking an integrated approach to the problem, should focus their efforts on those measures which can stimulate economic growth.
in writing. - unfortunately, the horn of africa has been subject to a series of conflicts for decades, due to its natural resources, fossil fuels and water, and the overwhelming demand of some oil and gas producing states to gain infrastructure access to other states or to the sea. in addition, a severe famine crisis due to drought has worsened the situation in recent years, causing a terrible humanitarian crisis affecting over 12 million people, including many children. i am in favour of the eu strategy for the horn of africa, which aims to restore the socio-political situation in the region and to make these peoples aware of the great economic potential they possess. it is necessary, however, to explain to future political bodies that european financial assistance is conditional on the achievement of specific objectives, such as programmes to avert future humanitarian crises and to restore the development of many strategic sectors.
in writing. - the horn of africa is today one of the most food insecure regions in the world. millions of people living in the region are undernourished and at risk of famine, as well as living in health standards considered to be among the lowest in the world. governance is almost entirely absent, and human insecurity and food insecurity in particular are causing serious humanitarian crises in the region. we must acknowledge that the international community has not yet been able to take preventive measures to deal with the issues of human security, drought and famine in this area. that is why i think that the path of aid and peacekeeping is a two-track road that must be pursued more intensively. i therefore welcome some of the measures contained in mr tannock's report, such as my call on the commission to consider providing aid and support to all african countries which have made military commitments to maintain peace in the horn of africa. in particular, i very much welcome the eu's decision to provide additional support to amisom so that it can fulfil its mandate and reach a total military force of 17 731 units, as authorised by the united nations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it makes a clear assessment of the eu’s engagement in the horn of africa, which is one of the world’s poorest regions and one of those most lacking in governance. particular attention should be given to the fact that the international community has failed to take any preventive steps to address the issues of human security, drought and famine in the region. the horn of africa has a long history of conflicts and it is important to bear in mind that sustainable development cannot be achieved in an environment characterised by armed conflicts and unstable government institutions. at the same time, any credible strategy must acknowledge that poverty and underdevelopment operate as conflict-generating factors. for all these reasons, the vicious circle of insecurity, poverty and bad governance can only be successfully addressed through a comprehensive approach.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the tannock report on the european strategy for the horn of africa. the horn of africa is notoriously one of the most politically unstable regions on the planet: the text outlines possible community measures which would help to improve the socioeconomic dynamics of a geopolitically extremely complex situation. the report stresses three actions which it considers to be priorities over the others: the european union is also committed to combating terrorism, supporting the united nations in humanitarian operations and securing international trade routes affected by piracy.
in writing. - i believe that this proposal deserves support from a number of angles. first of all, the objective of pacifying one of the most unstable areas on the planet cannot but be shared. the following proposals should therefore be implemented: building strong and accountable political structures in the region; aim at the resolution of armed conflicts; to intervene to promote economic growth and reduce poverty and foster political and economic cooperation between the countries of the horn of africa. for all these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european union's action in the horn of africa because this situation of instability, which has been going on for some time now, has consequences for all the countries in the region and for the whole continent. a comprehensive approach to achieving sustainable development in the region is essential, as the horn of africa is a region where criminal activity, including terrorism and piracy, is very intense due to extreme poverty and bad governance. moreover, the continuation of this critical situation could have repercussions on relations between the countries of the region and the rest of the continent, in the first place, and consequently also with other actors, including the european union itself. it would be better to put an end to the continuing violations of human rights, such as in eritrea, rather than to the restrictions on freedom of opinion and expression which are an obstacle to the process of democratization in the horn of africa. it is therefore important to implement a programme of democratic development accompanied by political dialogue, so that a cycle of lasting peace and stability can be achieved.
in writing. - coup d'états, civil wars and, in recent years, piracy have drawn the eu's attention to the horn of africa. the search for peace, stability and the will to create the basis for the development of these countries is the driving force behind the solidarity of the european union, which must look beyond its strategic interests and help this region. i support the eu's initiatives to ensure the rule of law, to deal with security and stability issues, humanitarian aid and the development of a democratic system. respect for human rights and the end of conflict are the main objectives of the entire horn of africa, which needs help and not western intervention.
in writing. - i have expressed a favourable opinion on the report in question as it welcomes the eu strategy for the horn of africa and in particular its comprehensive approach based on addressing issues of security, stability, respect for the rule of law and the guarantee of a process to ensure the application of the law, as well as an independent judicial system. the region has a long history of conflict, poverty and underdevelopment; sustainable development cannot be achieved in a climate of tension, poverty, armed conflict, and unstable government institutions. this prolonged instability in the horn of africa also affects the security of neighbouring countries and the whole continent. the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa supports some of the key points on which to build democratic, robust and accountable political structures; these include cooperation with countries in the region, interaction between regional and international actors and organisations, and support for interventions to promote economic growth and reduce poverty by addressing the basic needs of the population.
in writing. - the long history of conflict in the horn of africa has made it one of the poorest regions in the world, with very poor health standards, severe food insecurity and a very high mortality rate. the prolonged instability in this region has also had an impact on the security of neighbouring countries, which are also affected by conflict, poverty and underdevelopment. i am therefore in favour of measures to combat internal conflicts, terrorism and piracy which, by strengthening security in the horn of africa, can promote better development cooperation and the consequent gradual elimination of poverty and famine.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the preservation of the planet's genetic diversity, a crucial element of sustainable agriculture and food security, is one of the millennium development goals that has been mentioned many times. a phenomenon to be fought in this field unfortunately growing exponentially is certainly the so-called biopiracy, a really odious practice because it occurs when biological resources are taken in a way that is sometimes illegal or at least irregular but not only from local or indigenous communities and then patented but the revenues generated from this withdrawal do not benefit the countries to which these resources belong. so fighting bio-piracy is a major challenge that we have to face, because these practices are totally contrary to the commitments we have made to eradicate poverty and to protect biodiversity. i think it is important to stress, with our vote, that the fight against poverty in the developing countries also involves, in a very concrete way, issues which are only apparently technical and legal.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs grèze on 'aspects relating to the development of intellectual property rights in genetic resources'. the text urges the european union to take action to combat the phenomena of 'biopiracy', an increasingly widespread practice in which industrialised countries appropriate, by patenting them, biological resources belonging to local communities in developing countries, without any economic return for them. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu is able to meet the challenges of the global financial crisis.
in writing. - the report by mrs grèze has the merit of bringing to the attention of the european institutions the problem of 'biopiracy', which is difficult to identify legally. genetic diversity is a heritage to be preserved and is a good that is now increasingly enjoyed by so-called emerging countries. however, precisely because of the phenomenon of 'biopiracy', the beneficiaries of biodiversity are the already industrialised countries. in this sense, the proposal to endorse the nagoya protocol should be welcomed. the protocol on the right of access to genetic resources and traditional knowledge concerns the obligation to provide benefits in return for access to genetic resources and traditional knowledge and also provides for the obligation to obtain prior informed consent before access.
in writing. - i believe that the european union must take action to counter the bio-piracy activities carried out by multinational companies to the detriment of developing countries. very often, these companies exploit plants with medicinal properties and traditional remedies originating in these countries, without sharing in any way the profits. patenting their medicinal traditions means blocking their economic development, which is clearly contrary to the objectives of the european union itself.
in writing. − the protection and conservation of genetic diversity is a key element in achieving the millennium development goals. genetic resources are essential, above all, for the sustainability of agriculture and food security. moreover, genetic diversity is one of the main components for the survival of species and the preservation of the ecosystem. it should also be stressed that the genetic resources of countries rich in biodiversity make a significant contribution to pharmaceutical research and development. unfortunately, it has been shown that intellectual property rights (ipr) significantly hinder access to medicines in poor countries. i am also in favour of fighting against bio-piracy, which is a major challenge facing the eu, as these practices are contrary to the commitments made to eradicate poverty and protect biodiversity, as well as to the principle of policy coherence for development enshrined in article 208 of the lisbon treaty.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr chancellor, to discuss the future of europe means to answer two questions: is the european social model a burden or a resource in dealing with globalisation? and can its defence and revival be left to the individual states or does it require the construction of a genuine democratic government of the euro? our group gives a positive answer to both questions and we are glad that your words go in the same direction: the european union is not only a europe of stability, but also of growth, solidarity and democracy. overcoming blind austerity does not mean returning to fiscal irresponsibility but working alongside budgetary discipline to define european policies in co-decision for growth and social inclusion. this is why we need a european budget worthy of the name, based on own resources. i very much appreciated your comments on this and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, which allows for countercyclical policies and does not penalise public investment. this requires a strong social pillar, starting with the implementation and adequate financing of the european youth guarantee which works so well in austria. mr chancellor, thank you for coming and for your words: we are confident that in the coming months the battle for the definition of a european social pact and for a genuine and democratic economic and monetary union will be able to count on its support.
the agenda calls into question the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in mali.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, france's military intervention in mali marked the beginning of an operation which had been in the making for some time. president hollande has, in this respect, broken all delays, putting into practice what is now inevitably the only way to restore balance. but now we need stronger action from the european union: the problem of the sahel and the presence of islamic fundamentalism and terrorism cannot be tackled by fragmented action on the initiative of individual countries. the stakes are high and the outcome of this operation must also prefigure the future scenarios in which we will have to work, to bring greater democracy and stability to geopolitical realities that for centuries have been a land of conquest and that today have become the scene of human rights violations and cultural barbarism. for these reasons, it is necessary to coordinate and agree on an action plan, which brings together present and future and involves all the actors concerned as quickly as possible.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, we have heard a complete spectrum of views, for which i am extremely grateful, but i want people first of all just to rewind the clock a little and to look back on what was happening a year and two years ago, because it would be completely wrong to suggest that somehow this has come upon us and that no thought and strategy has gone into it. we have in fact been looking for a long time at how to support this part of the world. you might not like the word ‘strategy’ but actually you need one. if you talk to any military commander on the ground – and i have spoken to many – and if you talk to any military planning team – and i have spoken to many – the first thing that they will say to you is that it is not enough to think of military action, important though that may be. what you always need is a political, developmental, strategic approach to what you can do. with the support of all member states, which we have built, with the support of the african union and with the support of the united nations, we have pulled together the creation of a strategy which looks at the different elements of what you need to do. you need to find ways to actually put in place a development plan. this part of the world has got many challenges. there are people who are hungry, there are children who are not educated, and there are communities that do not see any representative of anything that we would vaguely call a government. you have the development necessity of needing to build from every aspect of life something that people can actually have, in order to create the circumstances where you can get some kind of security for that dimension. the second thing you have to do is to build the political structure that is going to bring together the countries of that region to tackle some of the security challenges that they face. we have had meetings with the foreign ministers and with many officials from all of the countries of the sahel to get them to work together to develop that strategy too. you need to be able to be sure that you are working with them. this is not about turning up in a country and doing things to people. we do not do that. we work on a strategy that has at its heart the desire to see that it is owned by the people and the governments of the region and is supported in this context, with african ownership for the security strategy that needs to be set in place. no one has ever suggested that we should do anything other than that. if they did suggest it, they would be wrong, because that is what we have done and that is what we have built and pulled together. now what we face is a sudden offensive, an offensive that actually did take people by surprise. i am afraid the world is full of surprises. we can think about the last two or three years and reflect on areas that, yes, we might have thought could be volatile, but we did not know when and how and in which way. this is no exception to that. at that point, a member state was asked to give support. we have been in constant touch with france throughout that whole process, as they took their decision on what they should do. we do not have a european defence force. what we have are the groupings of defence ministers, foreign ministers and the intergovernmental work that they do. that is the structure that we work with. that is the structure that we use to try to support these situations and support member states. it is why i have convened the foreign affairs council as quickly as i can to bring together 27 foreign ministers, as well as the malian foreign minister and the military representatives of the eu, so that we can talk about how best to show solidarity with what france is doing, but also how best to begin to push further forward on this strategy. one of the key elements of this was to support the malian army, which needed training help. the structures may take too long – i am not disputing that – but they are the structures that i have been given, that we have been given in the service, that either have been determined through regulations or determined through the intergovernmental methods and, yes, i would like to see some of them speeded up. we have managed to speed this one up rather dramatically, because a lot of the planning was done. but if you are going to send a training mission to another country, you also have to have it ready on the ground, and that means working with the military forces and the government on the ground. so it is not always that we are delayed, it is that actually the recipients need to be ready to receive us. that mission is specifically designed to help the malian army be able to cope with the situation it finds itself in. there are elements of that training which we can start even now, even though they are engaged directly in trying to secure part of the country. it is a really important mission and it is never to be underestimated how important it is. but it is part of a much bigger programme of how you bring political security to that part of the world. but please, honourable members, do not underestimate the challenges of what is happening in that part of the world and do not underestimate the amount of work that is going on to try and secure a political future for the people of that part of the world. this is the european union in operation. it may not be what all of you or some of you would want. you may want to have in reserve a force that can go in. what you saw was a member state responding very quickly, very effectively, and which is now being supported by other member states, and we will see that solidarity coming into action. it was responding to a situation that people did not predict, and did not know about, so it has actually been a very, very rapid deployment. all of that has been in conjunction with us in brussels, in trying to pull together and make sure we are supporting it: additional humanitarian aid going in, additional development support being prepared, support for the government to be able to cope, training for their army, support for the other countries at risk in the region – remember we already have a programme in niger – and all of that sahel strategy coming into action. i hope that what you will see is a much better response from the european union than you would have seen five years ago, but a building of that response, so we can get better and better at how we do it. i end by expressing my solidarity with france and of course we think about the soldiers fighting tonight, the malian army soldiers, our french forces and we of course remember those who have lost their lives in that conflict.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes a joint debate on the report by leonardo domenici, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies (com (2011) 0747 - c7-0420/2011 - 2011/0361 (cod)) (a7-0221/2012), and the report by leonardo domenici, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/65/ec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and directive 2011/61/eu on alternative investment fund managers as regards the excessive reliance on credit ratings (com (2011) 0477 - c7-046/2011 - 2011/0361 (cod)) (com (2011-04-0719 (a7-0220/2012)).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you to take note of the fact that i would like to use my speaking time as follows: i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done in this area. we have come to this debate and the vote in the house on the third regulation on credit rating agencies and the related directive after a long, complicated and arduous journey. if we consider the complexity of this process, the obstacles encountered and the initial distance, very marked and wide, with the council's positions, we can say that the conclusion we have reached is certainly positive, although, of course, some of us would have preferred to approve more incisive and more impactful measures, while we have seen strong attempts to limit and reduce some of the proposed reform measures, particularly because of the conservative will expressed by the council. i am referring in particular to important and innovative proposals put forward by the commission, such as the civil liability of credit rating agencies and the obligation to rotate, i.e. to change credit rating agencies by the customer every three years, proposals which, thanks to the commitment of the european parliament, have been avoided and the principle of the regulation has been maintained, although it has to accept a reduction in their scope and the change of some significant aspects. this is a paradoxical situation, in my view. we would very likely not have had this new rating agency regulation, the third in just over three years, if it hadn't been for the sovereign debt rating controversy. but when it came to getting down to the nitty-gritty, proposing new measures and taking concrete action, many governments pulled the handbrake and even backed off. yet it was the same governments, the same national and european politicians who attacked the rating agencies with force, holding them explicitly responsible for encouraging sovereign debt speculation by their choices, their statements and their behaviour which they considered to be very irresponsible. why this contradiction? unless our governments and the council are suffering from some kind of stockholm syndrome, i believe there are two main reasons: the first is that the rating agencies are very effective lobbyists. the second is that, all in all, sometimes it's helpful to have someone to criticize and attack when things are going wrong and there are problems. but the game is risky and the tendency to leave things as they are can lead to the consolidation of the dependence of the public institutions themselves on the judgments of the rating agencies. however, with this new regulation we are also making progress - and not just progress - on the question of sovereign debts, thanks in particular to the contribution of the european parliament. the establishment of a provisional timetable for unsolicited ratings on sovereign debt; the prohibition of statements intended to influence the policies to be implemented and pursued by governments; greater transparency and accountability in the rating methodologies used and, above all, the launching of a process to achieve an internal assessment by the european union of the creditworthiness of the member states and, in the future, the possibility of establishing a european public agency for the rating of sovereign debt, are all important new features of the new regulation, which are fully consistent with the underlying inspiration of this measure, which is to promote internal ratings, to have a plurality of reliable and comparable voices at the service of investors and thus to challenge the oligopolistic condition that has characterised the rating offer to date. to all this must be added measures to overcome all the rules in european legislation which require reference to external ratings, and even more precise rules on conflict of interest and the quality of the rating produced, in addition to the rotations and civil liability already mentioned. the measure we are discussing today is therefore going in the right direction but will still require a lot of work in the implementation phase. we need to check for any unintended consequences and achieve the objectives which we have set out in the regulation which are aimed, along with many other measures which have been discussed and will be discussed in this parliament, at reforming the markets and having a more transparent, more accountable and more democratic financial system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the three great american sisters have been able to do as they wished, without anyone holding them accountable for any mistakes they might have made. mistakes that were many: according to some estimates, since 2008, half of the assessments have been wrong. the point is that their decisions can have a profound impact not only on markets but on the entire political and economic stability of a country. there is also a prosecutor in italy who is investigating any wrongdoing by these gentlemen. i would like to stress, however, a point which is of great concern not only to me but also to our intelligence services: china is gaining more and more ground with its rating agency, dagong, whose reference figure, i'm not in italy, is a person we all know well, the former president of the european commission romano prodi; commissioner barnier will also know him. i would not like us to jump from the frying pan to the fire, because the chinese worry me much more than the americans, because they have specific interests and great financial availability. perhaps it is time for europe to wake up and not be late in such a sensitive and strategic area.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank each and every one of the members who have spoken on a serious and important subject and, moreover, generally for supporting, in substance and form, the approach taken by your colleague mr domenici, and i join in his thanks. mrs vicky ford is no longer here, but i did not understand - i wanted to say this publicly - the point of her speech. i would like to remind you that what i have been doing with you, with the council, for the last three years is to build the single rule book for the whole of the european union and the single market. only one single rule book including uk. one, and we are working on regular compromises with the uk and other countries to achieve a regulatory transparency rule that applies to all players, all products, all financial sectors and, of course, it is very important that the main financial sector, which is the city, is included and participates in this effort to regulate intelligently. it's not about the eurozone. we are talking about the rating of products, sometimes of states, of companies, present in the whole of the single market, with systemic consequences. these ratings, when they are done well or when they are done badly, have consequences throughout the single market. it's not about the eurozone. and it is so true, as mr sánchez presedo has just said, that we are working on a specific request, not from the european union, but from the g20, which concerns the whole world. there, let's not get the debate wrong. it is another question whether the united kingdom should, as i personally wish, remain and participate in the european union or not. but that's another question. i would not like to see this rating agency problem used to open another debate. mr bodu, who was the first to speak, as i was, stressed the importance of establishing a genuine system of civil liability. it is very difficult to deny that there is liability for those who rate financial products and thus contribute to the judgment of investors. this is a point which mr lamberts has already made. that is why i am glad that this system of civil liability is introduced by the text which has been submitted to you. i thank mrs wikström, mrs mcguinness who spoke earlier, mr mitchell, mr kelly too, for highlighting the good cooperation between the commission, parliament, but also the new irish presidency, which is committed to moving forward many of the issues on our financial regulatory agenda. i also thank mrs gáll-pelcz for her support and i would remind her that the rigorous timetable proposed in this text on sovereign debt ratings should contribute to stability, to a proper assessment of risks, to what mr giegold just called an economic timetable, and not, as has sometimes been felt, a political timetable. mrs regner, earlier, i quote, mentioned the need to change the rules of the game. that's exactly what we're doing. perhaps we could have gone further, as i suggested, but clearly, honestly and objectively, the text before you will require a major change in behaviour. it's a bit of a revolutionary move. and i would add that this is in addition to the supervision which is now exercised through the european securities and markets authority (esma) over all the rating agencies. these are real changes. i also say this to mrs matias, who was worried earlier, or to mr martin. these are real changes. these are not the first changes since the crisis, since this is the third regulation. and these regulations, i say to mr fox, are complementary to each other. they don't disturb each other. we are consolidating the system of regulation and public oversight of rating agencies to have a fair assessment of risks and less instability. mr klinz himself pointed out earlier the role of the rating agencies in amplifying the crisis and, at times, in miscalculating risks. we want to achieve, together with this text, a serious risk assessment, greater stability and good supervision. i think that this text, which you have worked so hard on, will help. i want to say to mr giegold, to mr feio, to many of you who have spoken about the future, about future developments, that, as you ask us in this road map, mrs berès, we will work seriously, of course, to evaluate these three recent legislations on the agencies, but to go further. we are going to work on this detailed, precise study of complementary or alternative solutions, either by an independent rating agency - it is not a question of brussels rating, i say this to mr zijlstra, let us not make a caricature of things - or, as mr tremosa has reminded us, by a foundation. we are working on the basis of the present basis for the implementation of all these texts, their proper implementation, and we will work seriously and rapidly on other complementary and alternative solutions. but in the meantime, all agencies working in europe - there are now almost 23 registered with esma - will be subject to this new regulation. and then we will continue to work, i repeat, on additional steps. mr ashley fox was just referring to these laws. of course, the agencies are not the cause of the crisis, but it is fair to say that they have contributed to bubbles, they have increased volatility and instability, and that is what this series of three complementary pieces of legislation since the 2008 crisis is trying to address: a first regulation on the authorisation and registration of agencies and the reduction of the risks of conflicts of interest, a second regulation on supervision, which is now effective with esma, and, finally, this third regulation, which tackles the problems of rating dependence, market diversity, which is too concentrated in too few hands, and better, more regulated sovereign debt rating, which still fights against the new risks of conflicts of interest. mr klute was referring to the rotation which, in his view, should have been more ambitious. i know that this rotation is limited, as this text proposes, to a point which is the re-titrisation. this is a first test to put the system to the test and the commission will, as i have said, consider in 2015 whether this rule should be extended to other financial products. i would like to thank you again, the presidency and your rapporteur, who has worked quickly, well and very concretely on this new regulation, which is in the general interest of financial market stability.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank all members for their very kind words of welcome and to say i have really enjoyed this lively debate. i think it shows a wide range of ideas and views amongst members which is very refreshing. i would like to thank particularly again mr barnier and the rapporteur, mr domenici, for the excellent work which has been put into arriving at this package, which i consider to be extremely necessary. i think, on the basis of this debate, i can say that i am very confident of support from this house in favour of this legislative package. i strongly believe that european action is necessary and that it will once again contribute to positive developments in the overall investment environment. i think one of the key challenges for us is to rebuild confidence throughout the european economy – not just the eurozone, but all of the european economy. i think that the change which is proposed – phase three, if you like, in a three-step process, or at least three steps so far, is needed in the context of the wider objective of securing stronger economic growth and increased financial stability, which, irrespective of what end of the political spectrum we come from, we all want to see and we must all work together to achieve. i do not propose to go through all of the comments and questions because of time limitations and because commissioner barnier has so eloquently addressed a number of them already, but there are a number of issues which have arisen repeatedly. the question of a european credit rating agency has been one that has been raised again and again. i think it is clear that there are a variety of views in terms of firstly the merits of whether it should happen and secondly the modalities. that is perhaps a question for another day. some of the issues which have been raised i can concur with. mr fox talked about the need to give the measures which have already been introduced and those contained in this package some opportunity to actually work – for us to see their impact on the markets and to see the effects. i would very strongly agree with that. we have come a long way in terms of regulating the financial markets in the last two or three years, and as we introduce new measures we have to assess their value and their positive contribution. however, he also suggested that credit rating agencies did not cause the euro crisis. i think it is fair to say that there were many contributing factors to the euro crisis, and one of them was the miscalculations by certain credit rating agencies who failed to factor in the underlying weaknesses in a range of european economies, including my own, so i think that point is perhaps a little bit general and a little bit sweeping and not necessarily fully accurate. i think mr feio mentioned the need for better knowledge and better understanding and calculation of sovereign debt and of other indicators. a point that we should always remember is that the commission has a really important role in this and i suppose in a sense this connects to the point which was made by mr mitchell, which is the value of public bodies, public agencies and indeed the eu institutions in this context. the role of the commission in collecting, processing and publishing data on the economic, financial and fiscal situation and the performance in all member states is hugely valuable and hugely important and can and should be used by investors. i think there is scope in the future for an even greater role for the commission in that respect. so that is just an important point to note. a number of contributors, including ms ford, mentioned the imperative that we do not try to gag credit rating agencies. i do not think this is a question of gagging anybody. rather, it is about trying to ensure that we have a broad spectrum of views and opinions that are founded on facts and that we mitigate against a monopoly situation, that we have variety and choice within the european market. that is extremely important. i am a strong believer in the market, i think that the market is a very dynamic and important force in generating growth and contributing to our recovery, but the idea that the market should not have parameters or that we cannot put in place some form of regulation is really not accurate. in fact there is an onus and a responsibility on us as legislators to put in place parameters, and we have to always be guided by the principle that the market is there to serve citizens and not the other way round. citizens are not there to serve the market, and that is an important consideration. i believe in freedoms, i believe in the free market, but like freedom of speech, it is not an unfettered right: there are also responsibilities. when it comes to freedom of speech we talk about responsibilities in terms of upholding reputation and we accept the need for libel and defamation laws, and i think the same applies when we talk about the market. that is just a point which i consider to be important i have many other points but i know that i am running out of time. i simply want to say that i would like to thank all members, particularly the rapporteur, mr domenici, and commissioner barnier for the very important and time-consuming work that has gone into these negotiations. i am absolutely certain that the outcome is most definitely in the wider public interest and will benefit all european citizens long into the future.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in this debate, including mr morganti, who comes from an italian town where many chinese people live and is therefore somewhat obsessed with them and sees them everywhere, even in the rating agencies, perhaps with the role of the grey eminence of romano prodi. just two observations. the first is that i would just like to say to the colleagues who have expressed criticism of this regulation and the proposed public rating systems - especially to colleagues from the political forces in the united kingdom - that if the rating agencies had not made glaring errors and had not covered up at least questionable market practices, there would have been no need for this initiative and this new proposal. and commissioner barnier is right: this is not just the eurozone! the october 2010 report, "principles for reducing reliance on credit rating agency ratings", is from the financial stability board, and that's where our thinking has been taken from and developed. the second observation. as mr berès rightly said, this is a milestone - and i repeat the remarks of mr lamberts - we need to continue to look at an alternative model. it's not easy, but it's a job we have to keep doing. the very fact that we have promoted this discussion about the rating agencies, in my opinion, has helped to create a greater critical awareness even in markets, which no longer take what the agencies say as absolute truth. i would like to thank jean-paul gauzès, wolf klinz, sven giegold, ashley fox and marisa matias for their contribution as shadow rapporteurs. a word of thanks to mr pascal canfin, who made his contribution before taking up his responsibilities in the government of the french republic; i would like to pay particular tribute to miguel portas, a colleague who started working with us and who is sadly no longer with us. and finally, to commissioner barnier, for cooperation and mutual trust, to the cypriot presidency, to my colleagues and assistant, giusy viola, and to my friend vincent bouquillon: i tell them, the job is not done yet.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, let me thank the rapporteur, sylvie goulard, and the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for the report in response to the commission’s green paper on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds. the report addresses several important issues related to stability bonds and stimulates discussion by suggesting a road map for the gradual implementation of stability bonds. let me comment on these issues and explain the rationale of the commission’s work in this regard. i shall also make three points. firstly, this debate stems from a real need in the real economy. while growth is still sluggish and unemployment high, we have seen a certain calming of the markets recently. this has helped to restore confidence and pave the way for a prospective recovery. nevertheless, the euro and emu remain under challenge. work must therefore continue to address the current challenges through smart fiscal consolidation and through reforms that enable a sustainable recovery for growth and jobs. but, in order to anchor expectations on the long-term perspective of the euro to ensure its sustainability, we need to pursue the profound rebuilding of economic and monetary union. the commission presented a road map to this end in our ‘blueprint for a deep and genuine emu’ in late november 2012. secondly, within this process of completing deepening the emu, common debt issuance can potentially play an important role. in our blueprint, we raise the prospect of common debt issuance, including the possibility of a european redemption fund and/or eurobills in the medium term, and building on that towards a more complete framework and a full fiscal and economic union in the long term. the objective and rationale of stability bonds would be the stabilisation of sovereign debt markets and the creation of a new deep and liquid bond market, as ms goulard underlined. but for the benefits to be achieved, it is indispensable that the risks of moral hazard are addressed first. therefore, a further reinforced economic governance is necessary. this should involve enhanced budgetary surveillance and further sharing of fiscal sovereignty, starting with the adoption of the two-pack. the guiding principle remains: there can be no further mutualisation without deeper integration. thirdly, progressive integration towards a full banking, fiscal and economic union will require parallel steps towards a political union with reinforced democratic legitimacy and accountability. in a more fundamental sense, the debate about stability bonds and economic governance is about whether and how much deeper integration will be needed to reach these objectives. it is about the very nature of the european union, or at least, of the eurozone. finally, any progress or road map towards common issuance must obviously build on broad political acceptance and support from all participating governments and from civil society at large. therefore, much more work would need to be done to credibly and convincingly address the concerns of those governments and parts of the civil society that are currently not yet convinced of common debt issuance and its merits.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after a year of difficult negotiations, we are finally about to vote on a report which should give fresh impetus to the current discussions on strengthening economic policies within the european union. the legal affairs committee, of which i was rapporteur for an opinion, reached a position not far removed from that of the committee responsible and of mrs goulard as early as may last year. the opinion, adopted almost unanimously, considered that the total replacement of national issues by common european bonds was the best possible option presented by the commission in the long term. in view of this, certain preliminary steps are obviously necessary to ensure not only the feasibility of the introduction of stability bonds but also their sustainability in the political and economic future of the union. only a sound legal framework will ensure the necessary stability for financial markets in a manner compatible with the treaties. this should be accompanied by conditions necessary to reduce so-called moral hazards or system abuses, thereby strengthening fiscal discipline and paving the way for other measures that constitute and contribute to market stability and sovereign debt sustainability. as already noted in the legal affairs committee, the possible introduction of stability bonds does not depend solely on technical premises, but on the political will to create the necessary conditions for the achievement of a more ambitious objective: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is on this perspective, not just on the stability bonds, that we shall be voting tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european economic and monetary union was built on the german model and is therefore well suited to this and a few other realities. many countries, including italy, have found themselves with unsustainable constraints and very little scope for action. the case of public debt financing is a clear example of this: it is not acceptable that a european country which is already in difficulty should be forced to pay much higher amounts than its peers in europe in order to be able to refinance itself. in recent months the differential between the yields of securities, the famous spread, has helped to bring down the government in italy and strongly condition its future policies. stability bonds may be a cure for the 'euro disease' and that is why the german doctor is adamant in opposing the issue of common bonds: the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. but if you have agreed to build something together, you must now take responsibility for it, otherwise it is better that we go our separate ways.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this debate and discussion are important, not least because the exceptional nature of the crisis we are experiencing has led us to rethink many of the foundations on which the european union is based, in the common objective of improving the economic and financial architecture in order to move towards a genuine economic and monetary union. i would like to make a few comments on this, because there is nothing worse than ideologising eurobonds. i am not a socialist, but i belong to a school of thought which embraces eurobonds, because if we even begin to compare and ideologise certain things, i believe we will never achieve a new economic architecture. the work that has been done is therefore important and i also very much appreciated the speech by mrs lulling, a correct speech, which highlighted the criticisms that also exist: no one can hide behind a finger and say that eurobonds are the european union's panacea. i'm not going to. we are well aware that there are legal problems and problems connected with the treaty. we must confront ourselves with this, so as to avoid setting up a discourse of influence on the economic problems of some countries which are not moving in the right direction. i think this is the comparison we should make: is there a question of influence? is there any possibility of changing some of the legal issues? we must move on, otherwise we risk being caught in the conflict between those who are for and those who are against, ideologising the problem and, moreover, nationalising it. it's very fashionable today to think that a certain political party is populist: it is time for us to make a qualitative leap together, for ourselves, for europe and for future generations.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the duty to thank the secretariat and all the shadow rapporteurs, because this was a meeting between decent people who have pursued the concept of the common good, avoiding ideological prejudices, and because we believe that the situation in the european union today is quite worrying. our economies are still in crisis and the downward spiral is still lurking. the crisis has had a disastrous economic impact, causing serious imbalances in national public finances, while widening divergences between member states. although gdp growth is expected to pick up this year, the short-term outlook remains precarious. the financial crisis is turning into a social crisis. just look at the unemployment figures: we're up to 11%. the situation calls for urgent measures: europe needs to grow again. the progress made in the new european economic governance is significant. the six-pack and the european semester have fostered a greater effort in fiscal consolidation, ensuring better macroeconomic conditions and a more stable financial situation. but that 's not enough . the process of adopting reforms must be accelerated: the two-pack is the case, as commissioner rehn pointed out earlier, also for other types of procedures, and we must achieve a banking union, which is a necessary reform for greater financial stability in the european union. other ways of managing and resolving the economic crisis should also be explored in order to minimise the impact on the real economy, although greater sustainability of public finances is undoubtedly the first step towards returning to growth. the consolidation of public budgets is a necessary condition for the improvement of the european economic situation. this consolidation must be done in such a way as to have the least possible impact on european citizens and businesses. the report therefore stresses the importance of consolidation based more on reducing expenditure than on increasing taxation. this reduction refers to all categories of unproductive expenditure, to all waste, especially that of the public administration, and to the inefficiencies of the various levels of government. the importance of maintaining all production costs, with investments in research, development and education, remains paramount. finally, effective action against tax evasion is needed, which is why consolidation must be implemented by cutting unproductive public spending rather than by raising taxes. this should be considered only marginally and only in the event that the cut in expenditure is not sufficient. up to now, raising taxes has been the easiest solution for some national governments, with the aim of reducing the amount of debt in the shortest possible time. but that only accelerated the recession. it is therefore necessary to review the measures taken to reduce the negative impact. however, consolidation alone is not enough: in addition to fiscal consolidation, national governments need to initiate structural reforms to foster a process of economic growth in line with the objectives we have set ourselves in the current europe 2020 growth strategy. the labour market must be improved by reducing taxation and the business environment to facilitate business activity, recovering the competitiveness lost in recent years and increasing the share of investment that can stimulate euro productivity. excessive austerity has displaced household consumption and slowed down firm output, marking a slowdown in internal market activity.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, let me again thank members for a very serious and substantive debate, which is in line with the seriousness of the subject we are discussing. the high level of public debt will be a key issue, if not the key issue, in the current decade. as i said in my introductory remarks as a comment on the report, public finances in the european union are gradually improving, and so, therefore, is market confidence in governments’ economic policies. the situation varies substantially across countries. this is why the commission applies a differentiated approach to consolidation, taking into account the respective challenges of each and every member state when determining the required fiscal adjustment effort. some members have referred to the question of fiscal multipliers in their speeches. i recall that hoang ngoc and several other members referred to this issue and to recent studies by the international monetary fund: the first one in october and a revised one in december by olivier blanchard, the chief economist, and daniel leigh. i want to say a few things about this quite briefly. first we agree with the imf that the fiscal multipliers are likely to be larger than usual when households are credit-constrained and monetary policy is already accommodated. we also agree, importantly, that fiscal multipliers vary across countries, across time and across economic contexts. from this standpoint, i want to particularly focus on three issues where the analyses and conclusions by the imf and the commission have converged, a fact that may have been lost in the controversy which has surrounded this issue in the debates involving economists and policy-makers. the first is that multipliers are as much about the growth effect of fiscal consolidation as that of fiscal stimulus. both the commission and the imf have found – although to a different extent, owing to the different country samples taken – that the most significant episode of understatement of the multipliers was for 2010, when most countries were implementing fiscal stimulus measures. there are good economic reasons why measures which are announced as temporary and are credible will have a more pronounced effect on growth. conversely, subsequent consolidation takes the form of permanent measures and the effect on growth is likely to be more subdued. second, multipliers are about the incremental effect of fiscal policy on growth. evidence that larger consolidations may have produced unanticipated growth shortfalls does not mean that reversing consolidation would have resulted in better growth outcomes. a lack of credible consolidation, particularly for countries at risk of losing market access, would have resulted in such a high rise in risk premiums as to offset or outweigh the benefits of a more lenient fiscal stance. in their most recent paper blanchard and leigh themselves very clearly cautioned against interpreting their findings as a call for reversing the course of fiscal policy followed since the crisis. i shall give you an example. think of italy in the autumn of 2011, say between september and december 2011. if italy, whose fiscal policy was already being questioned, had further relaxed its fiscal targets then it would have seen a very substantial rise in its already high interest rates, which would essentially have led to the end of sovereignty in italy. it really depends on the context, and varies across time, and we cannot have one general rule governing the conduct of fiscal policy in all circumstances. my final point is that there is empirical evidence, based on serious academic research, that public debt levels become a drag on growth if they get too high. debt levels in the euro area, especially in some euro area member states, are certainly too high. so the alternative of leaving debt at those elevated levels would also depress growth. we have to recall that public debt in the european union has risen from around 60% of gdp before the crisis five years ago to around 90% this year and next year. it is widely acknowledged that when public debt levels rise above 90% or 100%, they tend to have a negative impact on economic dynamism, which translates into low growth for many years. that is why consistent and carefully calibrated fiscal consolidation remains necessary in europe. i want to finish by saying that, in this context, there has been a lot of discussion about whether we should have nominal targets or focus on the structural effort. we apply a country-specific differentiated approach to fiscal consolidation, and each country’s consolidation effort is specified in so-called ‘structural terms’, which means focusing on the medium-term budgetary objective to reduce debt, and thus on the structural sustainability of public finances over the medium term. this implies removing the effects of the business cycle and one of the measures on the budget, and it means if growth deteriorates in an unexpected manner a country may be given extra time to correct its excessive deficit, provided it has delivered the agreed structural fiscal effort. such decisions were taken last year, 2012, for spain, portugal and greece. nevertheless, let us not forget that our level of public debt is very elevated. that is why we simply have to work with consistency towards the steady consolidation of our public finances and towards sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the members who have contributed to the preparation of this report, the shadow rapporteurs and the members who have spoken today, because i think they are very interesting speeches. some colleagues have also made interesting comments on a whole series of proposed amendments, which were then accepted by compromise. but commissioner rehn is right: we cannot let our guard down, because the crisis is not over. the debate is still open and the criticisms of the use of the word 'medicine' for the disease are justified. let 's be careful . many times the drugs are worse than the disease, as you consider very superficially certain problems. i agree with commissioner rehn, and the report also agrees, that the question of budgetary consolidation is still open and of interest. the form it should take is still an open question there is no one who has the panacea and different schools of thought are emerging, both within the european institutions and in academia. there is a fair mix of taxation and public spending. i would like to make it clear in this connection - and i agree with commissioner rehn - that there is no one recipe for all and that the great differences between the various member states require us to reflect on national situations on the basis of their different specificities. the commissioner mentioned spain, greece and italy, countries in the south which have completely different situations. commissioner, i would also like to ask that a speech be given on the inseparable combination of recovery and growth: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but if we neglect growth, we run the risk of entering a vicious circle between the problem of government spending and the problem of recession by focusing solely on taxation. that is why we must reflect on this subject, and we must make it free of all ideological questions, putting the interests of the citizens first, as the honourable member said.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but that is the ideal and it is an ideal, alas, far from it. we must now take into account that the need to harmonize the various sectors of production and the various economic dimensions is only possible if this policy is maintained. but it is also true that when we are faced with extremely difficult situations, as we are today, because the crisis affects all european countries, albeit in a diffuse way, there is a risk that state aid, partly because of an excess of autonomy in its use and a lack of responsibility in the choice of objectives, will become one of the conditions that alter the dynamics of economic relations and therefore competition. the commission's proposal to aim at modernisation is therefore appropriate. but we have to understand what modernisation means. i think there 's an obvious timing issue . if state aid is subject to very long procedures, as it is today, it risks not being effective enough, especially in dealing with crisis situations, which may even become genuine emergencies. second theme: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to the detriment of the environment. the need for speed must be balanced against the need for constant monitoring, and this monitoring will be easier if the procedure - as the commission indicates - is set out in terms of parameters and criteria which must be confirmed not only by practice and experience but also by some new element which has the courage to look ahead. the third point concerning the modernisation hypothesis, in my view, is the relationship between the various institutional levels: the council, the commission and parliament. parliament cannot play a marginal role: the commission has already done so. i take as true and concrete the commitment you have hereby reaffirmed: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but if these do not have a decisive influence on the definition of state aid, we shall not make much progress. i understand that there is a problem of legal basis and of amending the treaties: but what we're asking is a commitment to the after. the real novelty, along with the change in procedures, could be exactly this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, i wish your government, the irish government, all the best for a very difficult and decisive six months. if the years we have just spent will be remembered as a period of crisis and austerity, 2013 could be remembered as a year of turning point, of a real turning point. i have noted with satisfaction that the dublin government announces its intention to work in its programme with the other member states and the european parliament on key programmes which can support strong economic growth and social cohesion in europe. the commission has also been able to identify the key point from which the impetus for economic recovery, for the creation of new jobs, for the return to hope, can be derived. because that's the real issue. we are bound by an agreement on the future financing of the european union for the period 2014-2020 and on this point an opportunity is being used up and also a great ambiguity: it is not the eurosceptics, but those who say they are convinced of europe who are continuing to harass the contents of this agreement. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have to deal with the problems of the developing countries, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to deal with the problems of the developing countries. that is why, mr president, i call on you to do everything possible to ensure that the irish presidency is the crucible, the place where a real and concrete agreement on the multiannual programme can be achieved. and on the budgetary question the meaning of the word europe will be at stake, which will then appear not merely as a rhetorical expression but as the objective instrument for reviving the opportunities of our citizens and our businesses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the programme presented to our assembly by the irish presidency is a very ambitious one. bringing europe back on the path of growth and jobs, while coping with recession, is no easy task: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i ask ireland to be brave and to act without prejudice, listening to the voice of the people who are calling for a different europe. the time has come to open a serious debate on the fate of the people in the eu, such as the venetians, the scots and the catalans, who are clamoring for independence from their home state, even through a referendum. the failure of the state, a source of administrative inefficiency and social injustice, is plain to see. we must make way for a new democracy from below. only through cooperation between the regions, the macro-regions and - i hope - the future euroregion of northern italy can we get out of this crisis and have a more cohesive europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, as you have heard, there is great expectation and confidence in your presidency, which is also supported by a very competent and determined minister. the moment is crucial, as everyone has said: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and they all revolve around this theme: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. and without a horizon of trust, the idea of europe loses its greatness, its value: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there has been a great limitation in european policies, a mistake which we in this parliament have denounced, sometimes in isolation, but we have done so tirelessly. the mistake was that of thinking that rigour and austerity were a precondition, an objective in themselves, the first stage of a policy which would then do the other things. but other things have been made even more difficult, more serious and people's lives have been made more fragile by this separation of the economic dimension from the social dimension of our lives. we ask you to reverse this trend as far as possible in the council, we still have time. i also have another invitation for you: you talked about stability, then you talked about growth jobs. reverse these priorities: he says jobs first, and then stability and growth for how they can help us with jobs. but i really appreciated his words for those people who today - and there are many young people, many women - start the day without income, without employment, without commitment, in fragility and weakness. the second call is for consistency: no more big claims and then some low-down, insignificant compromises. the budget is a test bed: we are talking about growth, jobs! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas:
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ireland is a country i love very much and it is therefore with great pleasure that i thank the irish presidency for the commitments it has made today, especially for its commitment to the adoption, as soon as possible, of the youth guarantee. we know that it is not a magic wand and that it will not solve all problems: but it is a strong signal of the reality of the 24% of young europeans - we are talking about 6 million young people - who are unemployed today. in italy, we reached a record 37%. in addition, member states which are behind in using the european social fund should be encouraged, and i would say obliged, to use it not only for social insurance but above all for active labour policies.
mr president, the situation is exactly the same as in the previous vote: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. if the political positions have not changed, we should proceed as before, so i leave the interpretation to you.
mr president, that was a very special vote. we have been in a delicate situation but i would like to thank all the political groups who supported this agreement and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, because the agreement was clearly sound, it held and we finally came after a long struggle to the approval of this important measure.
mr president, i have already said that we have rejected amendments nos 2, 3, 4 and 5. we are still against 6d: we are in favour of the commission's original text and therefore in favour of voting on the first amendment. we disagree on the rest.
mr president, apart from the timetable, i want to send a clear message: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i believe there is no other parliament in the world with a double seat. so one parliament, one seat.
in writing. - we missed a great opportunity today: the european parliament was able to show its firmness in rejecting this proposal, which is now being followed by the recent decision of the court of justice requiring the introduction of a new monthly session in strasbourg in order to respect the scandalous treaties which some foolish people wanted to sign. we will therefore have to make a new trip to alsace next october, a trip which will cost european taxpayers a few million euros: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i myself fought last year to introduce an amendment which went in the direction of establishing a single place of work for the european parliament, finding support from a few and hostility from many. over time, many colleagues have become "converted to the damascus way", marrying the one place, and i can only be satisfied with that. i also asked, together with other italian members of parliament, that president monti also speak on the matter: almost a year later, we are still waiting for a response, in the face of the much-vaunted spending review.
in writing. - i supported the report by mrs korhola on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations. this text amends directive 1999/45/ec as required by the need to update the proposal in the light of the lisbon treaty and to replace the previous and obsolete provisions with the updated ones.
in writing. - as this measure is technical in nature, in my opinion, and as it is entirely acceptable and as it does not present any problems, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the dangerous preparations directive regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions composed of two or more substances. all the amendments to directive 199/45/ec in the context of recasting are justified by the need to update the proposal in line with the amendments introduced by the treaty of lisbon. given that the subject is closely linked to the issues of public health and the risks associated with it, i consider this update necessary and therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. the report by mr korhola aims to review the corresponding directive on the approximation of the laws and regulations in force concerning the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations, particularly in view of the sudden changes brought about by technological progress. i therefore voted in favour of the text which, by ensuring legal continuity within the sectoral framework, is intended to fill the gaps that currently exist in the area of confidentiality and protection of intellectual property rights.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs rosbach on measures for the sustainable management and exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea. the text analyses the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 which is to be adapted to the lisbon treaty by specifying the scope of the implementing and delegated acts. i agree with the rapporteur that the annexes to the rules of procedure should be retained under the ordinary legislative procedure: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to finance the creation of new jobs.
in writing. − clearly, the subject matter goes beyond the specific merits of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 to deal with the complex task of regulatory alignment with the new system of delegated and implementing acts. in this sense, it seems to me that the rapporteur has approached with realism and prudent determination the issue of parliament's reaffirmed sovereignty, in balance with the nature of delegated and executive acts: for example, by affirming the principle of the time limit of delegated acts in order to preserve their practical and consequential character and not to alter their position in the hierarchy of regulatory sources, as could in fact happen with the ante-tfeu system. considering this as one of the first tests of alignment, it is for example agreeable that the role of parliament is clearly reiterated, specifically providing that the identification and management of new protected fishing areas, generally outside the territorial waters of the member states, be regulated through the ordinary legislative procedure. the specific theme is also an excellent area for regulatory testing, given the many implications of the common fisheries policy in terms of environmental, economic and industrial sustainability.
in writing. - i welcome the text voted on today, which concerns a subject of particular importance for italy: the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea. regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 is one of the first measures in the fisheries sector to be aligned to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. i believe that member states should step up their efforts in implementing this regulation; the commission has also proposed that the fishing fleet in the mediterranean should take into account the protection of resources and the environment on the one hand and the market and the supply chain linked to fishing activities on the other.
in writing. − the work, an adaptation to the lisbon treaty, pays great attention to the definition of the fields of application of implementing and delegated acts. the rapporteur does not agree with the commission's proposal to exclude the ordinary legislative procedure from the annexes to the regulation, thus excluding parliament from the role of co-legislator. it is hoped that the reform of the common fisheries policy will make it possible to find a satisfactory regulatory framework for the mediterranean sea, taking into account the important specificities of the area. my vote was therefore in favour.
in writing. - the vote today focuses on the delicate balance we must strike between economic exploitation of the mediterranean's marine resources, with the many families who live off this activity, and environmental protection. beyond the specific, highly technical issue, the european parliament considers it essential to protect the sea within the framework of rules that make fishing in european seas safer and more sustainable. this is the direction in which europe must work, also in view of the new common fisheries policy, which will be examined by this parliament very soon. european fishermen need rules that are clear, timely and effective.
in writing. − environmental protection and market interests must be balanced in such a way that neither damages the other nor limits the other. i voted in favour of mrs rosbach's text on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea because the regulation of fishing activities must be updated. in order to respect the environment and the marine ecosystem, these activities must not be invasive but effective and equipped with technical elements capable of assessing the activity to be carried out in the interests of consumers. i think the text strikes a good balance between respect for the environment, the fisheries market and the offer to the citizen.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 is one of the first fisheries measures to be aligned with the new system of delegated and implementing acts. the conservation of fisheries resources is of paramount importance, and it is therefore of the utmost importance to find a legally sound solution which protects the rights conferred on parliament by the treaty of lisbon. i hope that the state of implementation of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 will improve, that member states should step up their efforts to implement that regulation, and that the reform of the common fisheries policy will enable a rapid finding, through a new regional framework, of an appropriate regulatory solution for the mediterranean sea, accepted by the member states and the parties concerned, taking into account the specificities of that sea basin, while effectively ensuring and protecting the sustainability of fishing activities and the protection of resources and the environment.
in writing. the text voted today concerns a matter of primary importance: the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea. the current provisions need to be modernised in order to make better use of marine products, while respecting the environment. i therefore believe that a reform of the common fisheries policy will enable us to find an appropriate regulatory solution for the mediterranean sea in the short term, which will be accepted by the member states and the parties concerned, taking account of the specific features of this sea basin, while effectively ensuring the sustainability of fishing activities and the protection of resources and the environment.
in writing. - i support the report by mr groote. the text put to the vote completes a process which began with the entry into force of the convention on biological diversity on 29 december 1993. the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and compensation to the cartagena protocol on biosafety is part of the convention on biological diversity to which the eu is a party.
in writing. − approving the nagoya-kuala lumpur protocol means increasing safety and legal certainty when trading in genetically modified natural resources. in this measure too, the european parliament wishes to express its support for transparent and equal trade relations. the principle that the polluter must make good the damage is intended to build international relations based on mutual trust between states. trust, even on sensitive issues like biosecurity.
mr president, as we have seen in italy, austerity policies are not the way out of the crisis: in fact, they risk reducing consumption and further weakening the economy. i therefore agree with the rapporteur, mr pallone, that we must pursue a policy of consolidation, which is based on cutting waste and unproductive public spending instead of increasing taxes on citizens. at the same time, there is an urgent need to stimulate growth and employment, perhaps through an appropriate reform of the labour market, which can guarantee a brighter future for young europeans.
mr president, governance and budgetary reforms must be accompanied by credible, long-term budgetary consolidation strategies. this does not mean reducing public investment in the productive sectors of the economy, nor does it impose a burden on citizens by increasing tax revenue: but it requires a commitment to tackle waste, inefficiency and tax evasion. in short, to rebuild finances to invest in strategic areas: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i would like to stress once again that youth unemployment has reached alarming levels and, as the honourable member's report shows, if we do not reverse this trend, economic growth will continue to suffer.
in writing. - mr president, the sovereign debt crisis still has a decisive influence on the state of public accounts in monetary union. this is hampering and aggravating the attempts of many member states to achieve structural reforms to ensure international competitiveness. the work done in this own-initiative report was certainly not easy. it was rather complicated to discuss together the state of public finances in emu in 2011 and 2012, the imf interventions, the new european funds created on an ad hoc basis and the repercussions on the banking sector. i agree with the general approach in the report by my colleague and i too believe that credible long-term budgetary control strategies are needed: however, in the light of the new economic data emerging from analyses and reports on the us and other brics economies, i think we should open a european-level debate on the austerity policy pursued in recent years in the european union and draw conclusions and data on what it has actually produced.
in writing. - i have supported the own-initiative report by mr pallone. the text is based on the worrying state of eu finances and the need to consolidate them, and stresses the need for dialogue between the european institutions and member states, urged to carry out, as soon as possible, growth-oriented structural reforms in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the report calls for greater flexibility in the labour market through lower taxation, greater ease of access to credit and less bureaucratic reform of public administration.
in writing. − i believe that reforms in the governance and budgetary context must be accompanied by long-term and credible fiscal consolidation strategies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community, such as the creation of a european company for the processing of agricultural products. without such a commitment, economic growth will continue to be hampered.
in writing. − the state of the art of public finances in the member states participating in economic and monetary union is certainly not positive. the increase in the euro area government debt-to-gdp ratio from 86,2% in the first quarter of 2011 to 88,2% in the first quarter of 2012 is an example. the recovery and stability of national public finances are certainly objectives to be kept in mind in order to look with confidence to the economic and social future of the eu. however, as mr pallone's report points out, policies of control and rigour to keep public accounts in order must not be in the way of actions to stimulate growth, development and employment. it is hoped that national governments, in concert with the european institutions, will increasingly take these signals to heart and move towards implementing welfare, labour and tax reforms that take account of the growing need to stimulate an economy that is sadly stagnating.
in writing. - this report contains some interesting points, which in some ways represent new developments in the often dogmatic view of brussels. first, a reality that should be in the public eye but has hardly ever been taken into account is highlighted: the various european states have very different situations with regard to economic, financial, productive and social structures. there can therefore be no single recipe that works for all the countries that are part of the economic and monetary union. for example, a measure or a series of measures may be good for the french situation but may have negative effects on the italian situation: there are too many differences to consider. it is clear that the general objective must be a situation of balance and sound financial management, but the ways and means of achieving this can and must differ between the various member states, while also respecting the differences which sometimes have no mere economic and financial value but are rooted in profoundly different historical, social and cultural contexts.
mr president, for the third time in three years the european parliament is called upon to discuss matters relating to credit rating agencies. it is undeniable that these agencies, in a time of severe financial crisis such as the one we are experiencing, can influence the economic scenarios and the prices of government bonds issued by the member states with their judgments. i therefore agree with the need for better regulation of the work of rating agencies, to reduce the chances that hasty judgments and ill-advised statements may have a negative impact on international markets.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr domenici on his work and say that this regulation is the first important regulatory framework for the market in rating agencies, although we know that this is not enough to protect us from the exploitation of the role that the current rating agencies have played in the past. the attempt to open up this market to new players could serve to improve the whole system, which has hitherto been overly concentrated, and we believe that the key is actually to separate the activities of these agencies from any other type of economic activity without any possible conflict of interest. i must say, while being aware of the diversity of the subject - which has been introduced in some way today by the irish presidency - that it is also appropriate and necessary to establish a clear separation between traditional banking and investment banking, i.e. deposit and credit banks on the one hand and investment banks on the other. this would also ensure greater transparency, reducing the risk that consumers' savings are always used improperly and for hidden speculation. however, the text we have discussed and adopted today is perhaps the best possible agreement for this house: it is desirable, however, that in future, when this subject is discussed again, a more decisive intervention be considered.
mr president, as we have seen in recent years, and particularly during this period of economic crisis, the activities of credit rating agencies have had a major impact on the behaviour of economic and financial actors and on the life of public institutions. their influence continues to stir debates, both in civil society and among the political class. i welcome the commission's proposal: however, i still wonder whether the measures taken are sufficient to ensure a transparent process for the functioning of these agencies and to clarify the logic and interests behind them. i think we should do even more and i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that in general this subject should, in my view, be the subject of future and further discussion in the european parliament.
mr president, i too agree that more could have been done. but i also believe that the domenici report has really opened the way to a process of change in the discipline of rating in europe and, as the same rapporteur said during yesterday's debate, this vote in the house marks a very positive new beginning which, moreover, was also sealed by the unanimity which was reached yesterday between the commission, the council and the european parliament on a number of key points. firstly, echoing the remarks of commissioner barnier, it was stated that new regulation was needed so that the rating would be in favour of jobs and growth and not speculation; the regulatory framework for the civil liability of credit rating agencies, the mechanisms for ensuring transparency and the avoidance of serious conflicts of interest have been agreed. i think we have made a considerable step forward and that is why i voted in favour of the domenici report.
mr president, as is well known, the three major rating agencies currently influence 90% of the market and therefore operate in an oligopolistic regime. the necessary conditions for independence are therefore no longer present, with all the risks that this entails. the new regulation is therefore a good one, although it is perfect, as the rapporteur said yesterday, but it is a good one because it sets clearer rules on transparency, competition and conflicts of interest. the introduction of civil liability with financial penalties for rating agencies in the event of misleading ratings, which in the recent past have affected financial instability, in fact encouraging speculative attacks on sovereign debts, is also an important new development. the aim of verifying the feasibility of a genuine european rating agency by 2016 is also important.
mr president, the rating agencies are autonomous bodies which give ratings on the ability of a company or a state to pay its debts, or on its stability, and therefore its economic and financial credibility. it is clear that these assessments involve choices by investors and therefore continuous possible stock market fluctuations. since i was elected, i have been pushing for the impact of the choices these companies make on the economy to be reduced and for a european-style rating agency to be set up. finally, a proposal for a regulation has been reached in codecision with the council, which i wholeheartedly support. ensuring that the ratings of credit rating agencies are impartial and of high quality; that they can be held liable for damages arising from their choices; the excessive reliance on credit ratings, in particular for banks, is reduced; that public debt assessments of states may be made only three times a year to avoid jeopardising their stability; the european commission to present a draft european credit rating agency by 2016: i am not going to go into the details of the proposals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr domenici on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies. the text highlights two important phenomena: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter. these circumstances require the introduction of legislation which holds these companies accountable for their actions: they must take full responsibility for the judgments they make and must be sanctioned when they make them in breach of the rules or in a superficial way, thus causing damage to both the community and investors.
in writing. − the three major rating agencies currently influence 90% of the market and therefore operate in an oligopoly regime. the necessary conditions for independence are therefore no longer present, with all the risks that this entails. i therefore believe that more could have been done with the new regulation. nevertheless, the report does open the way to a process of change in the discipline of credit rating in europe, by setting clearer rules on transparency, competition and conflict of interest. the introduction of civil liability with financial penalties for rating agencies in the event of misleading ratings, which in the recent past have affected financial instability, in fact encouraging speculative attacks on sovereign debts, is also an important innovation. the objective of verifying the feasibility of a genuine european credit rating agency by 2016 is essential.
in writing. − the role and influence of rating agencies, which have acquired in recent times and are often responsible for incorrect and untimely assessments of the sovereign debt of various countries, is clear, and greater regulation of the sector is necessary. greater accountability, transparency and independence are therefore needed. the creation of a european agency, together with the institution of civil liability in the event of negligence or intent which may cause damage to investors, are objectives which are fully acceptable. for all these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. − the activities of credit rating agencies have a significant and significant impact on the behaviour of economic and financial actors and on the role of public institutions. the regulation of credit rating agencies therefore represents a necessary margin of manoeuvre in the wider reform of the functioning of financial markets. in particular, i welcome the proposals for the establishment of a european-wide rating agency, the rules governing the independence of agencies and the way ratings are communicated, especially with regard to national governments. i believe that all the proposals are an attempt to ensure greater transparency in the activities of the rating agencies and at the same time to protect their specific action by not imposing an information burden which could excessively influence the financial markets.
in writing. − credit rating agencies play a decisive role in the assessment of investments by economic actors. they affect the forecasts and estimates of the economic and financial performance of public and private institutions. they are therefore agencies with a very high potential to influence the destiny of a country. consequently, if not properly regulated, they can fall into serious conflicts of interest. i therefore believe it is important that the eu has a proper regulatory system which makes the rating agencies more transparent, fair and accountable in the transmission of data, particularly when it comes to a state and its sovereign debt. the fight against the crisis is also the fight against speculation and the rating agencies must remain impartial.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies. in fact, in recent times, rating agencies have made mistakes, especially in relation to assessments of the reliability of some states: some sovereign ratings were announced while negotiations were underway on an international aid programme for a country. therefore, the european commission presented proposals in november 2011 to improve the quality of credit ratings, considering that the current legislation is insufficient. the text aims to increase the transparency of sovereign ratings and presents the following aspects: 1) banks will not have to rely automatically on ratings 2) the timing of public debt judgments will be regulated 3) the facts and assumptions on which sovereign debt judgments are based will be clearly specified 4) agencies may be held liable in civil cases of negligence or intent such as to cause damage to investors.
in writing. - i support the report by mr domenici on collective investment undertakings (ucits) and alternative investment fund managers (aifs). ucits and aifs should reduce their reliance on the opinions of credit rating agencies and move towards forming their own credit assessments. for this reason, i agree with the rapporteur that credit ratings should not be included in the supervision regime for ucits and aifs.
in writing. − the rating agencies, through their studies and opinions, provide reference information for those engaged in economic activities, including investors in undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and alternative investment funds. considering that credit ratings are a useful indicator of future creditworthiness but do not measure other types of risks, they should not be misused by investors to assess other characteristics of securities such as liquidity risk, price volatility or marketability. investment fund managers should therefore not take the advice of credit rating agencies too seriously and should conduct their own analyses to better analyse the risk factors associated with a given investment.
in writing. - as this proposal is technical in nature, only provides for technical and legislative adjustments to the 2007 regulation on multiannual plans for cod stocks in the baltic sea and does not present any problems, i voted in favour.
in writing. - to alleviate the effects of the crisis, which is becoming more structural than cyclical over time, it is important to incorporate the needs of the primary sector, such as the poorly protected fisheries sector. it is important to provide concrete responses and to develop and negotiate realistic solutions to alleviate the effects and protect the families who live in this sector. i therefore consider this dossier to be particularly sensitive. it is important that our measures and efforts are directed towards the responsible management of the sea. we must develop a sector of significant economic and social value. but we must also be committed to steering our actions in a sustainable way for local communities and territories, which are recognised as attracting cultural, natural and tourist
in writing. - today at the strasbourg plenary session we voted on mr gallagher's report. technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources are among the key elements of a regional approach to fisheries management and are complementary to decisions on catch opportunities. the commission proposal aims to extend the application of the rules on technical measures for a further transitional period until the adoption of a new legal framework, once the reform of the common fisheries policy has been adopted.
mr president, this resolution is certainly not the solution to a dramatic problem: it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid, but of the commission's being too rigid. i think it is a good and useful opportunity to reiterate the european parliament's unanimous position on a problem that exists. we heard this morning from prime minister kenny that the problem of youth employment in europe is the first problem and that it will be at the heart of the irish presidency's agenda: in this document we reiterate the need for constant attention and for instruments such as the minimum wage and flexicurity to be properly regulated at european level and shared by all countries, since there are still many countries, such as italy, which have not understood that youth unemployment is a plague that can bring the whole country to its knees.
mr president, we have said this many times: the young cannot pay the price of the crisis. record youth unemployment: we have to be able to take account of the fact that the european union is a global economy. so this package for young people is a good thing, the youth guarantee is a good thing, for the 6 million or so unemployed in europe who are waiting for concrete solutions. i think it would also be useful to consult young people and youth organisations actively, who often complain that they are excluded from these decisions. but above all we expect the next council meeting in february to approve this youth guarantee without further delay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vertiginous increase in youth unemployment in europe, which now amounts to 6 million young people and which in my own country and in other countries of southern europe exceeds 35%, has now become a structural phenomenon, of which i think it is taking a long time to become aware, both at european level and in the member states. i hope that the february council of ministers will accept this proposal. the statements by the president of the irish council of ministers, among others, but also the positive response given yesterday by the commission, through commissioner andor, and the strong determination of parliament, can finally be a signal to many young people in europe who expect specific and concrete attention from europe in this direction. i think it is also very interesting that this possibility is also given on the basis of experiments already under way - some have also been made in other countries - of combining and integrating national funds and the european social fund with proposals for training, internships, job opportunities, not allowing the so-called neet category, that is, without work and without training. i would just like to add that the social fund can also be used as a guarantee fund for loans and for scholarships and therefore in a formula which enlarges and implements the resources available.
in writing. − mr. president, i voted for this resolution because i support the idea, launched by the commission, of having a council recommendation on youth guarantee schemes. this youth guarantee must be an instrument ensuring that all young eu citizens and legal residents up to the age of 25 years, and recent graduates under 30, receive a good-quality offer of employment, continued education or apprenticeship within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving formal education. the economic crisis has led to a rise in precarious forms of employment for young people and the youth unemployment rate has soared to 23.4 %, leaving 5.68 million young people without a job. in addition, all too often, short-term, part-time and unremunerated work is replacing existing jobs. recent studies have stressed that youth unemployment often leaves permanent scars, such as an increased risk of future unemployment and of permanent social exclusion. for all these reasons i am strongly in favour of the youth guarantee schemes.
in writing. - once again - the third time in a few months - the european parliament asks the member states' labour ministers to adopt a youth guarantee, following the example of some countries. this is a tool which provides that all young people under 25 and graduates under 30 who are unemployed - within 4 months of finishing their studies - will be offered a path to further studies, apprenticeship or work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not under any illusion that this measure, if adopted, will solve the problem, but it is certainly a step in the right direction, to deal with a dramatic element of the economic crisis that is taking place. the figures for youth unemployment in my country have long since exceeded the alarm level, with an average of 37.1%. in other countries the picture is even more disturbing, affecting 50% of young people. finally, it must be borne in mind that any young person who does not enter the workforce risks social exclusion later in life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a youth guarantee because i believe it is essential to set up and implement youth guarantee schemes in all member states so that they receive a good quality job offer within a short period of time after leaving school. unfortunately, the youth unemployment rate has skyrocketed due to the crisis, and as a result, forms of precarious work have increased. in this respect, close cooperation between the social partners and employment services is necessary to ensure effective implementation of the youth guarantee programmes, through monitoring by the member states and by taking action where these guarantees are not implemented.
in writing. - i wanted to support this resolution, hoping above all that it would be a good omen and would serve to bring to the attention of all the very difficult situation young people are experiencing in europe today. the unemployment rate for this group of the population is rising steadily: in the european union, almost one in four young people are in this situation, and beyond the percentage figure, it is the number of individuals that should make us think. six million young people are in a difficult situation to find employment, with heavy costs both for the families who support them and for society as a whole, without taking into account that young people often feel frustrated and useless. this is very dangerous, because young people are the foundation on which the future is built and at the moment the prospects are not very rosy. it is not certain that a resolution will change the situation, but it must be a signal to governments to put young people at the centre of their policies and initiatives.
in writing. − youth unemployment in the eu reached an average of 23.7% in november 2012. in italy, the rate in the same month was 37.1%, while in countries such as greece and spain it is over 50%. with the youth guarantee scheme we are not trying to force job creation, but to put in place the tools that give young people a chance and avoid losing a generation. the aim of the scheme is to ensure that all eu citizens legally resident under the age of 25 and recent graduates under 30 are offered a good job, a new course of study or an apprenticeship within four months of becoming unemployed. i therefore urge the eu labour ministers to agree by february on a council recommendation to introduce this system in all member states.
in writing. - the problem of youth unemployment is now reaching the point of no return: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the youth guarantee scheme is designed to do just that: no young person in the eu should be without a job, education or training for more than four months. this is why all eu labour ministers must agree by february to introduce this system in all member states. the aim must not be to force the creation of new jobs, but to set in motion the instruments which give young people a chance to build a future by earning a present.
in writing. - i fully support this motion for a resolution, especially in the light of the economic crisis we are currently experiencing. in october 2012, the global unemployment rate had risen to an unprecedented 10.7%, with 25.91 million people looking for work. the youth unemployment rate has risen sharply to 23.4%, which translates into over 5 million unemployed young people, a figure that partly reflects imbalances between the supply of skills and the demand of the labour market, often regardless of the educational levels of those seeking employment. the member states are faced with a difficult and arduous task of stepping up their efforts to increase youth employment with the aim of ensuring that within a few months of leaving school, young people receive a valid offer of work, lifelong learning, apprenticeship or traineeship. the aim would therefore be to ensure that all young eu citizens up to the age of 25 and young graduates under the age of 30 receive a good quality offer of employment, further education or traineeship within four months of the start of the period of unemployment or the end of formal education.
in writing. − among the most dramatic effects of the crisis affecting western economies since 2008 is undoubtedly the dramatic increase in youth unemployment. in addition to the unemployed young people, many others are unfortunately employed in precarious forms of work, on short-term or part-time contracts, which all too often replace existing jobs. i therefore hope that the necessary increase in european funding for youth guarantee programmes will be achieved as soon as possible. i also hope that the member states will reform the rules on education and training for young people, so as to significantly increase the employment opportunities of young europeans.
mr president, the ambitious objective we set in the report on the role of cohesion policy in implementing the new european energy policy is the result of work done in the regi committee with itre and i must say that we set the ambitious objective that, after 2015, no region in the member states should remain isolated from the european gas and electricity networks. this fully reflects the significance of cohesion policies, also considering that the 2014-2020 seven-year period will probably be the few funds that will circulate in europe. that is why i have supported the dossier in this sense, so that there can be more effective and efficient spending. in this connection, i would draw attention to the situation in regions such as sardinia, for which several hundred million euros have been allocated to a project called galsi, which has been blocked for years by occult logic and represents a major international fraud to the detriment of europe, italy and the sardinians: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is clear that it is easy to connect sardinia and corsica with the italian mainland to the european network: instead, almost 1 billion euros remain locked in public coffers while unemployment at maximum levels and companies forced to go bankrupt are an insult to all of sardinia and the entire economy.
mr president, with the kolarska-bobińska report the regi committee is asking for a clear direction to be given to the use of the huge resources which the european union has made available for energy investments through the budget. the report sets out three main objectives to be pursued: diversification of the energy mix, improvement of energy production efficiency and the extension and modernisation of energy infrastructure. the second point raised in the kolarska-bobińska report is the need for energy policies to be managed in a less centralised way and to pay more attention to the specific features of the regions. the rapporteur's reference to the report published by the court of auditors at the end of the vote is of direct concern to me and i would like to say that i am certainly in favour of tightening the sanctions for those who, like italy, misuse resources, as is clear from the report; but i think we should also insist on more effective controls, clearer procedural rules and greater transparency of procedures.
in writing. - i believe that this report deserves support in many respects. the energy question is also vital if european industry is to overcome the present crisis. the achievement of diversification of supplies, security of supply and affordability for the end user are essential objectives; in addition, investments in efficient construction and transport would create jobs. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − european cohesion policy aims to support europe's regions by bridging the gap between the most advanced and the least developed. in today's vote, parliament calls for the regional authorities, which are the closest to the citizen, to be the main partners of the commission and the member states when designing energy projects. these are very specific measures which must take account of the diversity of the territory: some regions need to focus more on the energy efficiency of buildings, others lack basic infrastructure in the distribution of gas and electricity, some are richer in renewable resources, others need to drastically reduce harmful emissions. it would be shortsighted and unrealistic to produce regulations that apply indiscriminately to very different areas. this is why cohesion policy must play a more central role in thinking about europe's energy future.
in writing. − eu cohesion policy can and must play an important role in defining and implementing the new european energy policy. as i have already said in the report, which i voted in favour of, cohesion policy can benefit from european energy projects. in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, territories can benefit from energy legislation that increases their autonomous capacity to manage these resources. while keeping the objectives of the two plans - cohesion policy on the one hand and the energy strategy on the other - separate, it is clear that the broad outline of european energy policy will be an important player in the recovery of europe's currently most disadvantaged territories.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the draft report on the role of eu cohesion policy and its actors in implementing the new european energy policy. the own-initiative report recognises the link between cohesion policy and energy policy and presents the following aspects: 1) european energy policy must ensure the security of energy resources, diversification of supplies and affordability for the end user. 2. sees european energy projects as a means of strengthening territorial cooperation and helping regions to manage their energy resources; 3. considers that investment in energy-efficient construction and transport is linked to the creation of new jobs; 4. recalls the importance of the structural and cohesion funds in achieving the europe 2020 objectives on energy efficiency; (5) considers that simplifying the procedures for accessing the funds is essential to ensure their efficient use.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i am convinced that cohesion policy can play a key role in exploiting the potential of innovation, research and development, so that future challenges in the energy sector can be transformed into an opportunity to boost the union's economic power. the common objectives of european energy policy are security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness. i welcome the overall approach of linking cohesion policy to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to embark on the path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i also believe that initiatives to support local and regional energy saving capacities should be promoted, including through the promotion of erdf and esf investments.
mr president, this is not the first time that the european parliament has spoken in favour of eurobonds or stability bonds. so, maximum commitment by the community institutions to reform the mechanisms of the european union's functioning: this is primarily to get back to growth and job creation. above all, we cannot continue to have a euro zone that has a common currency but does not have a common bond market. this market would be necessary and useful not only for financial stability but also and above all for boosting development and investment. the commission has therefore set out a clear and credible roadmap for the introduction of stability bonds, accompanied by structural reforms to support growth and employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds, tabled by mr goulard, because i am firmly convinced that the european union must start to seriously consider the implementation of debt mutualisation and economic recovery instruments such as the redemption fund and eurobonds. the text as voted in the house represents a sufficiently acceptable compromise between those who want europe to concentrate its efforts on defining an effective strategy to support growth and economic recovery and those who maintain more rigid positions on economic policy. i certainly appreciate the many references to the importance of encouraging solidarity between member states, which is certainly linked to greater responsibility on the part of the member states, and the invitation to the commission to evaluate the possible scenarios. a common stock market is the logical continuation of the path taken with the introduction of the common currency. my vote in favour of the new wording is due to the need not to waste the opportunity for parliament to express itself clearly on these crucial issues, but i believe that the original text of the resolution, voted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, would have represented a far more forceful alternative and a greater incentive for the commission to outline a more precise roadmap from the outset.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds because it is necessary for the european union to start seriously thinking about the implementation of debt mutualisation and economic recovery instruments such as the redemption fund and eurobonds. the text is a compromise between those who want europe to focus its efforts on defining an effective strategy to support growth and economic recovery through development and investment, and those who maintain more rigid positions on economic policy. it is therefore important to establish a clear and credible roadmap for the introduction of stability bonds and the implementation of a series of structural reforms in favour of growth and employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs goulard's proposal because i believe it aims to ensure a sustainable budgetary discipline which takes full account of the respective situations of the member states. the proposals concerning the use of certain instruments, such as the sovereign debt repayment fund, and the introduction of euro securities are interesting and useful. these two instruments, acting on two opposite but complementary fronts, serve on the one hand to guarantee the debt of the member states, in the perspective of an ever more cohesive and solidary european union; the commission has also proposed that the european investment bank (eib) should be able to support the development of the euro area by issuing securities which, given their characteristics, could be an attractive investment for a number of operators.
in writing. - it is necessary to urge the commission and the member states to explore all possible ways of introducing instruments for the mutualisation of public debt. this would, among other things, eliminate one of the most obvious contradictions in the eurozone, where there is a single currency but no common bond market. we must therefore act quickly and convince the commission to draw up a report on the various options for mutualising the public debt of the euro countries, drawing up a roadmap which clarifies the timing and modalities of its introduction.
in writing. − in the current economic climate, member states are having difficulty accessing finance at reasonable rates because of market distrust of public debt and the situation of european banks, as well as the ability of european leaders to take definitive action to protect and integrate the single currency. the crisis is demonstrating not only the interdependence between euro area member states but also the need for a stronger fiscal union with effective mechanisms to correct fiscal trends, macroeconomic imbalances, debt levels and budgetary ceilings of unsustainable member states. i welcome the proposal, considering that no federal state (nor the united states or germany) issues instruments similar to the eurobonds envisaged in options 1 and 2 of the green paper, and that they therefore fall within a completely new concept, not comparable to those of treasury bonds (usa) or bundesanleihen (germany), as instruments of proven reliability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of the agreement with iraq because it represents an open and constant channel of communication between europe and a country which is emerging from war and wants to build democracy without having known it in its history. the difficulties are many: there are inter-religious conflicts between sunnis and shiites, with serious and frequent attacks; relations between kurdistan and the rest of the country are difficult; the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. these are not iraq's only serious problems: the corruption and pressure exerted by iran in iraqi internal affairs have been cited. our task is to help that country by offering our experience in building democracy and the rule of law, with all the technical tools we can provide but above all with strong political pressure, rather than through financial support, which iraq needs less. this agreement is therefore the first step on a long journey, without forgetting our motto 'more for more and less for less'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and, of course, the commission and the council for their contributions. i would like to say that with this partnership and cooperation agreement we can finally enter a new and significant phase in the bilateral relations between the european union and iraq in the political field - i would like to remind you of this - trade and development cooperation, after the birth of the iraqi government and parliament and the adoption of the new constitution following the 2010 elections and in view of, among other things, important political events such as the 2014 elections. after the dramatic and controversial events of the intervention in iraq and the removal of saddam hussein, which was called for earlier (different countries took different positions, including my own country), we are now also faced with support measures already taken by europe for the democratization process. i am also thinking of the important opening of a delegation in baghdad, which is to be followed by other offices in that country; i also think that the present phase is characterized by some important achievements - which must also be recognized - on the difficult path of national reconciliation and normalization. i will mention only two aspects: the political agreement between the iraqi leaders for a government of national unity and the establishment of a high commission for human rights as an independent institution that needs to be strengthened. of course, mr stevenson, we are not unaware of the serious problems and criticisms: i think of the increasing executions; i am thinking of the persecution and violence against minorities, particularly christians. there are 100 000 christians forced into exile. the european union is also concerned about the concentration of the ministries of the interior and defence and the national security council in the hands of prime minister maliki, and about the issues of refugees and asylum seekers. this agreement, as some colleagues have said - and i agree - finally allows the european union to lay the foundations for a strengthened dialogue, first of all at political level, on issues such as peace, foreign policy, security, national reconciliation, the rule of law, human rights and stability, and also creates permanent bodies - including parliamentary bodies - such as the parliamentary cooperation committee, together with the council and the cooperation committee, which will strengthen a permanent and non-occasional institutional dialogue. the support of the european union and the united nations in resolving the humanitarian emergency of the iraqi people, considering the one and a half million refugees inside and outside the country, is an important issue for us. we know there's another very sensitive issue: we have heard many testimonies from the iraq-eu delegation, of which i am vice-chairman, also with regard to the problem of the transfer of residents from camp ashraf to camp liberty and to other countries, in collaboration with the intelligent action of the un special representative, martin koppler, who has been calling for months now on the member states to facilitate their resettlement and also to allow their individual repatriation. (the president interrupted the speaker) 'the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer to a blue-card question. i think that the importance of this framework agreement is precisely to guarantee new forms of cooperation, including economic cooperation, to support health, education and the economy and thus the recovery of employment, but in a framework which is that of 'more for more', which provides for a safeguard clause so that, alongside these supports, there must also be respect for human rights, otherwise there will also be consequences for trade and economic relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that before we can talk about relations between the european union and iraq, we must first resolve the situation of the refugees at camp ashraf and camp liberty in iraq. these people, who were politically persecuted by the iranian regime, lived for 26 years in camp ashraf and last year almost all of them were moved to camp liberty, which was supposed to be a transit location. in fact, it has become a prison, as the working group on arbitrary detention of the human rights council has called it. the unhcr itself refuses to recognize camp liberty as a refugee camp. furthermore, the iraqi government wants to seize all property, movable and immovable, of iranian refugees transferred from camp ashraf to camp liberty. i ask that baroness ashton and the united nations work to have camp liberty recognized as a refugee camp, with the rights attached to it for its presidents, or that they be allowed to return to ashraf pending a shared solution to their tragic situation. in the light of the facts, the correctness of the work of martin koppler, the un representative in iraq, must also be verified.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy in bangladesh on 24 november was preceded and followed by others in textile factories in poor countries, where local industry works on commission for companies in industrialized countries. the possible responsibilities of the owners and local managers, the lack of control by the competent authorities over the situation of the plants, the workplaces and the conditions of the workers will be ascertained; but the european union has a duty to address a strong appeal to our companies operating in the least developed countries to ensure, within their competence, that the companies they use to produce products for the european market and others do not, guarantee working conditions compatible with the safety and respect of workers. european companies producing in areas with low labour costs must nevertheless bring development to those countries by taking on the necessary controls, because globalisation and free markets cannot be confused with the exploitation of the poor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, are we mourning the loss of 112 dead and 100 wounded, including many women and many children? well, we cry crocodile tears. it 's also the fault of the person sitting in here: the european commission itself, which does not want the 'made in' label to tell us where those shirts are made by those children, is not going to do anything about it. we are losing the lives of asian workers, we are losing the jobs of thousands of entrepreneurs and workers in lombardy, italy and europe, but nobody cares. it all ends here with a discussion and condolences to the families. the hypocrisy of the european union is this: to make a few dollars over here, they don't care about jobs in europe and lives in asia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, commissioner, the accident at the dhaka textile factory is truly unacceptable. 112 dead in the flames and 200 injured: women in particular and many young people. it is not the first incident, unfortunately, not to mention that, incidentally, a similar one occurred a few hours later. the problem is therefore serious: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. in bangladesh, the clothing industry accounts for about 80% of exports, mainly to the european union and the united states. the rights of workers must therefore be an essential element of the cooperation agreement between the european union and bangladesh. in general, the european union must require compliance with international labour organisation standards by all companies that contract or subcontract to factories in bangladesh, as the bangladeshi textile industry produces mainly for large multinationals. in addition, it is necessary to ensure that national legislation on safety and health at work is respected and bangladesh must continue its efforts to reduce child labour, a phenomenon which is partly hidden and for which there are few official figures, even though unicef says that more than one million children are engaged in hazardous work.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not share the cautious optimism that leads us to say that the reports are increasing and that, therefore, community fraud is probably beginning to be affected by the controls, if it is true, as it is true that an official source of the italian police states that every year 1.2 billion euros of european funds end up in the coffers of the mafia. in the economic geography of crime, the shift towards crime, the structural funds, the fundamental role is played by our country, italy: in italy, however, three regions are particularly relevant: campania (622 reports), calabria (611) and apulia (539). in addition, as regards the figure given by the commissioner on cases where these investigations lead to criminal convictions, the average of 40% in these areas of our country is reduced to 20%. they are getting away with it, if it is true, as it is true that even in the face of a surname like riina's, in this case gaetano, the younger brother of the head of the italian mafia bosses, has received over 25 000 euros and more from agricultural contributions. contributions which he should not have received, also because community rules provide that funds cannot be granted to persons who are the subject of preventive measures such as this person. my question on this subject, how it was possible to send 25 000 euros to the brother of toto riina, has not yet been answered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr commissioner, the s&d group of which i am a member has strongly wanted this debate, precisely because the issues under discussion, namely corruption and fraud involving european funds, need a frank discussion with the european commission, also in view of the forthcoming drafting of the crim report. as far as fraud is concerned, i share the view of those who complain about the lack of accurate information from olaf, europol and eurojust on the real extent of fraud involving european funds. the figures we have received are contradictory and we are not able to establish, in a clear and unambiguous way, the extent of fraud committed by organized crime. we are certainly talking about high figures: to take one example, in my country, italy, the guardia finanziaria detected fraud on european funds between 2003 and september 2012, with a total value of 1 billion euros. in milan, the prosecution found that 22 training courses, for which european funds of 50 million euros were allocated, were never carried out, and according to the magistrates, this fraud was possible thanks to a fake partnership between companies based in france, greece, england, poland, austria and sweden. this case shows that the fight against fraud cannot be carried out on a national basis alone but that common legislation is urgently needed, as well as greater coordination between the member states. on this point, i would like to ask the commission, in the light of the proposal for a fraud directive which is about to be discussed in the european parliament, whether it has precise data on the level of penetration and misuse of eu funds by organised crime. i'll close with a brief reference to corruption: olaf estimates that corruption costs the 27 member states of the union some €120 billion each year. about 25% of public funds are lost in public procurement procedures, largely due to corruption. the crim committee is studying a number of proposals to be submitted to the european commission to make anti-corruption methods more effective; i would like to stress here the need to arrive at a single definition of corruption, so as to better identify the european crime. at present, we have only one definition of corruption, which comes from the council of europe and the united nations: but we need a definition of our own, a definition of the european union. i am also in favour of the european union's participation in the greek group of the council of europe, in order to create synergies between the two mechanisms.
mr president, this week we heard that a report on fraud involving european funds was presented in italy following an investigation by the financial guard. the numbers are impressive: from 2003 to september 2012, as many as 4 500 cases of irregularities were reported, involving funds totalling over eur 1 billion. it is amazing to note that the bulk of these frauds are concentrated in just three regions of southern italy, namely campania, calabria and puglia. these are areas that would be in dire need of this money, which instead often ends up in the pockets of individuals of dubious morality. i would like to stress once again what my colleague said earlier, mr borghezio, about the generosity of this european union towards the brother of the notorious mafia boss salvatore riina, known as totò, one of the main criminals in italian history, a man who has been subject to prolonged surveillance, who for years received european union funding for his agricultural activities. it is clear that brussels cannot control every single financing: but perhaps there should be more specific rules, which at least try to prevent such situations from occurring.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this resolution is the continuation of the long-term commitment of our parliament to the strengthening of the non-proliferation treaty and to its final goal, a world without nuclear weapons. a middle east weapons of mass destruction free zone, if it were achieved, would offer compelling strategic benefits to the region and to the world at large. the zone would resolve the iranian nuclear crisis and remove the danger of a ‘proliferation cascade’ that could include three or four additional middle eastern countries. the zone would eliminate the most dangerous weapons from the world’s most volatile region and reduce the risk of nuclear armaments being used in war or by accident. participation by israel and iran is critical to the conference’s success. iran has long expressed its support for a nuke-free middle east. on the other hand israel has much to gain from a verifiably implemented zone. its nuclear monopoly in the middle east is not sustainable over the long run, and a region with no weapons of mass destruction is preferable to one that has multiple nuclear-weapon states. the establishment of the zone would mean also the expansion of the global non-nuclear space through regional non-proliferation, which is one of the major achievements of the npt. the zone free of nuclear weapons now includes the entire southern hemisphere of the planet, plus large areas of the northern one. nearly 2 billion people in 120 countries live within the system of guarantees that reduces the chance of a nuclear armaments race and considerably strengthens the nuclear taboo. two entire continents, latin america and africa, are free from the most extreme threat to human security by virtue of the treaty of tlatelolco and the treaty pelindaba, which have been signed and respected by all countries. the same is true of the treaty of rarotonga, for the south pacific area, and the treaty of bangkok signed by the south-east asian nations. and a few years ago, through a landmark agreement which entered into force in 2009, all the five republics of central asia banished nuclear weapons from their territories. to the zones we have already mentioned, we should add antarctica, which was demilitarised in 1959, the sea-bed and the ocean floor, which were freed from the risk of becoming a repository for atomic bombs by the 1971 treaty, the territory of the moon and outer space. the outer space treaty, which was signed in 1967 and has been ratified by 130 countries, is a true renaissance manifesto of the possibilities of the human intellect. it not only prohibits any military use or territorial appropriation of space, but also establishes that every human undertaking outside the atmosphere should be carried out under the flag of peace and progress. why do we not extend this global pact to our continent, too?
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the gahler group: it is easy to be in favour of initiatives that promote peace and security in the world; in fact, good intentions are not enough to guarantee the result. treaties and conferences have not prevented some countries, most recently north korea, from acquiring nuclear weapons. even sanctions, however severe, cannot stop iran, which is also a signatory to the non-proliferation treaty. the real challenge is to prevent new countries from acquiring nuclear weapons and stocks of enriched uranium from falling into the hands of international terrorism. the financial times reports that 50 tons of uranium currently in syria could be transferred with some ease by air to other countries. situations like this represent an urgent and serious problem which merits greater international commitment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for some 40 years the international community has been striving to create a zone free of weapons of mass destruction. the first proposal was made in 1974. the middle east is currently a zone of tensions and unresolved conflicts, and many states in the region have signed and acceded to international conventions and protocols on non-proliferation, including chemical and biological weapons, but in a substantially heterogeneous way. in addition, the international economic and financial crisis has aggravated the situation, causing controversial effects in the arms race: there are countries, especially western countries, many of them in the european union, which have adopted austerity measures in relation to their national defence and security budgets in order to stabilise their budget deficits. meanwhile, other countries, especially in north africa and the middle east, have increased their investment in arms considerably. the reasons are varied: they've increased them because of the controversial issue of iran's nuclear program. because there are revolts or real civil wars, such as in syria, but not only, egypt, bahrain, tunisia, yemen; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. so the 2013 conference is yet another opportunity to create a gun-free zone and to re-establish a climate of mutual trust and cooperation. we therefore hope that the high representative will do her utmost to ensure that the efforts made so far are not in vain.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, mr commissioner, i am starting from the assumption that this agreement, even if it is temporary, will bring europe and this part of africa closer together. the new framework will not in any way affect the sovereignty of the contracting parties, it will provide a framework for mutual opportunities and it will strengthen the dialogue that is so necessary. i would even say that an epa can also be a form of conflict prevention, development, strengthening of state instruments, such as an efficient tax administration, gradual integration at the speed that each country will then want to give it freely in a wider world, whereas the alternative to epas are bilateral agreements, with sometimes questionable political counterbalances or policies that are effective immediately but globally doubtful, such as those of china's african penetration. the epc must also be an opportunity for greater democracy, and that is the meaning of the accompanying resolution on zimbabwe, a regime which is closer to this agreement commercially but which, we hope, will thereby be more politically conditioned to respect the freedom of its own citizens. in other places, for example in mali, we are now dealing with a large-scale international military intervention and we are making serious mistakes, mainly of inertia, of lack of prevention, which we have already discussed here in parliament. an economic partnership agreement must also serve to offer mutual protection of stability, beyond tariffs and quotas, giving meaning to the word 'partnership' in the most political sense. the conclusion of an interim epa, however, is only a stage victory in the face of over 10 years of negotiations which have so far produced what we know: the commission has already made a number of proposals. you touch a nerve here: the european parliament has so far failed to explain its reasons, perhaps only addressing the small table of negotiators and failing to understand that, given the importance of an economic partnership agreement, it is necessary to be able to speak to broad sectors of a society which has its historical reasons for being wary: journalists, students, academics, trade unionists, and the public. that's the work that's left to do after the vote tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss these matters, we always run the risk of missing the real objective we have to set ourselves. first of all, change our approach and our mindset towards africa and the poorest countries. what was once a concession, almost a favour granted by the powerful, the 'rich epulon', that is europe, to the poorer countries, has now become an agreement, a pact which makes it possible to improve conditions in that part of the world and at the same time to create the conditions for a reciprocal relationship, in which privileged access to european markets is now guaranteed for the poorer countries, and at the same time europe will also be able to gradually penetrate those markets. it is certainly a form of common growth between a great world power, the world's leading economic power, which is europe, and on the other hand some of the poorest countries in africa. on the other hand, as mr rinaldi has already said, in other parts of this part of the world, different attitudes cause far greater damage than we are doing with the clear improvement that we are bringing about with these interim partnership agreements. i would also like to stress, as mr lange has already mentioned, the protection of the rights contained in the cotonou agreements and the possibility that this agreement will pave the way for the accession of new countries to these agreements, which are therefore an extremely positive element in relations between the european union and africa at this time.
i believe that the important question of rules of origin is fundamental to the determination of the national origin of products. we know that the criteria used at international level are different: but i would not say - as mr fjellner has said - that when the rules work they do not change, because it is precisely this different interpretation at international level of the criteria that creates the objective difficulties that must be overcome. it is therefore becoming increasingly important that the wto members also achieve harmonization. at the wto level, negotiations are under way to harmonize rules of origin, the aim being precisely to achieve harmonization of the rules of origin and to avoid creating unnecessary obstacles to international trade. the criterion of the last substantial transformation is valid today: but the imco committee is in the process of reforming the customs code. in that committee an amendment was adopted on the basis of the principle that the criterion currently used has so far given good results at customs level and, according to that criterion, goods in whose production two or more countries have contributed are considered to originate in the country where they underwent the last substantial and economically justified processing carried out in an undertaking equipped for that purpose, which resulted in the manufacture of a new product and represented an important stage in the manufacturing process. the commission is considering the possibility of making the definition of 'last substantial transformation' more precise and more specific for certain sectors. we also suggested that the commission should be empowered, by means of delegated acts, to identify certain commodity sectors which may require a plurality of processing operations to identify the country of origin. it is a question which needs to be dealt with more fully and more fully, because today there are difficulties of interpretation and each country ends up applying within itself interpretations which are related to its own history and not to what is in the community's interest in the broad sense. we therefore support the european commission's efforts to harmonize these rules and at the same time call for strong action to be taken to clarify and reduce the number of disputes in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's intervention in the modernisation of the existing rules on the definition of origin is very important and necessary, and i think it would be wrong to underestimate the negative effects which have increased over time as a result of the different regulations which exist in the member states. the difficulties have increased: it's not true that the system as it is today works. then we must prevent the situation from getting worse. to do this, we must regulate the matter differently and i think it is very important to take account of the spirit in which, for example, the committee on the internal market has proposed a solution to extend the rule, with a number of clarifications. the last substantial transformation must be just that: it is not enough to change the buttons on a shirt to attribute the mark of origin to it. we must give substance and define with the greatest possible rigor and precision what we really mean by 'final substantial transformation'. otherwise, unfair competition will override the positive behaviour of the majority of our business partners.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to very briefly respond to a number of observations that have been made. let me start by a number of questions that have been put by mr fjellner. the problem is that the origin, as determined by third countries with which the eu has no bilateral agreement such as for example an fta, cannot be accepted for the implementation of the eu’s trade policy at import. this is because such third countries do not apply the same non-preferential rules as the eu and there is no procedure for cooperation or verification. it makes no sense for the eu to accept this as it would undermine our capacity to negotiate in the wto. as you rightly mentioned, mr fjellner, things have become much more difficult than before because it is now the exception that a good is produced in one single country, so it is very important on the one hand that we are precise on this and secondly, with countries where we have no possibility of dispute settlement for example, that we should be the final judge on what come on to our markets. ms koch-mehrin, we acknowledge the position taken by the committee on international trade on the customs code and we look forward to starting the trialogue on this file as soon as possible. pour répondre à la question de m. proust, je confirme que la commission est fermement engagée à poursuivre ses efforts en faveur de l'harmonisation des règles d'origine, à l'échelle internationale. finally, i would like to thank all the participants in the debate for the views expressed. as i said earlier, we want to make it clearer, not more difficult, for traders both on the export and on the import side. origin determination of goods exported from the eu will continue to be done as today. the change in the union customs code makes this absolutely clear. you are right that this may cause problems with a number of countries we are exporting to, but this is inevitable because in the end it is those countries of destination that are going to decide on the origin of goods. for imports to the eu, we are still reflecting on the appropriate implementing provisions and it is in the interest of european producers to be sure that any measures adopted for their defence are applied correctly throughout the european union. let me just make one last remark. as i already mentioned in my introduction, we are in the midst of this very important negotiation on trade facilitation. for this purpose i believe it is extremely important that we have harmonised rules so that we can present ourselves as a real bloc in these negotiations, and also afterwards in the implementation of an agreement if it were to come about – and i hope it will come about, because it would be a very big contribution to doing away with red tape. it is a win-win situation for sure, but it is also a win-win situation where the european union would be one of the biggest beneficiaries.
in writing. regulating the non-preferential origin of goods entering the european union has always been a priority of this parliament, a priority never understood by the council, and one which affects our customs as much as the health and productivity of our citizens. we do not agree with the rigid set of rules which the commission has drawn up to ensure greater legal certainty in imports because these rules increase the confusion of our businesses and expose us to an unmanageable situation between different national laws for imports and exports to third countries. the legal certainty which the commission is trying to introduce is thus transformed into procedural uncertainty with the consequent increase in unfair competition and counterfeiting. in the report on the modernisation of customs, this parliament has already expressed itself in favour of the status quo for rules of origin while it has strongly called for a harmonized control system, which reduces the existing bureaucracy and at the same time monitors goods entering the internal market from any european customs. we therefore ask the commission to concentrate on customs harmonization and on a single regulation for the rules of origin for both exported and imported products.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the rules on the carriage of cabin baggage, as they have been applied up to now, are too fragmented and disorganized. in this context, the charges imposed by certain air carriers appear to be restrictive, excessive, not always justified and limiting the possibility for passengers to buy goods, in particular within the airport itself. these rules therefore restrict the rights of air passengers and feed into the aggressive commercial practices of certain carriers, generating a significant loss for the airport retail market, one of the main sources of revenue for airports, especially for regional and secondary airports. i therefore believe it is essential to propose, at european level and then also at global level, through close cooperation and dialogue with icao, harmonised guidelines on the size and weight and number of hand and hold baggage on european union flights, including therefore also purchases made at airports. it is also important to implement a consistent, fairer and clearer pricing policy in order to avoid abuses to the detriment of passengers and the quality of the service provided. it is not enough, commissioner, to try to guarantee the maximum information, as you have given us in answer to this problem. i think more can be done, and i am not satisfied with your answer: i would urge you to go further with greater determination.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you for this very interesting debate. the number of speeches makes it clear that this is something that is sensitive. i would like to thank you all for the interest shown in this issue and would like to continue working on policies which support passengers’ interests as well as promoting subtle mechanisms to pave the way for the better enforcement of existing transparency legislation. as i said in the introductory remarks, there will soon be a review of air passengers’ rights. legislation will be presented by commissioner kallas during the first half of 2013, and now is probably the time to have a more in-depth discussion of all these items that were introduced and commented on. having said this, i think it is very important – and this comes through in a lot of the speeches – that there is more transparency, there is more predictability because sometimes you can end up in rather difficult situations. i would like to add that commissioner kallas very much wanted to participate personally in today’s debate, but a last-minute change in the running order of this week’s agenda prevented that. i will refer all the questions that you have put to him and i am sure that he will come back to them in the debate on air passenger rights.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the regulation on the compulsory marking of origin for certain products imported from third countries, by vital moreira and cristiana muscardini, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000217/2012 - b7-0552/2012)
author of the book. - mr commissioner, you have heard the questions put to you by mr moreira and you know that the globalised market brings development if the rules are certain, common and shared. the freedom of enterprise, trade and competition must be guaranteed, above all within the world trade organization, which cannot say that there are either a- or b-class consumers and producers, depending on the country or continent in which they live and operate. if our most important economic competitors such as china, the united states, canada and brazil have internal rules requiring a designation of origin for a range of products coming from abroad, europe also has the right to have such a rule and therefore the duty to introduce a regulation for the designation of origin of certain non-eu products, as parliament voted on at first reading in october 2010. either europe has this regulation or the wto must be asked to intervene to have this rule abolished in the countries where it exists. there can be no double standards: there can be no fair and globalised market if some are favoured and others disadvantaged. and europe cannot be fair to its consumers, citizens or producers if it is not able to defend rights alongside duties. the european consumers have the right to make an informed choice and the european manufacturing system, the backbone of our economic and competitive capacity, has the right to the same attention from the european institutions as the institutions give to producers and consumers in china, the united states, etc. we ask the commission to put an end to the delay in the regulation and to allow a serious and democratic debate to take place between parliament, the council and the commission. parliament has no arrogance to say that what it has voted is immutable and open to verification and comparison. but we strongly urge that there be no arrogance on the part of the commission or the council, as has happened on this regrettable occasion, when the commission did not even think of giving the committee on international trade and the rapporteurs timely notice of its intention to withdraw, nor did it ever fully promote a meeting, even informal, between the three institutions to see what honourable compromises could be made. we therefore call for mutual respect in the interests of the citizens and for a clarifying meeting to be held to resolve this longstanding problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, other members have already mentioned the institutional vulnus which has been introduced by this proposal for withdrawal by the commission. we welcomed, commissioner, your initiative three years ago to re-propose the 'made in' regulation after the institutional change brought about by the lisbon treaty, in order to involve this parliament in an active phase, having become a co-legislator. we have difficulty grasping the real reasons for his change of attitude: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. so it is not even correct to say that the proposal is seven years old. it was formally proposed three years ago. was voted in october 2010; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and it is therefore the proposal that was voted on after an interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the commission, which redefined the relationship between the two institutions. i also think it is wrong to appeal to those in civil society who are against the introduction of these rules, because it calls into question the centrality of this parliament as the representative of the complex interests that are articulated in the territory of the union, which is made up of 500 million people. in this connection, we would remind you, commissioner, that large sectors of manufacturing industry, which are at the heart of the crisis, which are the only guarantee for boosting real competitiveness and growth in the european union and ensuring adequate levels of employment at this time of crisis, are calling for the introduction of this regulation not for protectionism, as you have said, but to re-create conditions of reciprocity with other countries. a new legislative initiative, using the terms of the united states of america's legislation, would be sufficient to solve the problem as a whole: we therefore ask you not to insist on withdrawing this proposal and instead to encourage a discussion with the council and parliament, if only to adapt it to the new requirements which have arisen in the meantime.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we know that this regulation would still provide some information, perhaps not as a priority, but as an extra for consumers. we know that similar arrangements exist elsewhere in the world (there are in china, in the united states, in canada, in mexico, in japan and so on). we know that parliament has managed to get a large majority, despite the deep hesitations of colleagues within it who had governments, industrial reference systems who were sceptical about this measure. and we know that the great support we had two years ago was based on three things: a regulation applying to a limited number of products; which applies to the finished product sold to the consumer and which has a duration of five years, a pilot project; we know that there is room for change and for negotiation in the world trade organization. we know that protectionism has nothing to do with this case. we know that interinstitutional relations must be based on mutual respect, where withdrawal is not unexpected. what we do not know is whether at the end of these five years not parliament, which i believe has done its job, but the commission and above all the council will be able to come forward and offer what is one of the few concrete measures in favour of the business world which has not wanted to relocate, which has insisted on keeping production lines in our territories. there is a waiting period and it seems to me that too many people are now unwilling to take responsibility. it is clear that this is a work which must be prepared, for example with trade associations mediated an internal comparison in some countries have also had deep lacerations; it is clear that we need governments which are not only supportive in words but are able to take initiatives bilaterally and therefore within the european union to prepare the ground. it is also clear that we must also be active within the world trade organisation. but i think that parliament has so far been able to show that it is capable of listening, of recognizing and of being legitimate in this part of europe, where the institutions legislate on everything, on everything, even on the individual luggage when you take a plane, but where, on the contrary, they show too much fear in regard to an essential measure which touches the heart of our industrial world.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i also want to say to those who may be following us on the internet: yesterday we remembered 112 workers who died in bangladesh, many of them women and many of them children, while they were packing textiles for a dollar a day that are then sold in our house. but that is not what europe is interested in: a minute of silence and then off we go. we don't know what we buy, what we consume, what we wear. i don't know if this golf club was made in my house, in milan or in como, or by a child in bangladesh. the european commission does not want me to know, nor does it want me to know, nor does it want 500 million europeans to know. you don't care about that. the european commission prefers to listen to the multinationals, to certain governments in northern europe, to great britain, the netherlands, germany, sweden, to those who have taken their production to china, to the multinationals. some in europe are interested in invading us with the fruits and vegetables of morocco, the shoes of pakistan: and who cares if thousands of companies close down? who cares if tens of thousands of workers are staying home? who cares if thousands of businesses fail? these are jobs in europe, but some people are happy that there are jobs elsewhere, because paying a child a dollar a day in bangladesh is probably more profitable than paying a worker 50 euros a day in milan or como. so don't do the trivial thing, which is not telling us where our stuff is made. china, the united states, brazil, mexico, japan are doing it: but we don't. we are not, because we are protectionists! we can't do that! i'm giving up. then some people are surprised that the citizens do not understand europe and stay away from europe. if this is europe, the europe of dead children in bangladesh and of our businesses in lombardy closing down, if this is the europe of the multinationals and the mario monti, then god save us from this europe.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr fjellner, i think i understand that only the easy things can be done: since it is difficult to indicate the origin of a product which has a production material coming from one country, a processing taking place in another and a processing end in another, then we do not have to indicate it. europe only does the easy things: europe does not do complicated things. we're here to do the simple things. since it is difficult to explain to consumers where a product comes from, we should not put the mark that indicates and designates the origin of the product. it seems like a big cliché. mr fjellner, would it not seem more correct to say that you, in the interests of your country, of the companies in your country which obviously do not produce, and of a non-productive reality such as the one you perhaps represent, have no interest in the trademark of origin? it would perhaps be more correct to have this kind of position here in the chamber.
madam president, commissioner, at this stage of the debate almost all the arguments have been made in favour of this regulation being allowed to continue, but i think this is a debate on rules of origin and information on origin, but above all on transparency. and i want to emphasize basically what this means for small and mediumsized enterprises, smes, in the european union. we know, because this parliament says so every day in its reports, that they represent 99% of the companies, that their turnover is half of the turnover of the whole european union and that they have helped to create 80% of the last jobs. so we have an obligation to ensure that these companies, which are the ones that enrich the economy and create jobs, have fair competition in relation to imported products. that is why i ask you, commissioner, to reconsider withdrawing this regulation, because all we are going to do is to unprotect our companies, not to help the growth of the european union and not to help create more jobs. and we also need this regulation because our consumers want to know what they are consuming, where it is coming from, and that the social standards of the european union are preserved, are preserved here and are preserved in third countries. i therefore ask you to reconsider your decision to withdraw this regulation. if it needs to be changed, it will be changed, but don't leave it out.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to withdraw the regulation came as a bolt from the blue, and you understand, commissioner, that this is not a good sign in the interinstitutional relations between the commission and parliament. the reasons are unclear: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but even his words showed that he was not convinced of the scope of this regulation. the issue of costs, the risk of protectionism, all unreal motives, have emerged. i think that the commission is simply incapable of being consistent with itself in going forward on this road. i'll tell you what, commissioner: the european parliament has also been the subject of anti-european and populist rhetoric in this house, and unfortunately also from representatives of my own country. if the commission continues to be so absent, so reluctant on this subject and, in fact, to defend a few private interests instead of protecting citizens and consumers, you will only be feeding these tones and attitudes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner has told us that there is no prospect of a compromise between the institutions. who said that, commissioner? who has tried to find a way of bringing the three institutions together so that a compromise can be sought? he said it doesn't apply to domestic products: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we ask that the withdrawal be suspended in order to analyse the situation of other countries with similar regulations and, through this analysis, to submit to us any amendments to the proposals we have already voted on, if indeed you are convinced that this proposal does not correspond to the current wto mechanism. but we are convinced that there cannot be countries with regulations and countries without regulations in the wto, because there cannot be fair trade and fair competition where the rules are different and penalize some. you also said that parliament can express its opinion before the commission actually decides to withdraw. we take note of your statement and we want to believe that you are aware of it and convinced of it, because parliament is expressing its opinion today and will express it in a very clear vote. we therefore ask you to suspend your withdrawal, to take parliament's opinion as a commitment to resume the institutional dialogue, to initiate a meeting - even if informal at first - with the other institutions to assess any need for amendments and valid and shared solutions for an honourable compromise. because you, commissioner, represent europe and must defend europe's interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2010 the european parliament voted by 529 votes to approve the regulation on the compulsory designation of origin and the commission cannot and must not withdraw it in the face of such a large vote! the compulsory indication of origin for certain products is essential. mr commissioner, in the south of italy, in my own country, in puglia, calabria, campania, molise and basilicata, we are being invaded by chinese products and thousands of firms, small firms, have closed, creating tens and hundreds of thousands of unemployed. a baby shower produced in china has a retail price equal to one third of what the production cost is in italy; but to that cost must be added the social costs, the exploitation of children, impossible working hours, no protection for the health of workers, the environment, children, women workers. we all in europe, including you, mr commissioner, know why textiles, footwear and manufacturing products imported from non-eu countries have such low and competitive costs: because the workers are treated like slaves. can we at least make it compulsory to indicate the country of origin? can we at least give the consumer the chance to know where a product is made? by withdrawing the proposal for a regulation, mr commissioner, whose interests will you be serving? companies that produce legally or crooks who counterfeit? the small and mediumsized textile, footwear and clothing industries which create jobs and development in european cities or the multinationals which produce outside europe without respecting european standards? will you serve the interests of companies that pay workers a fair and dignified wage and guarantee their rights or those that exploit workers in developing countries, treating them like slaves? for once, mr commissioner, do what is in the interests of the european people. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear to everyone that the council - which i note is absent - and the european commission are no longer particularly interested in safeguarding and protecting their own citizens, whose opinion matters very little. parliament represents the people who elect it, and this parliament has been clear on this point. the purpose of this regulation was precisely to give consumers greater security and awareness of their choices and to fight better against the counterfeiting and falsification that are invading our market. the logic of the big northern countries, which have no interest in defending the manufacturing sector, and which for us represents an excellence to be protected, has obviously prevailed. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the two issues go hand in hand and i see a clear intention on the part of some to go against the quality marks and guarantees of origin. i hope that all the work done will not be wasted but that an agreement can be reached, including with the wto. parliament is pushing in this direction and the commission cannot remain deaf to our demands, to the will of the people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the commissioner's statements on the withdrawal of this proposal, besides raising doubts as to its legal legitimacy, are disappointing from two points of view. the first is that this backsliding is in addition to the silence that the council has maintained on this subject for years, refusing to discuss it. the role of parliament in the decision-making process is thus greatly diminished, to the detriment of this institution. it is a lack of respect - nothing but bureaucracy! - it is a lack of respect for all the citizens whom the european parliament represents democratically. the second aspect is the lack of a coherent organic regulation to prevent this invasion of low-cost products from third countries. this is to the great detriment of consumers, who can easily be deceived about the quality of the products they buy. we have a duty to move towards ever more effective control and this regulation is an important step in that direction. to drop it is to give up this battle. i therefore believe that the commission should review its position and allow the legislative process to run its course, encouraging rather than hindering dialogue between the co-legislators.
member of the commission. − madam president, may i thank everyone who has taken part in this very lively debate so early in the morning. first of all, there have been a lot of questions about the wto. the rulings of the wto are quite clear. there are several by the wto appellate body that provide clarifications regarding the rules applicable to origin-marking schemes, and have led the commission to conclude that the 2005 proposal is outdated, in particular because it treated imported and domestic goods differently. for example, it proposed compulsory origin marking only for imported goods. in early october 2012, the commission reported on these clarifications to the council and to parliament. what does the wto appellate body say, in a nutshell? the wto appellate body showed that it was ready to examine origin-marking schemes in light of the provisions of the wto agreement on technical barriers to trade, something that was unclear beforehand. this could be interpreted as meaning that origin-marking schemes must comply among other things with the ‘most favoured nation’ clause and national treatment provisions of the technical barriers to trade agreement. in particular, products of foreign origin should be accorded no less favourable treatment than domestic products. the recent jurisprudence has therefore made more salient the issue of application to imported goods only as per the current proposal on the table. this would now be very difficult to justify in light of the interpretation of the national treatment provision of the technical barriers to trade agreements. some people have commented about the other countries. i do not accept that argument because what we are doing in the wto and also in all of our negotiations, be they bilateral or plurilateral, is putting a lot of emphasis on technical barriers to trade and how to remove them. for the mature economy that we have, this is very important. it is even more important than tariffs. so you cannot, on the one hand, be advocate making away with all kinds of technical barriers to trade and on the other hand say if it is about ‘made in’ then we close our eyes and there is no problem. so the argument that the others do it; the others are behaving badly; why should we not behave in the same way? – that is not the right way to act, especially as one of the main partners of the wto. the earl of dartmouth made an interesting remark that it should be ‘made in germany’ or ‘made in italy’ – but he left, probably for dartmouth. but there are no rules of origin in the european union. we are an internal market. so you would really be facing a problem if it were a compulsory scheme, as it would be against the internal market rules. a french product, mr shadow rapporteur, does not exist any more; it is a european product. by the way, are we going to have all kinds of informal origin rules within the european union so that we can decide one way or another that a bigger part of the product comes from germany or portugal instead of italy? that can never be the case. so in any case it should be ‘made in europe’ and maybe you can then add another word for marking the member state concerned. the right of initiative means that the commission also has the authority to withdraw a proposal; that is part of the right of initiative. the right of initiative does not only mean that you can present something; it also means that you can withdraw something. it gives the commission a power of management and we have exercised this in the right way because we mentioned it to parliament; it is part of the proposal that we are making for the 2013 working programme and we are discussing it this morning. i have listened very carefully to all the remarks which have been made. the statement that we would no longer have the possibility to withdraw something – that does not make sense. that would be against the european treaties and it would also be against the authority of the european commission which is, i believe, very important if you want to maintain the right balance between the institutions. i am not pleased with the position of the council either. we have tried repeatedly to discuss it with them and they have never really been ready to do so. but it is also obvious that we are not going to find a majority any time soon in the council. that is very clear and i would have preferred that they were present. mr lange, you put the question: are you in favour of the council or are you in favour of parliament? do not do that; that is not what it is about. we are ready to find a solution but it should be the right one. mr moreira said: why do you not change your proposal in the course of the procedure? do you really mean, mr moreira, as a leading scholar on constitutional law, that we could in the course of the procedure change the legal basis; change the whole content and in fact modify it completely? no, i think if we do that – and we will look into it – then we should come with a new proposal. whether there is enough support for such a new proposal remains to be seen. but it would not be the right practice if we were to do this within the current procedure; if we had a debate in a university you would agree on that. j'ai aussi été taxé de libéralisme. oui, monsieur jadot, je suis un libéral. mais ici, je représente la commission, et la commission est un collège. ce n'est donc pas mon opinion, c'est l'opinion de la commission. par ailleurs, vous avez parfois tendance à confondre libéralisme et capitalisme. ce n'est pas la même chose, mais ce n'est pas le moment d'en débattre. j'en viens à un certain nombre de remarques qui ont été faites sur le bangladesh. certains disent: "c'est quand même scandaleux tout cela. ces produits sont fabriqués au bangladesh, où on verse aux gens – des garçons et des jeunes filles – des salaires qui sont ignobles et ils et elles doivent travailler dans des conditions complètement inacceptables." c'est vrai! do not mix that up with origin-marking. it does not have anything to do with that. if we did not give them a possibility to export to our markets we would be really protectionist, and i do not think that would be a very humanitarian approach either. but we have to find the right balance there. that is in brief – although not particularly briefly – what i wanted to say on this. yes, we are going to go ahead and withdraw the proposal, but we will actively look into a new one. we will discuss that with you. i am ready to have that discussion, mr moreira, in the committee on international trade – not next week but within a reasonable timeframe. but you should also recognise that it is not an easy matter. i think we have to introduce mandatory marking of origin for imported products and for domestically produced products. i wonder whether we could do it for domestically produced products alone. perhaps that is more compatible with wto rules. it is obvious that then you would have a lot of discussions with the industry but – ok – that is what democracies do discuss. i am ready to look at other solutions, but this is not the right one. it is on course to fail, it will never work out and i think the only reasonable political response to that is to withdraw it.
i have received four motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 115 (1) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the european commission's decision to withdraw the proposal for a regulation on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries risks undermining the guarantee of indication of origin and thus the traceability of products imported from third countries in the single market, at least for the sectors already covered by the regulation. the withdrawal of this proposal will have the greatest impact on european consumers and producers, who are already suffering heavily from the exponential increase in counterfeiting, which is destroying hundreds of thousands of jobs and affecting manufacturing industry without adequate means of combating it. i hope that the commission has planned further measures to make the regulation compatible with the wto requirements and that it intends to involve parliament in the subsequent stages.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the state of eu-mercosur trade relations, by vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000218/2012 - b7-0553/2012).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's position on this matter is clear and that the european parliament's position is not distorted. we know it's not just a trade issue. the relationship between europe and this part of latin america is fully integrated into the review of relations between europe and the other atlantic powers. in a highly competitive and increasingly globalised world, europe needs strategic alliances. the agreements we have concluded with mexico, chile, colombia and peru were mentioned: i believe that the european union has every interest in taking a strong initiative towards this region of the world, to create the largest free trade area in the world. we know what the obstacles are, obstacles which do not come from the european union: i am very pleased with the work that the commission has done so far. i also appreciate the way in which parliament is informed. i think, however, that we must be very firm in pointing out the limitations that have emerged in recent years from certain countries, especially argentina, without forgetting the protectionist initiatives launched by brazil, which are an obstacle to the resumption of this strategy, which is political as well as commercial. once again trade is at the forefront of a political strategy that the european union must put into place. we therefore want to give it a signal of support as a parliament, so that the negotiations can be resumed and an exchange of offers can be reached soon, so that they can continue.
mr president, in the light of the many long and fruitless negotiations that have taken place over the last two years, we can certainly consider this comparison between the european union and mercosur on agricultural products to be rather tired. on the one hand, mercosur is pushing for greater access to the european market for its own agricultural products, while on the other, the european union is seeking to secure trade facilitation for processed products and services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the real risk lies with farmers, who are subject to negotiated decisions and strategies in relation to other sectors. this is a very damaging bargain for the european agricultural sector, for which we are deciding, with the new common agricultural policy, to maintain the high priority of ensuring that consumers have healthy and traceable products and that farmers have conditions which do not undermine the competitiveness of agricultural products on european markets. i hope, therefore, that in this case, as in the other negotiations and in the other and many bilateral agreements which the european union is negotiating, european agriculture will not be sacrificed on the altar of a forced agreement, as it seems to me is happening in the case of the agreement between mercosur and the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership and cooperation agreement signed last may is in some ways historic, since it constitutes the first contractual relationship between the european union and iraq. the agreement will undoubtedly foster a stable political dialogue and provide a legal framework to facilitate investment and trade policies and cooperation in a number of areas. in view of the difficult situation in which iraq was forced to find itself until a few years ago, i think it is appropriate to include provisions on respect for human rights, the fight against terrorism and the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, which, if not respected, would lead to the suspension of the agreement.
in writing. - as rapporteur for the resolution on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and iraq, i voted in favour of the agreement because i am fully convinced that this agreement, developed not only in the commercial field, will enable the european union to play a key role in safeguarding the fundamental rights of democracy in iraqi territory.
in writing. the partnership and cooperation agreement signed last may is in some ways 'historic' as it constitutes the first contractual relationship between the european union and iraq. the agreement will undoubtedly foster a stable political dialogue and provide a legal framework to facilitate investment, trade policies and cooperation in a number of areas. in view of the difficult situation in which iraq was forced to find itself until a few years ago, i think it is appropriate to include provisions on respect for human rights, the fight against terrorism and the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, which, if not respected, would lead to the suspension of the agreement.
in writing. - mr president, i share the need to support the republic of iraq in its post-war transition towards stability, democracy and the rule of law. the partnership agreement, which is the first contractual relationship established between the european union and iraq, is an important instrument for establishing a long-term and constant dialogue with the country. a country that has certainly made a lot of progress but still has many challenges to face: the promotion and effective protection of human rights, in particular the protection of religious minorities and the most vulnerable sections of the population, such as women and children; the fight against terrorism; access to basic services for the population, to name just a few. the european union has an important task to help iraq to re-establish itself in the context of international relations.
in writing. − i support this resolution because i believe that the conclusion of the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement will provide the eu with a new framework in which to develop long-term political and economic relations with iraq and create strong foundations for the promotion and respect of human rights in the country. with this text we express our concerns regarding the need to resolve the humanitarian problems in the country. it is also important to stress that any coordinated action between the iraqi authorities and the international aid organisations is taken with a view to assisting vulnerable groups and creating suitable conditions to ensure their security and dignity. in addition, we stress that despite a significant improvement in the security situation, the current rate of bombings and shootings is still high and violence occurs every day, leaving most iraqis uncertain about their future and making it impossible to promote the economic and social integration of the iraqi population at large. for these reasons the eu should tailor the use of its resources to the specific internal, regional and humanitarian challenges facing iraq in order to create the condition for a real promotion of human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr mauro's report because i believe that the spirit of solidarity and the concrete planning of aid for those countries which are going through difficult moments of democratic transition are part of the prerogatives and principles of the union we represent. in the case of iraq, the rubble of dictatorship is still alive in civil society and the process of democratic constitution is not an easy process but, on the contrary, requires informed decisions and choices. the eu must play its part in this process, taking into account the needs of the iraqi people for a revival, but also ensuring that the right contribution of solidarity does not become a disadvantage for european industrial operators.
in writing. the eu and iraq have reached an agreement of historic importance. it comes at a crucial time to accompany, in the coming years, the democratic transition in iraq, the challenges of reconstruction and development and the return of iraq to its sovereignty. the eu must fully support the iraqi people and their authorities, who will face numerous challenges, primarily those related to the security and stability of the country. at present, violence remains a threatening and looming reality and the risks of degeneration and resumption of civil war cannot be excluded and religious minorities, particularly christian minorities, are particularly exposed to dangers. the agreement, concluded for a renewable period of 10 years, aims to provide a solid basis for strengthening ties between iraq and the eu, as well as for the establishment of an annual dialogue on issues such as peace, foreign and security policy, democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance. the agreement also contains clauses on combating terrorism, combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and combating the illicit trade in arms; the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in iraq.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the interim economic partnership agreement (epa) will allow the four countries of the eastern and southern africa region (madagascar, seychelles, mauritius and zimbabwe) to continue to benefit from 100 % duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market. i consider that this agreement will be an important step towards enhancing the partnership between the eu and the four african countries concerned, aimed at encouraging increased open and fair trade, investment and regional integration. as for the concerns over the human rights situation in zimbabwe, i believe that the interim epa will allow the eu to exert further influence on that country. indeed with this text we call on the eu delegation in harare to continue to offer its assistance to zimbabwe’s government of national unity in order to hold peaceful and credible elections in line with the standards the eu would expect of any of its trading partners.
in writing. − while the current situation in zimbabwe with regard to human rights and democracy has shown signs of improvement, there are still many challenges to be addressed with regard to future cooperation between the union and zimbabwe, in particular the full implementation of the comprehensive political agreement (cpa) and the elimination of all forms of harassment and abuse of human rights. the continued violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the state undermine the commitments made in recent years by the government of national unity of zimbabwe, and in particular the recent incidents of harassment of human rights defenders, journalists and members of civil society in the country. the government of zimbabwe should take all necessary measures to ensure that no one is harassed or intimidated because of their commitment to human rights issues.
in writing. - the interim economic partnership agreements which provide for trade openness with the states with which these agreements have been concluded do not, in my view, represent a danger to our production system. nor will they be an opportunity. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain on the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the states of eastern and southern africa, on the one hand, and the european community and its member states, on the other. this agreement, which allows duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for imports from mauritius, madagascar, the seychelles and zimbabwe, does not represent a risk for our companies, but it does not represent an opportunity for the production system in the padang.
in writing. the agreement is the first economic partnership agreement to be concluded with a group of african countries (including mozambique, zimbabwe, seychelles and mauritius). it is signed on an interim basis, i.e. concluded with a view to a wider and more comprehensive agreement, and in substance it contains elements of asymmetric liberalisation of goods, which take account of the different strengths and wealth of the partners involved. so, despite some concerns about the fragile political stability of zimbabwe, i welcome the important diplomatic success that this agreement represents for the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too have asked to speak because i think that this subject, which is so delicate in ordinary times, is particularly delicate and sensitive in extraordinary times of crisis, when citizens rightly ask for support. but citizens' money must be handled and spent with greater care and attention, transparency, speed and efficiency, so that it can become a driver of employment, growth and competitiveness, thus ensuring the smooth functioning of the market. i agree with jo leinen: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i really hope that agreements will be reached and that the treaty can be put into effect to solve this democratic deficit which we cannot afford.
in writing. - mr president, although rules are needed to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market by limiting distortions of competition, state aid can play an important role in helping member states to regain competitiveness, employment and growth. reflection on these instruments is needed to improve the quality of public spending in a context of limited resources and where member states have limited room for manoeuvre on public budgets. in addition, a streamlined regulatory framework and the definition of a few clear rules could lead to faster decisions, which would benefit businesses. i share the rapporteur's disappointment: the european parliament must be fully involved as a co-legislator and not merely consulted on a matter of such importance to european citizens.
in writing. - i am in favour of the motion for a resolution on the modernisation of state aid and the new proposals for regulations. the europe 2020 growth strategy recognises the role of state aid for growth and its capacity to make an active and constructive contribution to the europe 2020 objectives by stimulating and supporting initiatives on more innovative, more efficient and greener technologies, while facilitating access to public support for investment, venture capital and research and development funding. the modernisation of state aid can improve the functioning of the internal market through a more effective policy aimed at limiting distortions of competition, maintaining a level playing field and countering protectionism. this role of state aid is now becoming more important as the full potential of the internal market must be exploited for growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the working conditions in the textile factories in bangladesh are totally unsafe and we should try to put an end to this situation. in november 2012, 123 workers perished and more than 150 were injured when fire broke out at a textile factory in the bangladeshi capital, dhaka. there are some 4 500 factories in bangladesh, employing more than two million people, many of which operate with minimal safeguards against fire or industrial accidents. the european market is the largest export destination for bangladeshi apparel and textile products. this is the reason why with this resolution we call on the bangladeshi government to ensure the safety of workers by establishing an efficient and impartial labour inspection system for industrial buildings. most of all, we ask all the various multinationals to stop working with suppliers which refuse to carry out repairs necessary to ensure the complete safety of their workforce.
in writing. the european union calls on the government of the democratic republic of the congo to take all necessary measures to ensure that the elections in the country are held in accordance with the democratic principles of the country. i cannot but agree with all that, but i would like to clarify a few points. firstly, i wonder why we and a few others often denounce the agreements which the european union has concluded with many asian countries: i have repeatedly stressed that we should seek agreements which strictly enforce compliance with certain social rules and standards, which are always being ignored. it is obviously easier and more profitable to make people work as slaves in extremely dangerous conditions for a starvation wage, and many european multinationals are complicit in this, too, by relocating to these countries. the work may have become too expensive in our country, but there are rules that must be respected, and incidents like the one in bangladesh would be less likely to happen. i hope, therefore, that these painful events will also open the eyes of the european union, so that we can demand greater guarantees in the trade agreements we conclude, and perhaps we will be able to save more lives in these countries and more jobs in our own.
in writing. − i strongly support this resolution because it is important to deplore, and give a strong signal from the eu side, the postponement of the conference on the establishment of a middle east zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction, which was scheduled for december 2012. a middle east wmd-free zone could offer compelling strategic benefits to the region and to the world at large. moreover, the cancellation of such a conference could have a negative impact on regional security and international denuclearisation efforts. it is important to stress that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and their means of delivery, represents one of the most serious threats to international peace and security. for all these reasons, with this text we urge the un secretary-general, the un facilitator, the sponsors of the 1995 resolution on the middle east, the eu high representative and the eu member states to make sure that the 2012 conference takes place at latest in early 2013. in particular we call on the high representative/vice-president catherine ashton to ensure that the european union remains actively engaged in supporting this process, particularly through the dynamic diplomatic encouragement of all parties concerned.
in writing. − regarding the convening of an international conference on the establishment of a weapons of mass destruction free zone (wmdfz) in the middle east, i voted in favour because i agree with the efforts made by the european union and italy in support of the facilitator to organise the conference before 22 april 2013.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must have rules on 'made in'. the country of origin labelling of products imported into the union from third countries, such as clothing, shoes and jewellery, is firstly a necessary commercial measure to increase the competitiveness of european companies vis-à-vis their wto competitors and secondly a sacrosanct measure of transparency to protect consumers, aimed at enhancing both our quality production and compliance with the strict european social and environmental legislation. the obligation to mark the origin has been in place for years in countries such as the united states, china or brazil and, if adopted by the union, would simply put us on an equal footing with these other trading partners. with labelling that specifies the mark of origin, european citizens can be informed and know whether the products they buy are entirely made in non-european countries. the european parliament has already expressed itself on this issue in 2010 by a large majority and the commission cannot ignore this clear request by withdrawing the regulation just because no political agreement was reached in the council. we must redouble our efforts and try to find a solution to give the union clear rules on 'made in'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are facing a huge problem, because i would like to recall that in october 2010 parliament voted by a very large majority - 525 votes to 49 - in favour of mandatory labelling for certain products from non-eu countries, such as clothing, footwear and jewellery. on the one hand, the defence of the consumer, who must be informed, but also the need for a europe which is fair to its citizens, which defends the rights of its citizens and of its companies. we are in competition with countries such as the usa, china and brazil, which have regulations on the labelling of products from other countries. can we then have the same rules as american citizens, brazilian citizens, chinese citizens or not? i think it is easier to have rules like theirs than to try to abolish them at home. i too, like jo leinen, expect the commission to come forward with a new proposal on this matter as soon as possible.
in writing. - mr president, parliament cannot tolerate the commission's decision to withdraw the proposal for a regulation on 'made in' and it cannot tolerate the behaviour of certain member states in the council. the 'made in' rules would allow third countries to sell their products in europe only by clearly indicating the country of origin on the label. first of all, reciprocity is a good rule: it is a paradox that these countries still have a choice whether or not to include this information on the label of goods sold in the eu, but at the same time demand (like china, the usa and brazil) that products imported from the eu bear an indication of origin. the european consumer is in fact prevented from distinguishing the origin of the products and making an informed choice. and our entrepreneurs face unfair competition every day. it is a totally failed trade policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i share the doubts about the legitimacy of the commission's decision to withdraw the proposal for a regulation on the import of goods from third countries, on which parliament has already expressed its opinion. the role of parliament in the decision-making process is thus greatly diminished, to the detriment both of the institution itself and of the citizens whom it represents democratically. the lack of a coherent and sufficiently strong organic legislation to protect the high quality of european products leaves our markets defenseless against the massive invasion of low-cost products from third countries. this is to the great detriment of both consumers, who can easily be deceived about the quality of the products they buy, and of european industry, which is subject to unfair and ruthless competition. we have a duty to move towards ever more effective control, and this regulation is an important step in that direction. to drop it is to give up this battle. i therefore believe that the commission should review its position and allow the legislative procedure to run its course until it reaches its natural conclusion, encouraging rather than preventing dialogue between the co-legislators.
in writing. - 250 items of clothing with numerous irregularities in labelling were seized by the municipal police in prato yesterday too, and this is unfortunately only the latest in a series of incidents that are now happening almost every day in italy. the european commission is reacting with the idea of 'helping' our businesses and consumers by withdrawing the regulation on 'made in' which this parliament voted by a very large majority. the pretext that this measure would be contrary to the rules of the world trade organisation seems to be quite unfounded, considering that some of our partners such as brazil, canada, china and the united states have also long since imposed the obligation to affix a mark of origin to many products. i cannot understand why the european union should want to harm itself: the only plausible explanation is that it prefers to leave consumers in the dark, without any basic information for their purchases. but in this way we are playing into the hands of our competitors, or of the large multinationals that relocate to places where labour costs are cheaper and where there are no rules and social guarantees, and we and our companies are all paying the price.
in writing. - today we voted in the house on the report on 'the marking of origin on certain products imported from third countries'. the european parliament believes that the eu should make the use of the origin mark compulsory for goods imported from third countries. after criticising the commission's decision to withdraw the 'made in' regulation which had received strong support from parliament in 2010, we asked for a new proposal. as member states have not been able to agree on the mandatory indication of the country of origin for products imported into the eu, such as clothing, shoes and jewellery, the commission needs to explore other avenues to ensure a level playing field between eu businesses and their third country competitors and consumer protection. only a labelling of the country of origin of a product can ensure an informed choice by consumers and the commission is therefore asked to propose a new text to this effect.
in writing. − knowing the origin of products is essential for italian and european consumers in order to protect their right to correct information about what they are buying. at the same time, in a period of deep economic crisis, more information and greater transparency can mean a major boost to consumption. the commission announced that it was withdrawing the regulation without even opening a discussion with parliament. but not making labelling compulsory for products imported from non-european countries means favouring the large multinationals which exploit workers, women and children and use low-quality materials which are often harmful to health and the environment. for more than a decade, italian companies have been calling for clear rules that would protect the supply chain of italian and european excellence and provide clarity on the origin of products, which often guides consumers' final decisions. it is desirable that the union forcefully reinsert the 'made in' label in its 2013 agenda by opening a debate between the commission and parliament. otherwise, recovery will be further and further away.
in writing. − after years of arguing that there were no technical obstacles to the introduction of mandatory origin labelling on goods imported from non-eu countries, the european commission suddenly changed its position last autumn, arguing that the introduction of a mandatory origin labelling scheme at eu level could prove rather complicated. the european parliament, which had already expressed its support for 'made in' by approving the report by mrs muscardini, has put this issue back on the agenda, in effect asking, with today's vote, that a way be found for the union to reconcile the requirements of an ambitious, innovative and open trade policy with the need to ensure maximum transparency on the origin of products for the benefit of european consumers.
in writing. − mr. president, i voted for this resolution because i believe that a deeper integration of the european and mercosur economies will be beneficial to both sides. for this reason with this text we express our concerns for the slow pace of the negotiations and the lack of any substantial progress to date. the trade negotiations were relaunched in 2010 with the objective of arriving at a comprehensive and mutually advantageous agreement and we are still waiting for a conclusion. i think that the only way out from this impasse is to bring sufficient political motivation and significant political backing to the table in the next round of negotiations from both parties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to thank you and my group, the alde group, for your sensitivity in allowing this parliament to sponsor the 20th anniversary of my father's murder on 7 january. i want to thank you for your heartfelt and touching words that started those two days. thanks to alde, we were able to organize an international police force summit, with the participation of the fbi, the dea, the president of the bka and all the italian forces. it was a very well-publicized event and i will be sending all my colleagues a digitized press release to give them a chance to know what happened. i would therefore like to thank you again, mr president, and to thank parliament and my alde group.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets, in which we wanted to support and strengthen the objectives of the posei programme, which contains specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions of the european union, and in particular suggested the need for a slight increase in funding and in the measures themselves. this is intended to address in an appropriate manner the difficulties posed by the specific situation of those regions, which is aggravated by the current economic and financial crisis and the increasing pressure on the sectors concerned. some of the characteristics of these regions, such as their great distance, insularity, small size and topography, pose various socioeconomic problems, particularly as regards the competitiveness of agriculture and the industrial processing sector. the increase in resources we are proposing for banana producers in the outermost regions is therefore intended to ensure that these regions can continue their development process, as well as to support agriculture and the conservation of natural resources.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the text under discussion, because it is certainly an advantage for the outermost regions and the smaller aegean islands. however, i would like to ask the honourable member who has followed the subject closely whether he does not think that there is a problem at the root which concerns insularity, in addition to distance and size, and that above all the higher cost of transport may make one think of extending these problems - as mr danellis said just now - to all the island regions in order to allow them to be close to the central position of the single market, without which the island regions would be excluded.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is unfortunately a growing phenomenon. as research and social surveys have shown in all countries, executioners cannot unfortunately be identified by their religion or belief in one religion rather than another, they cannot be identified by their high rather than low cultural level, they cannot be identified by their social class. unfortunately - and the things i have heard are truly shameful - it is known that violence against women does not know these differences, so to point to one religion rather than another as the bearer of a violent and unfair attitude towards women is the wrong way to approach the subject and i hope that this parliament, as is obviously already clear, does not follow at all... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of violence against women is a very topical one, unfortunately always topical, involving and involving everyone. i'm just sorry i picked up on some of the division amongst the staff. i believe that there is no such thing as a-class violence and b-class violence, good violence and bad violence. whatever the cause, it is a phenomenon we should fight and we must fight it all together with great conviction and determination. violence against women is recognised as a violation of fundamental rights by the echr and the charter of fundamental rights of the union, is the subject of the convention which was signed in 2011 against domestic violence and violence against women and is clearly a key point taken into account within the european arrest warrant directive. yet, as we have heard from colleagues, the data still reveal a very negative picture in europe and elsewhere. commissioner reding, i thank you for what you are doing and for the call you made in your speech to all the member states to do their part. we must do our part here to encourage the member states to take a meaningful part in this. i believe this resolution is important because it addresses the need for greater cooperation. for our instruments to be more effective, we need to be more incisive, more decisive and more decisive on the international stage. i would add that this phenomenon cannot be solved by punitive measures and declarations of principles alone. it is a phenomenon that must be attacked at its root, by eradicating the stratification of culture, which can have its roots in religious affiliations but not only, and by breaking down social barriers. we need concrete projects, we need resources, we need a european union strategy with concrete actions to overcome differences in employment, to free people from poverty, to really ensure the promotion of equal opportunities. i believe that your work, commissioner reding, is on the right track and i will be at your side to support the implementation of these projects. but more resources and more facts are my request.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-president reding has said, parliament and the commission have achieved concrete objectives in this parliament: the commission has already adopted a number of proposals, including the directive on victims of crime, the european protection order, the trafficking directive and the directive, which i was rapporteur for, on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography online. but the data are not positive, and they tell us that too many women are victims of violence, too many women are even killed, often by their husbands, boyfriends or ex-boyfriends. one in five women in europe is a victim of violence at least once in her life. so we must put a lot of emphasis on information, on prevention, on a real european strategy. another mandatory step is the signing and ratification of the council of europe convention against domestic violence by all member states. so there are many legislative instruments, but unfortunately there are still few resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, commissioner, for your words here tonight and for your renewed commitment to this phenomenon, this social plague. it is a huge social problem affecting all the states, as we said before, a phenomenon which does not know any difference of religion, of census, of cultural level, a phenomenon which unfortunately crosses all social strata. it is a social problem and, as such, it is politics that must take care of it and institutional politics must think about taking care of this problem. europe can do a lot, it can do a lot on the legal side, by encouraging the states to develop rules on the certainty of sentences which are increasingly stringent, because the certainty of sentences is the instrument through which women can gradually trust institutions more, have less fear and break the silence which unfortunately still covers this phenomenon which brings with it not only fear but also shame. on the cultural side, there is still much to be done. if we are also seeing in this parliament speeches in which one religion is singled out rather than another, and it is singled out as the cradle of gender-based violence and violence against women, it is clear that the cultural road ahead is very high and the european union can do a lot. the directive ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mr de backer, and the members who worked with him on this excellent report on access to finance for smes, which is the problem of problems if we are to win the challenge against the crisis. i also want to thank parliament for its support for the commission's initiatives and, in this regard, in particular, the action plan adopted in december 2011, but also for the support i hope to receive. we have already received some positive messages about this action plan for entrepreneurship which the european commission approved a few weeks ago. i agree with your analysis that the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises is still very difficult, even if the horizon has brightened somewhat in terms of financial stability. however, the economic situation remains precarious and smes are the first to suffer from these difficulties. we must urgently reduce financial instability and take measures to promote growth. we cannot always ask our fellow citizens to make sacrifices without having a strategy for growth. that is why the commission has been strongly committed to small and mediumsized enterprises, because only through them can we reduce the number of workers who lose their jobs. difficulties in accessing finance are common, but the problems and solutions are more specific. the reports emphasise the diversity of smes, more by type of enterprise than by country. it is this diversity that the commission has tried to cover with its action plan, which provides financial support, regulatory measures and political support. first, the financial support. the european union supports small and medium-sized enterprises through financial instruments for capital and debt, through programmes for competitiveness and innovation. in 2012, we were pleased to have been able to mobilise over €12 billion of guarantees for new investments and over €2.2 billion for venture capital by september. in total, more than 200 000 small and medium-sized enterprises have benefited from these measures. in addition, the european investment bank has almost doubled its lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, with €13 billion in financing in 2012 alone. i also want to mention the commission's proposal for a new generation of financial instruments, such as the new cosme programme, for the next financial period 2014-2020, which must be defended in this debate on the next financial perspective. the autonomy of cosme is very important, and i want to thank the european parliament tonight for its support. this is the first time we have a project devoted exclusively to the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises. we have proposed €2.5 billion and a specific budgetary envelope of €2.4 billion for guarantees and access to capital. we also proposed that instruments be mobilised under the horizon 2020 programme, which is more focused on innovation. in this difficult budgetary context, we must defend the objective of growth and job creation, in particular through small and mediumsized enterprises. if we stop investing in our future, europe will not be able to return to the path of growth. the commission is working to speed up the implementation of the late payment directive in the area of access to finance. the deadline is 16 march 2013, but we have pushed member states to work before then. in fact, some countries have already implemented this directive. we must ensure that implementation in each member state is in accordance with the text approved by parliament and the council. we have launched a campaign throughout the european union. there will be activities in each country: this morning i was in milan, the next time will be in malta, on 14 or 15 february. in several member states, activities will be organised to explain the rules contained in this directive to businesses, public administrations, the state and judges. beyond resources, we also need to improve the regulatory framework. first of all, we must ensure the sustainability of bank financing and, in the negotiations on the increase of capital requirements for banks, in the framework of basel iii, we are in the process of defining favourable conditions for loans to small and mediumsized enterprises. i thank parliament again for its support in this direction. secondly, we must develop other sources of finance. the new instrument of the european venture capital fund should be finally adopted by parliament very soon and i thank you again. it will be very useful if these financing activities, often with high added value, are relaunched to support innovative smes in their development. thirdly, we must also promote the growth of small and mediumsized enterprises by facilitating their access to the capital markets. the commission proposed the creation of a market regime specific to smes in the mifid directive and the reduction of costs in terms of administrative burdens for smes in the transparency directive. these issues are still under discussion and i encourage you to make progress in your examination and to complete the negotiations with the council. these are measures which will have a positive and direct impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, as will the proposed simplifications of the accounting directives. finally, we must do more, find new ideas, new ways. how can we encourage europeans to be more enterprising? what instruments should be developed to improve access to different sources of funding? i would like us to think together about ways of promoting crowdfunding, for example, or creating stock markets that are even more suitable for small and mediumsized enterprises. i am counting on the support and the innovative capacity of my former colleagues in the european parliament. i think we need to have a debate on the new ideas we can put on the table to continue helping small and mediumsized enterprises to win this great challenge against the crisis. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the excellent cooperation he has shown over the past few months in preparing this report. i think that this time of crisis has shown that small and mediumsized enterprises in particular have a problem with financing, whereas larger companies do not have this problem to this extent. this also has a lot to do with cooperation with banks and transparency, and in the process of improving financing, transparency between borrowers and lenders certainly needs to be improved. transparency both when the loan is granted and when the loan is rejected. i am particularly concerned about the financing of farms in border areas. unfortunately, the spread, which is quoted over and over again, is not only in public finances, it is also in the financing of enterprises, and in border areas it becomes a real problem for the functioning of the internal market. in some countries - as my predecessor has already said - guarantee platforms have proved very successful, including in my own country, and i am convinced that expanding this system in europe and strengthening it through the european investment bank could be of great help here. the financing is currently very uniform for small and medium-sized enterprises. far more than half, about two thirds of all financing, comes through traditional bank credit. for good financing we will have to expand our scope, including the use of stock exchanges for financing small and mediumsized enterprises. i think that financing is a key issue in the way out of this crisis, and i am convinced that with this report we have made a valuable contribution to the way out of this crisis, but above all for our women entrepreneurs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with this excellent report we are saying that we are thinking positively in small terms. very well, but we must also take action for the younger ones. we can have all the possible instruments to support small and mediumsized enterprises, we can invent everything, but if the institutions, including the european institutions and the same categories, are not physically close to the individual enterprises that need them, then every programme will remain a mere declaration of intent. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the new technologies in the european union. projects which are showing good results but are not yet sufficiently known, such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs, need to be strengthened. the european investment bank will be able to bring some eur 180 billion of investment into the market, and it is a priority, if we are to save our widespread industrial fabric, that a significant part of these resources be allocated to local businesses, those small and mediumsized enterprises which have no access to credit elsewhere. similarly, for the cosmo and horizon 2020 programmes, at least 20% of the appropriations must be allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises and the funds must be adequate, i.e. increased compared to the current prospects. finally, i would like to pay particular attention to the sector which i am following most closely, that of access for small and mediumsized enterprises to the international market, following the european union's choice to open up markets which provokes strong, sometimes deadly, competition from asian producers, but which at the same time represents a good opportunity for development. in this case too, specific guidelines must be in place and the ability to undertake updating, training and access to credit must be developed to make these instruments really usable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe 23 million small businesses still manage to provide employment for 67% of our citizens. that is why protecting small businesses should be the way out of the recession today. in italy, however, the fiscal creativity of the monti government has given rise to unfair taxes such as the imu which, together with the well-known problems of bureaucratic burdens and the economic problems already existing, have driven dozens of entrepreneurs to suicide. as if that were not enough, our banks, despite having received a shower of billions of euros from europe to support the productive fabric, have turned off the credit tap. every day in italy, 33 companies close. where'd all this money go? rather than helping businesses by supporting current needs and future development projects, financial institutions have preferred to invest this money in government bonds with a certain and secure yield. it's time to turn the tide. the banks which, despite having cheap liquidity, have let small businesses die, must be closed down and must stop speculating on our future and the future of our companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to what objectively seems to me to be the central point of the discussion we are having. many of my colleagues have returned to the need to strengthen the local banking system, a need which is entirely shared. but this is not enough if we do not introduce instruments and rules which will allow us to support these banks when their credit situation becomes difficult, as has happened in recent months, and to give them the opportunity to coordinate, because there is nothing worse than having a difference in rates between the various member states or even between neighbouring cross-border areas. the risk is that firms will come into conflict with each other and that there will be a crisis not because of the inability to compete but simply because of the different access to credit.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i agree with almost all the comments i have heard in plenary this evening. the solidarity between the commission and the european parliament on this subject is very strong, and that is why we must work together to defend, in the next financial perspective, the cosme package and all the financing that is planned for small and mediumsized enterprises. there are, of course, the cosme and horizon 2020 funds, but there is also cohesion policy. that is why we must all work together to prevent the funding of smes from being reduced in cohesion policy too. as regards the work the commission is doing to support small and mediumsized enterprises, we have proposed a questionnaire on administrative burden, that is to say we have asked about ten questions to enterprises to find out what the most important problems for them were. the public consultation was a tremendous success and we are analysing the results. we'll be releasing them soon. i would also remind you that the commission intends to take specific action for each proposal that is listed in the top ten. i want to say a few words about internationalisation. as you know, there is a text approved by the commission and it is not just theory. i am organising growth-themed trips, especially to countries with high growth, such as south america, north africa, then china, russia and vietnam. i am not only taking large companies with me, but also small and mediumsized enterprises, which can find out, thanks to the european commission, where they can invest and set up joint ventures with companies from these latin american or north african countries. at the beginning of my first speech i mentioned the action plan to be developed for entrepreneurship, both at community level and at member state level. as regards the application and implementation of the small business act, i find that the network of 'ambassadors' for small and mediumsized enterprises is working very well. all member states have appointed an 'ambassador' who is not a mere official; he is a minister, deputy minister or director general. the next meeting will take place next friday in bologna, to send a message of solidarity to small and mediumsized enterprises in a region where an earthquake has caused significant damage to small and mediumsized enterprises, in one of the regions where they are most present, not only in italy but in the european union. this is what we're doing. i think that we are winning the challenge to help small and mediumsized enterprises and to prevent this new rule from harming smes, and i think that, with the support of the european parliament, we will be able to give a positive response to small and mediumsized enterprises at the end of the debate with the council. of course, you always have to be careful. small and mediumsized enterprises are weak, but i share your view that we cannot win the challenge of the crisis without a strategy for smes. that's my commitment, which is very strong. in the framework of the industrial policy of entrepreneurship, we must give priority to defending the role and position of small and mediumsized enterprises, both to safeguard employment and to give hope to young people in the years to come. thank you all so much. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and for the support he has given - not only on the occasion of this report - to the commission's action in defence of small and mediumsized enterprises. so a big thank you to parliament for its commitment, not just for today, but for the work that you are doing to defend the real economy. i would like to stress once again that we must work hard to defend the cosme programme in the debate with the council. we should increase the money for smes, but the cosme programme is a political message that we are giving in the next financial perspective. there will be a package for the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. of course, we will also work with clusters, but with the cosme programme we are sending the following message: smes are at the heart of european union policy. thank you so much for your support. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the report under discussion today is of particular importance because it concerns ways of improving access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. in view of the importance of smes to the european economy and the difficulties they face in accessing credit, aggravated by the current crisis, i think it is important that parliament should speak out strongly in support of improving access to finance for smes. i welcome the report, particularly as it encourages the commission to continue to promote a flexible approach which takes account of the great diversity of european smes and the need to define different financing modalities, both in the context of capital instruments and debt instruments. in addition, i believe that the commission should ensure that national sme associations are adequately informed about the european union's strategic initiatives and proposals. in particular, i welcome the commission's proposal to promote the use of qualitative assessment as a tool to be integrated into the processes of quantitative assessment of the creditworthiness of smes. finally, i would point out the need for the provision of eu financial instruments to be accompanied by appropriate mentoring programmes that strengthen the capacity of smes to access financial instruments.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the economy in the european union: they provide 67 per cent of jobs. in a period of economic crisis since 2008, credit institutions have been providing loans with greater difficulties and at higher costs, particularly affecting small and medium-sized enterprises: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the measures proposed by the commission to improve access to finance for smes are therefore welcome. as regards the regulatory measures, i would like to stress the commission's right intention to propose new legislation to support venture capital. it is an alternative financial instrument to credit which should be looked at with particular interest but which is unfortunately seldom used. as regards the financial measures, i would like to point out the novelty of the new cosme programme, which, with a budget of some two and a half billion euro, serves as a loan guarantee instrument. we hope that the financial allocation will be considerably increased and we will endeavour to do so in view of the forthcoming discussion and adoption of the new community budget.
in writing. figures and statistical reports show that smes are the backbone of the european economy and of my country. the same figures tell us that they provide 90 million jobs. however, the data show that the economic crisis has made smes too vulnerable due to the lack of sound and practical support. we need a structural plan with targeted interventions to provide tailor-made loans for smes, tax reforms and employment incentives to help businesses and our citizens to get their heads up. there are too many difficulties faced by small and mediumsized enterprises, such as the difficulties in accessing credit because of the prudence of credit institutions. the same companies are then confronted with financial institutions and capital requirements imposed by supranational and national authorities which aggravate their recovery. let us stop concentrating on analyses of the seriousness of the situation, in apologetic speeches, and let us take concrete measures. there is no one-size-fits-all solution, so we offer a range of financing options, from credit to debt instruments, to meet different needs. we are exploiting the employment potential of smes, which represent 99% and provide 67% of the jobs for the european economic recovery.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the year that has just ended is the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. the own-initiative report of the european parliament is intended to serve as a link to assess the results achieved, but also to understand what the future challenges for the union are. among these challenges, active ageing must create better opportunities for older women and men to continue to play a role in the labour market. to this end, action will have to be taken to create a european generational pact, based both on the employment of younger people to assist older people and on the promotion, from adolescence, of policies aimed at creating awareness that active ageing affects all generations. to do this, it is essential that the union engages in a process of optimising economic resources to ensure the physical, social and mental health of all its citizens.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i must stress how much i really appreciate, together with my colleagues borg and kroes, the great interest and support that parliament has shown for the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing. we are grateful to you for this very useful report which has been presented today, and i would like to thank mrs liotard and her team in particular for their efforts. the report highlights the importance of the potential for active and healthy ageing in europe in both social and economic terms. indeed, promoting and deploying innovative solutions for health and ageing, and meeting real needs, provides an opportunity to improve the health of our older people, as well as their quality of life and also their capacity for social interaction. at the same time, operators can take advantage of new opportunities in growing markets and increased competitiveness as the ageing population is a global challenge. the partnership, if successful, should act as a catalyst and help to strengthen the european union in the wake of the economic crisis it is experiencing. let me take this opportunity to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, of the latest developments in the partnership. in november 2012, the commission held a first partner conference, which brought together more than 500 participants. this event marks a new stage in the ongoing evolution of the partnership. at this conference, the stakeholders involved in the partnerships endorsed six specific action plans, which include concrete activities with clear objectives and results, with a view to implementing these specific actions at national, regional and local levels by 2015. the first preliminary results are already expected by the end of this year. the partnership has proved to be a great success. more than 300 leading organisations are actively forming coalitions and other consortia covering partners from all eu member states, representing 1 000 regions and municipalities. this positive spirit has created a positive and continuing dynamic. in recent months, interest has been growing and has reached new actors. the commission therefore decided to launch a second call in december inviting all interested parties to join the partnership during the implementation phase in order to capitalise on this renewed interest. in this context, i would like to emphasise the crucial role of regional and local authorities in promoting the actions of the partnership: they are the real local drivers of its implementation. i would encourage all members to take every opportunity to support and promote the partnership, particularly in your constituencies, because our ambition is to really change the reality and the experience of our fellow citizens. we need this grassroots stimulation to nurture, share and disseminate innovative best practices in healthcare, to learn from each other and to find partnerships with similar approaches. i would like to conclude by once again thanking all members for their political dynamism, commitment and ability to defend, communicate and promote the partnership. we count on your unwavering support to increase the capacity of this partnership and generate critical mass for the benefit of our citizens and thus enable us to meet the demographic challenge.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 february 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by antonyia parvanova, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in public health insurance schemes (com (((2012) 0084 c7-0056/2012 2012/0035 ((cod)) (a7-0015/2013).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 february 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the directive on the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in public health insurance schemes is a very important directive which, in the light of recent developments in the field, has responded to the need to update the current regulatory framework which, although it has had a very positive impact, no longer meets the needs from which it was born. in this sense, the draft report under consideration, while fully respecting the exclusive competence of the member states in this field, aims to set out a framework capable of ensuring the application of transparent and appropriate rules to the measures adopted at national level in the field of price-setting and reimbursement, with the ultimate aim of facilitating access to more sustainable care for patients and at the same time encouraging research into new medicines. we hope that this approach will be maintained in all the next stages of the negotiations.
the next item is the commission statement on the recovery of european industry in the present difficult economic climate.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i went to thank the rapporteur because i thought her work was particularly effective and this underlines how important it is for me, as vice-president of the european commission, to have a close working relationship with this house where i have worked for 15 years. i think that we must start thinking a lot about industrial policy, madam president, ladies and gentlemen. the debate this evening is very important to all of us. fortunately, after years in which europe has focused on services and finance as the heart of the economy today, europe is beginning to discuss the importance of a modern, competitive and open industrial system capable of being a player in globalisation, to discuss growth which can create jobs and help us to overcome this great challenge against the crisis. this is why the european commission has begun, since the beginning of mr barroso's second term, in the framework of europe 2020, to stress the importance of industrial policy. there is no industrial policy as there was 20 or 30 years ago. it is a modern industrial policy, which aims to recover what we have lost over the last few years. unfortunately, today, the data on industrial production indicate a decline on an annual basis of about 2%, and the level of production remains below the pre-crisis peak of about 1%, at the beginning of 2008. the situation is, of course, different between member states and between sectors, but there is no doubt that the whole of european industry is suffering. that is why we must start thinking and working for change. as you know, i organized a great meeting a year ago in brussels on the theme of growth linked to industrial policy, where we invited jeremy rifkin to study a modern way of making industrial policy. there is a need for change, even if, among the member states, we can note the good performances of some countries of central and eastern europe, such as slovakia: up 18.7% on an annual basis, and lithuania: up 8.4%. however, other member states, such as cyprus, italy and spain, are in a much more difficult situation. even the largest european economy, germany, which had shown a remarkable recovery in its activity, is now experiencing some difficulties. for what it's worth, 2012 was a very difficult year in construction, textiles, furniture, metals, automobiles, plastics. the situation is more simple for shipyards, chemicals and transport equipment. however, the problems are undeniable. i am thinking of the high-level working groups we have set up in the automobile sector, in the steel sector, and also in shipbuilding and shipbuilding. in terms of employment, after a rebound in 2011, the decline resumed, bringing the total of jobs lost in the manufacturing industry since the beginning of the crisis to more than three million, i.e. more than 10% of the total. the figures for the third quarter of 2012 indicate that there is an increase in job losses linked to restructurings. the 274 restructuring cases recorded in the third quarter resulted in the loss of 74 556 jobs. the sectors most affected were, as we have said, the automobile, steel and construction sectors. the crisis in european industry was linked first of all to the weak dynamics of domestic demand and also to the slowdown in international trade, which had been the main driver of the recovery. we must therefore act very quickly. with globalisation, industry has moved more and more to other parts of the world. over the last five years, china's share of global manufacturing production has increased by 7.7%. it now exceeds the united states and europe at 21.7%. in addition, our share in world trade in goods also fell from 17.3% to 16%. it is for these reasons that the commission presented in october an ambitious update of its industrial policy, as i said at the beginning of this speech, which sets a very clear goal: to reindustrialise europe by bringing the share of industry in gdp to 20% by 2020 compared to 15,6% today. of course, there is no simple figure, but a policy is needed to try to achieve this. the commission has therefore decided to concentrate its immediate efforts on six priority markets which can have an impact on both the emerging and traditional industrial sectors in europe. the six priority markets identified are clean production technologies, sustainable construction, bio-economy products, generic key technologies, clean vehicles and smart energy networks. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the development of new technologies, such as the new generation of electricity, and to extend the scope of the programme to include the development of new technologies. the commission has set up specialised task forces. their roadmaps to accelerate the adoption of these new technologies by industry will soon be made public in order to facilitate the establishment of genuine partnerships between the european union, the member states and industry. in addition to these horizontal measures, the commission closely follows the development of the various industrial sectors which are or will be the subject of targeted action plans. i mentioned the car industry, for which the commission adopted the car 2020 action plan on 8 november last, which is intended to support the competitiveness and viability of the automobile industry and proposes in particular several specific actions to manage the structural changes under way in this sector. this is also the case for the steel sector, where a high-level round table is held. elle is to meet for the third time on 12 february. you have already read in the press the interest aroused by this meeting. arcelormittal and other companies will be participating in this round table, as will several ministers of industry of the european union. we must begin to reflect - and i thank the european parliament for its support - on the need to hold a council on competitiveness during which industrial policies can be discussed, that is to say, a council on competitiveness and industry. i tried to do an experiment on this subject on december 9th. i invited all the ministers of industry - only the ministers and not the ambassadors - to a working dinner in brussels to discuss together in an informal way industrial policies, particularly with regard to the automobile crisis, with a view to having a european strategy to meet this challenge. on 10 december the competitiveness council was held, which worked well thanks to this real meeting, the real council of ministers of industry. unfortunately, the competitiveness council regularly turns into a coreper iv or v, because of the presence of the ministers. there are 'numbers two' and ambassadors and it is not easy to take decisions together, at political level, if the political leaders of the different member states are not present. i would therefore like to thank the house and the committee on industry, research and energy once again for their help and their ability to try to provide us with real advice on competitiveness and industry. this is a very interesting proposal for me in order to put in place a modern and competitive industrial policy. i also thank parliament for its involvement today in this debate, which is very important and very interesting in my view. i cannot carry out an industrial policy or study a new industrial revolution without a strong commitment from parliament and our fellow citizens. i think it is a good solution to evaluate together a strategy for the modern and green reindustrialisation of our network of enterprises and i am convinced that we can win this challenge. the 20% target is not a utopia, it is a target we can achieve. once again, a big thank you to the european parliament for its commitment to a new industrial policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must fight together for the real economy, for growth and for jobs. the crisis is imposing drastic measures and cuts. i am also thinking of the recent layoffs in liège of thousands of arcelormittal workers who are asking us to do more. it is time to move on to real community governance, to taking responsibility, even beyond the formal powers, including through the creation of a management cabinet for european industry which can mobilise all the resources, powers and sectoral policies, often fragmented by us, towards convergent development objectives, coordinating the european level with that of the member states and with that of local authorities. we cannot leave fragmentation as the answer to the crisis. the business, financial and banking sectors must also be involved, because private capital often uses the excuse of the lack of a clear framework to escape to other places. the recovery is and must be possible because the union of 27, despite the crisis, maintains its leadership as the world's largest manufacturing producer, even ahead of china and the usa, for now. i would like to summarize some of the points of this strategy, this new strategy which you indicated for industrial policy: i believe in more integration between the different production chains and between the production chains and the services; i believe in the creation of a european energy market which reduces costs and dependence; i am thinking of a large programme of infrastructure investment supported by eurobonds; i am thinking of financial instruments which attract private capital for medium and long-term strategic investments; i am thinking of support for research which is right in our hands, within our reach; and i am thinking of training for innovation, because support for highly qualified human capital in business is a key asset for an innovative and green policy for industry. i am also thinking, as some colleagues have said, of protecting european manufacturers from the asymmetrical competition of the world's competitive poles.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all a political note. after many years, europe has returned to putting the real economy at the centre of its economic policy. after a few years in which all the attention was focused on finance and services, the arrival of the barroso commission 2 has changed the trend and the talk of industrial policy has returned. in 15 years of parliamentary activity, between 1994 and 2008, i did not participate in many debates on industrial policy in europe, on problems or on which industrial policy to have. i would say that there has always been little discussion of industrial policy at council level either. the time has also passed when the commissioner responsible - i remember the steel plan of commissioner davignon - had powers to make industrial policy. the powers granted to the european commission in the field of industrial policy are very limited, but there has been a strong political choice that has brought us back to focusing on the internal market, industry, enterprise, action to combat the crisis. if we have an economic policy based on finance alone, we circulate money and often that money ends up in the pockets of those who already have a lot of it. industrial policy, pro-business policy, creates new wealth and often allows for the redistribution of this wealth, using the market not as an end but as a tool for social policy. the change has come. it is not by chance and it was not easy, mr durant, to say and convince the whole european commission that there is a target to be achieved by 2020. the three "20" we have now are to be joined by a fourth, which is 20% of the gross domestic product, the result of industrial policy by 2020. it is a political choice of great importance and it is no coincidence that the council and parliament have also welcomed this political choice. it is not easy to move from policy to action, from the practical transformation of these choices, because a change in policy must have practical consequences which take time. i have not been oblivious to the arcelormittal case and to the steel crisis in general which affects my own country. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. we set up the high-level group before the summer break in 2012, after a meeting with trade unionists from many european industries dependent on arcelormittal. we have set up this working party, which involves not only industry and trade unions but also the european parliament, as president pervenche berès and president sartori are also full-time members. the european parliament is fully associated with this high-level group which is taking time to find solutions. on the 12th we also involved commissioner andor on the employment side. i repeat, i do not have the powers of commissioner davignon who drew up a plan for the steel industry; i have powers of political direction and coordination and on the 12th i will be in brussels with the trade unions, the companies, including arcelormittal, the representatives of the european parliament, commissioner andor and the belgian ministers responsible for industrial policy. the french minister will be there to discuss directly also between member states, with the coordination of the european commission. i can try to coordinate and find solutions to prevent clashes between different member countries. the same is happening in the car sector, not all the positions of the european car industry are homogeneous. the effort we are making is to prevent a clash between european businesses. then there is the problem of environmental policy. we are the flag bearers of the fight against climate change, but this choice also involves sacrifices. i have repeatedly said that we cannot, in the absence of a global agreement, go beyond the 20% threshold for reducing co2 emissions, because our industry is not able to exceed that target, even though it would be desirable. but we must be realistic if we are to prevent relocation which would also cause enormous damage to our action against climate change, because part of the industry would go to produce where there are no strong rules against climate change and this would also damage our action for the environment. as regards the concrete matters - because we have not only made general policy choices - we have included the steel sector among those sectors which are authorized to receive state aid, also as regards the quotas which can be reimbursed with state aid up to 80%. this was a choice which the unions themselves recognised as a worthy choice by the european commission. so something concrete has already been done before the action plan is put into practice, which takes time because agreements have to be reached and then approved by the whole college. it's not that we're not paying attention or not following. i am following very closely, together with commissioner almunia, who is responsible for competition policy, the development of the tyssenkrupp affair, the sale - as vice-president angelilli is well aware - of a major part of it to a finnish company. we have many community rules, not only industrial policy, but also environmental policy and competition policy, which often require us to make choices which can then have repercussions, in particular, which require subsequent action. i believe that the commission is also doing a good job in protecting our companies. it is no coincidence that there has been a seminar devoted to the competitiveness of our industrial system, as president barroso wanted. it is not by chance that trade policy is also being looked at carefully because it is not a naive trade policy. anti-dumping measures were adopted to prevent unfair competition. i am a firm believer in the need for a level playing field, competition must be global but the same rules must be followed. we cannot play the same football match in brussels 11 against 11 and then go to beijing to play 9 against 13, because that would be a lost match. we have raised many problems, including the problem of protecting our know-how, which does not mean being protectionist or closing the doors to our market, but looking carefully at the defence of our capabilities. we are also working hard on the quality and competitiveness of our enterprises in the field of key enabling technologies. on the 12th, there will be a meeting with ministers from a number of countries in the centre of grenoble which is one of the most competitive in terms of enabling key technologies. the choice of horizon 2020 is also a choice that involves change: for the first time, research will no longer be an end in itself, but will be directed towards industrial policy, because we can no longer afford to have chinese or japanese industries legitimately use our research results to compete against our companies, because there is no strong link between universities, research and industry. these are mistakes which we must not make again, mistakes which are the result of a reality in which industrial policy was unfortunately pushed into the corner, and was considered to be secondary. now he's not. the commission's choice has always been very clear, and the policy for reindustrialisation is the result of a document, at the beginning of this commission, which dealt with industrial policy. we are working very hard on the internationalisation of companies against the relocation. i have accompanied dozens of european industries in south america, north africa and the united states of america to conduct industrial policy on growth and a modern, competitive and environmentally friendly industrial policy. we called jeremy rifkin to discuss with us this third industrial revolution. the change has been made, but it takes time and there has been no shortage of concrete action, and i believe there will be. the final work of the cars21 high-level group has also led to the creation of a working group which will give birth to another action plan for the car industry, on which we are already working, which is a sector that suffers as much as the steel industry but is also the steel industry's main customer. we are doing a lot with results that even the most skeptical among entrepreneurs have acknowledged to the european commission. we are doing the same for the shipbuilding sectors by involving the european investment bank. we are making enormous efforts to give europe back its modern industrial policy. we must transform the council into the council for industrial competitiveness in certain sessions. we cannot discuss industrial policy with only the number two or three of the important representatives of the different member states. when it comes to making political choices, it is necessary for ministers to be present and to discuss. that is why, on 9 december, i convened for the first time informally all the ministers of industry to discuss the car crisis and the crisis in the main sectors, to the satisfaction of all the ministers who believe in strong action by the european union. the letter i received a few months ago from seven eu industry ministers asking the european commission for strong coordination action was a message i took up and turned into concrete action. i repeat for the umpteenth time that the powers we have are what they are, they are those which are entrusted to us by the treaty, they are not those which commissioner davignon had when he was able to put forward - he said so himself - a plan for the steel industry. if i had the powers, i would certainly have made a proposal in that direction, but i do not have the powers to do so and i have to respect the treaties. i would like to reassure all the members who have taken part in this debate. it is good that there has been another industrial policy debate, it is an indication of change. we continue to discuss ideas and proposals on how we want to have a modern industrial policy which respects the environment and which is in fact geared towards a green economy, which creates jobs. we cannot think of buying quantity with india, china, russia, the united states, the emerging countries of south america, but we can compete on quality and i believe that we still have a lot of cards to win this challenge. we think of the space industry and all the benefits that will come from the work of galileo, our satellite project which will be operational by the end of 2014. the uk government itself, together with the european commission, organised a major event dedicated to the services and service companies that will apply galileo signals on the ground in the fields of agriculture, fisheries, transport and health, for the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change. so this is the new industrial model. the british government, which often expresses reservations about certain community policy choices, is also a leading player in this new, modern industrial policy, and is one of the leading states with us. so we have to move forward, we have to have the courage and the strength to continue on the path we have marked, which is to continue to reinforce the change. it is certainly my task to do everything possible, but i need the support of the european parliament to be able to make this breakthrough that president barroso has wanted with the guidance of the commission. the choices have been made very clearly. we must now move forward, we must have the courage to face the problems with the powers that have been given to us and convince all the member states that a modern industrial policy is the best instrument to overcome the crisis that has been gripping europe for years. i'm absolutely sure of it. madam president, i apologize for the length of my remarks, but i think that a subject like this deserves to be dealt with within the limited time allowed us to respond to the comments made by the honourable members during the debate. i believe that the issue of industrial policy is one of the key issues of our economic policy and so i thank all of you for your contribution, including your strong and harsh criticism which i believe shows how much desire there is, how much enthusiasm there is in the heart of each one of us to work for the economic growth of our european union. i thank you for this and confirm my total commitment to ensuring that europe can once again become a modern, competitive industrial reality, certainly different from the industrial europe of the 1980s but certainly at the forefront, especially in terms of quality.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 150).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic situation of what was the first bank in history, with over five hundred years of significant presence for the city of siena and for the whole of tuscany, has emerged in recent weeks. i am referring, of course, to the easter bunny, which is being rescued today in a difficult situation because of risky decisions and probably also because of illegal actions. it is right that this bank should be saved, even with public aid, because small savers cannot be left to fend for themselves and the workers of monte dei paschi must also be protected. but it cannot always be the state, with all our money, that has to intervene for those who have taken risks with reckless financial operations. the solution is therefore only one, that is, to return to the situation before 1999 when the glass-steagall act of 1933 was unfortunately repealed. that's when a lot of the international financial problems started. only by this separation between savings banks and investment banks can we avoid a repetition of similar situations and avoid using public money to cover those who wanted to gain from speculation.
the debate is closed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day, as many have said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are doing our part and we should all be happy about that, in this house as a whole. i am one of those who strongly supports the work done by mrs rodust. what happens to this job? we can fish sustainably. that sounds like an obvious statement, but it wasn't before. msy means being able to fish what is sustainable. the whole rejection thing is very simple: we must stop fishing for what is not worth fishing for, because if we really want to change the fate of this sector, of the operators, of the sea and its reproductive capacity, we must stop fishing for what was not worth fishing for. that is what the elimination of waste means, and it is a very simple element that european citizens can understand. parliament has sent this message in a very clear and timely manner. it's a momentous shift because we're probably transforming or starting to transform a mine from which to extract a resource into a large field to be cultivated. this is a step which is equally epoch-making and politically powerful, and which parliament is handing over to the commission and the council: turn the mine into a field to be cultivated. it is precisely because it is a field to be cultivated that there is an amendment which our group supported, and which was partly taken up by mrs rodust's proposal, which concerns the creation of an important nursery network, namely fish nurseries, places where we can create the conditions for the sea to produce more and help fishermen to have more resources. the amendment also sets out a percentage and i would ask members to vote in favour of it. the principle has been adopted in committee and i hope that the house will take a step forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the commissioner, thank you to the council. i am certainly glad that the debate we are having today will involve us in a vote tomorrow which will see us, for the first time, as the committee on fisheries, taking part in the codecision process. but that's not the point. i listened to all the speeches and was also impressed for a moment by what was said by colleagues who have been in this parliament for many years, who have perhaps heard the same words in the past and who are now hearing them again, and i would not like us to hear them again in a few years' time for those who will be there in our place. the work done by mrs rodust is perhaps the best that can be done, but there are some points on which we as a group of the epp have found ourselves in a different position, not on principle, not because we want to be against a path that perhaps has not seen us participate in an organic way. it is clear that we think the same about management by maximum sustainable yield as we did this morning. it is clear that we agree on the obligation to land unwanted catches that we need certain rules and that discards cannot be so indiscriminate. it is clear that we share the same principle on regionalisation. however, the way this reform is coming out of the committee has not satisfied us in any particular way. what mrs fraga suggested earlier, with the amendment she proposed on rejections, for example, i think is the correct formula for the transition. i believe that the reform must be carried out and we must go on, but probably a greater point of synthesis would certainly be to the benefit of both the sustainability of fisheries and our fishermen, because then the reform must clash on a daily basis with the livelihood of our fishermen and someone must explain to them that europe is working for them and not against them. as it turns out, maybe he doesn't just work for them. i hope that in the future ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs rodust for her difficult work. the reduction of fish stocks is now well established and scientifically proven, and the new common fisheries policy is complementing this need by laying the regulatory foundations for sustainable fisheries management. the achievement of these objectives will need to be supported by the financial instrument, which will have to be consistent with the basic regulation in order to enable shipping companies in a period of great economic difficulty to acquire equipment which is suitable for avoiding damage to marine ecosystems and which is capable of making the fisheries sector economically viable. finally, we come to the definition of artisanal fishing, which now finds greater protection in the regulation. i hope that the council will be able to maintain and defend the difficult work done by parliament on this point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this fisheries reform could mark a significant step forward in establishing a broadly shared framework for sustainable development in which economic viability can also be guaranteed. however, not everything that has been planned meets the needs and assessments of a large part of this parliament and the group of the european people's party has indeed expressed some important reservations. i am referring to discards, for example, where the quota envisaged seems really unsustainable, especially in some seas, and i am referring to the mediterranean sea, coming from a region - sicily - in which these events are sometimes seen as an aggressive way of reducing a role that fishing has played over time, not just coastal and artisanal fishing. the question of rejection is a serious one, one which must be taken into account because of the costs it may entail compared with a practice which clearly imposes a number of additional costs according to the commission's forecasts. compensatory measures for young fishermen seem necessary and inevitable, such as aquaculture and fisheries linked to tourism, which are particularly important, and we believe that regionalisation in the mediterranean is particularly important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the particular geographical configuration, remoteness and fragmentation of the small aegean islands have always posed a major challenge to the union's cohesion policy, making it essential to support the production, processing and marketing of certain agricultural products by adopting specific measures. in order to deal with the permanent and structural difficulties of the agricultural sector in the aegean islands, a clear strategic orientation was therefore needed, which envisaged, as suggested by the rapporteur, the adoption of measures for the protection of the environment, the development of tourism and the support of rural infrastructure in the near future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the noise and the noise, i shall make a single statement on the two subjects we are discussing, one after the other. so please give me time for this one statement. the reality of the smaller aegean islands presents specific problems which can be found in most of the union's island regions. these are structural constraints which weigh on the socioeconomic development of these regions and cause an ever greater dependence on food and the economy in general. as regards the discourse on the outermost regions, i welcome the adoption of these two reports and therefore the proposal for a regulation on support for agriculture in the outermost regions as well.
in writing. − strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union is an important factor in its harmonious and balanced development. the aim is to reduce the disparity between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the less-favoured regions, particularly the island, cross-border and mountain regions. the large number of small aegean islands is a real challenge for cohesion policy: the specific features of the territory require detailed forecasts, a clear and specific regulatory framework for the approach to the objective pursued and appropriate policy intervention. we fully agree with the observations made by the european court of auditors as regards both the individual aspects of the application of the aid scheme and its overall effectiveness. a new strategy will have to be drawn up, clearly defining the relationship between the various measures proposed and the general objectives pursued, as well as the expected impact. only through a stronger bottom-up partnership with the new local government structures in greece can the scheme be applied more targeted and better adapted to the real needs of agricultural activity in the aegean islands.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr papastamkos, which is a change from the existing osei system, as it is an important step towards closing the gap between the different areas, in this case by providing support for agriculture in the more isolated areas, such as the smaller aegean islands. transport is still lacking in these areas and there are numerous problems with the supply of raw materials, water and electricity. taking account of their particular needs and specificities, this report will provide ad hoc provisions for the smaller aegean islands, but which may be extended in the future to other small islands, such as the ionian islands. these provisions will help these areas to overcome the difficulties that the local agricultural sector faces on a daily basis. supporting agriculture will also help to preserve the local natural and cultural heritage and avoid over-dependence on tourism, the main source of income.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council introducing specific measures in the field of agriculture for the smaller aegean islands, as i believe that strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union is an important factor for a harmonious and balanced development. union action shall aim at reducing the disparity between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least favoured areas, in particular island, cross-border and mountain areas. the dispersion of islands and their grouping into archipelagos constitute obstacles to supply and trade, raising transport costs considerably. existing transport networks are characterised by structural weaknesses and deficiencies such as ageing fleets and high transport tariffs. these conditions create a serious problem for the supply of the smaller islands. the small size, the difficulty of access both from outside and from within, the demographic decline, the ageing of the population, the lack of basic raw materials (water, electricity, fuel), as well as the geophysical and climatic conditions, are the factors that determine the very particular environment of the smaller aegean islands.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said earlier, i am in favour of adopting these specific measures for the outermost regions. the approval of this recognition is based on article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, but these same conditions of structural disadvantage are shared by all the union's island territories, especially in the mediterranean, and i am referring in particular to sardinia, corsica and crete. however, these islands do not benefit from any special scheme designed to stimulate their economic growth. however, there is a special rule in the treaty, which is that of article 174, and the european parliament has already voted to implement a strategic plan to overcome the constraint of insularity with the own-initiative report establishing the mediterranean macro-region, approved by a large majority in july 2012. it is therefore a matter of pursuing this path by proceeding through a strategic plan for overcoming insularity, to see that transport costs are contained and to ensure that these regions can be linked to the continent, the single market and the ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. - the causes and conditions for a specific regime in agriculture with reference to the outermost regions of the european union are many and complex. distance from markets, small area, topography and exceptional climatic conditions are just some of the factors that cause various socio-economic problems and have a negative impact on the competitiveness of both agriculture and industrial transformation. my vote in favour of this resolution is in line with the opinion i expressed as rapporteur in the committee on budgets, in which i pointed out the insufficiency of the resources allocated under the posei programmes (eur 653 million for the nine regions), as shown by the decline in agriculture and by some decisions taken at national level to support the posei programmes through state aid. structural problems and the increasing pressure of competition from imports from third countries explain the strongly negative trend in many sectors. it is clear that, given the specific nature and vulnerability of these islands, it is necessary to contribute to their economic recovery through more targeted and longer-term projects.
in writing. - european guidance programmes to overcome the remoteness and insularity of certain regions play an indispensable role in maintaining and developing agricultural production and the processing industry. without these posei programmes, the viability of the beneficiary sectors would be threatened by the economic difficulties faced by these regions, which are a consequence of their geographical situation and the limited scope for diversification of their activities. the profitability of their agricultural and industrial production depends on this system. in a period of crisis, with unemployment rates often above national averages, the specific financial regime should not only be maintained but also strengthened as far as possible. we share the rapporteur's regret that the proposal does not include a reference to the legal basis of the treaty specifically for the outermost regions and we therefore propose that it be reintroduced. we also believe that the financial allocation for these programmes (eur 653 million for the nine regions) is totally insufficient, as evidenced by the fact that agriculture is in a state of decline and that at national level certain decisions have been taken to support posei more with state aid.
in writing. - the cap reform has had a negative impact on the trading system of the eu's outermost regions. it is therefore important to carry out impact assessments of eu-approved reforms and trade agreements on these regions so that they can identify the aid they need. the report by mr adrover on the nine outermost regions of france, spain and portugal opens up the possibility of specialised aid in the agricultural sector and regional trade in order to meet the needs of the local economy while maintaining the budget integrated as laid down in the treaty on european union.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council introducing specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions of the union because the posei programmes, introduced in 1991 to support the french overseas departments (dom), and extended a year later to the new outermost areas of portugal and spain, play an indispensable role in maintaining and developing agricultural production and the processing industry in these regions. without the posei programmes, the viability of the beneficiary sectors would be threatened today because of the economic difficulties faced by these regions due to their geographical location and the limited scope for diversifying their activities. in a time of crisis, with unemployment rates in these regions often above national averages, the scheme should not only be maintained but also strengthened as far as possible. the union should also step up border controls on imports from third countries, the production of which should comply with the same veterinary and phytosanitary requirements as those imposed on farmers and livestock farmers in the outermost regions, in order to avoid unfair competition with local production.
in writing. - we all know how essential the specific guidance programmes are for the maintenance and development of agricultural production and the processing industry in the outermost regions. in a time of crisis, when these regions are faced with unemployment rates often higher than the national average, it is appropriate not only to maintain this system but also to strengthen it as much as possible. it is also worth considering how the outermost regions' production is vulnerable to increased imports from third countries. the costs of remoteness and isolation must be added to those resulting from the applicable food safety and environmental standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to get out of the crisis we must re-activate investment in support of small and mediumsized enterprises if we are to give growth and employment a new impetus. small and mediumsized enterprises are a driving force in our economy. it is therefore necessary to facilitate access to credit, especially in a time of difficulty and crisis, to build a new relationship between business and the banking system, and to streamline and simplify public administration. in essence, we need a public administration and a banking system that is friendly to business. finally, it is important to work towards ensuring that bank credit is not the only form of financing for businesses. in this respect, much progress has been made in diversifying credit and in restoring europe's competitiveness, innovation and above all competitiveness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the dossier by mr de backer because it deals with the subject of small and mediumsized enterprises, recognising their strategic role in overcoming the crisis and restoring economic growth. the main issues raised are access to finance by firms and the low level of capital which they have, and which the commission and parliament are obliged to tackle by means of a whole series of measures to overcome and promote this by circumventing the increasingly stringent guarantee requirements imposed by banking institutions. development must also be achieved by opening up enterprises to venture capital, which is also facilitated by the creation of regional stock markets designed specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises, thus opening up the introduction of best business practices, encouraging business growth and the demand for new skilled employment. the crisis is being fought on all fronts and with these policies, if implemented, would ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, smes represent 98% of european enterprises and account for 60% of jobs in the union. we often say that if every sme could hire just one person, we could create 23 million new jobs and solve the problem of unemployment in europe. instead, in this time of crisis, smes are cut off from even access to credit, while the money of citizens goes to the banks in difficulty, as happened these days at monte dei paschi in siena, italy. the situation is tragic: in 2012, more than a thousand businesses were closing every day in italy. in my region, lazio, 90 enterprises a day, with a heavy impact on the economic and, above all, social fabric. so concrete action is needed now to facilitate access to credit, to introduce the sme supporting factor and also, very importantly, to simplify bureaucracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how important small and mediumsized enterprises are to the european union. indeed, they are the backbone of the economy, providing some 90 million jobs in the 27 member states as well. the economic crisis has shown that without effective and practical support, small and medium-sized enterprises are too vulnerable. access to credit is essential to finance business investment, to ensure that businesses realise their growth potential and to facilitate the creation of new businesses. of course, all this contributes to growth and job creation at the same time. if we are to support the more than 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises operating throughout europe, we need to plan our financial resources optimally. we must give our companies better access to finance, by giving them a solid basis for exports and industrial production. we will have millions of new creative and innovative businesses and we will renew the economic base of europe, making it stronger and less vulnerable to economic turbulence.
in writing. the action plan proposed by the european commission has a positive approach. however, it focuses heavily on venture capital without sufficiently supporting alternative financing mechanisms. this is accompanied by the need to ensure more resources for smes under the cosme and horizon 2020 programmes and the commitment to maintain, also in the context of a simplification of the regulatory and administrative environment for smes, the social protection of workers and their health and safety at work. the document as a whole, however, takes account of the requests that have arisen outside the parliamentary debate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the de backer own-initiative report which analyses the causes and solutions for improving access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises. in europe, and especially in italy, smes play a fundamental role in the economic structure and are able to provide employment for as much as 67% of our citizens. i believe that these businesses must be given increased support and, especially at this time of economic crisis, greater access to credit through the banking sector, which has received so much in the form of economic aid from the european union.
in writing. - i fully subscribe to the analysis underlying the arguments in the report, which i appreciate and therefore approve with a favourable vote. the rapporteur has clearly identified the implications of the contraction in business credit, which must be recognised as one of the main threats to our productive system. combined with onerous tax pressure and risks arising from the position of smes in the production chain, the lack of availability of credit institutions to finance enterprises has already resulted in many areas in a negative balance of enterprises, increased unemployment and the impoverishment of the tax base, thus contributing to a vicious cycle of recessionary footprint. the increase in the eib's lending capacity is therefore welcome, but it will have to be accompanied by strict measures to ensure that credit is actually directed to smes. it is true that, despite all their new and old vulnerabilities, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, smes still provide two thirds of all jobs in the eu. but above all, as mentioned in point 41), they are a factor of stability and social cohesion of communities, especially in times of crisis, a phenomenon also highlighted by a recent research by escp europe, based in turin. : see minutes
in writing. - i voted in favour of improving the financing facilities for smes, which are the backbone of the economic system and need better access to microcredit. they account for more than 80% of european enterprises and are the ones helping to create the jobs needed to overcome the crisis. in line with the council's decisions, i strongly support the need to increase the capital of the eib by 10 billion in order to stimulate investment, estimated at some 180 billion. another key point is the need to provide more support and information to smes through appropriate mentoring and coaching programmes, bearing in mind that it is useless to prepare new tools if those who have to use them do not have the key information to know and use them efficiently and consciously. on the other hand, smes must be more involved in the preparation of the rules that affect them through active participation, thus helping parliament to assess the consequences that the new legislation may have. i also strongly believe that at least 20% of the budget for horizon 2020 should be allocated to smes, also consolidating the overall financial envelope of the funding instruments contained in both horizon 2020 and cosme.
in writing. - i congratulate mr de backer on his work in defence of smes: in particular, in these times, improving their financing capacity is becoming essential for the economic recovery of the eu as a whole. i think it is right to stress the problem of late payment. the directive adopted by this parliament in 2010 should have been implemented more quickly and more effectively. it is also worth noting the other major problems: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the system's efficiency requires that the latter put themselves in the shoes of the firm in order to understand its needs, development plans and, therefore, solvency and potential. as long as each of these two worlds speaks a different language, it will be difficult to find the point of convergence, to the detriment of the efficiency of the system. i think it is also right to stress the diversity of the sme world. the two examples i have just mentioned will certainly have different needs and totally different funders. i am not going to confuse this with the fact that we should also be able to segment the rules to make it easier for smes to access the right funding channel.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr de backer's report because i believe that the commission's proposals to improve access to finance for smes can be welcomed, although they require appropriate measures. in particular, given the importance of smes in the economic fabric of the european union, moving towards professionalisation of the sector, improved cooperation and exchange of information between smes and creditors and the establishment of clear rules on the use of collateral and on early repayment of credit are all virtuous steps. however, these measures should not be applied to all smes in the eu, but should take into account the specificities of each country.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises are of fundamental importance to the union, they are the backbone of the european economy as important engines of economic growth. the financial crisis of recent years has weighed heavily on the ability of smes to access credit, leading to a sharp and widespread contraction in investment. due to increasingly stringent capital requirements, creditors often ask for other personal guarantees in addition to normal bank guarantees. this can be an additional obstacle for entrepreneurs who want to start new businesses or make further investments in their smes. we welcome the commission's proposal to improve access to finance for smes, but we would stress that the emphasis on risk capital is an appropriate form of financing for a small number of smes in their growth phase. we therefore ask that we also support alternative financing mechanisms. at this time of crisis, in some member states, the current accounts show a massive inflow of household savings. we therefore invite the commission to consider how the european union and the member states can facilitate the activation of savings, for example by introducing specific tax incentives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of improving access to finance for smes, as they are the backbone of the european economy and make a huge contribution to job creation in the member states of the european union. unfortunately, in the aftermath of the crisis, smes have emerged as vulnerable, with severe difficulties in accessing finance. these difficulties vary between the different community markets. the lack of transparency in early repayment of debt, or the loss of funding, is a serious problem for smes. with the tightening of the requirements for financing, such as the introduction of the requirement for personal guarantees in addition to capital guarantees, it has become even more difficult for entrepreneurs to obtain the funds necessary to start new activities or to make investments in their existing businesses. in this regard, it is essential to improve the exchange of information between smes and creditors by implementing clear rules on the use of collateral in early repayment and on the existence of any penalties in the event of a loss of funding that may affect the profitability of smes. the aim must be to achieve harmonization leading to the creation of alternative financing mechanisms capable of meeting the different needs of all smes in the community.
in writing. - this is not the first time that we have discussed in this house how to improve access to credit for smes. we are right to point out that this sector represents 98% of all european enterprises and employs 67% of all jobs in the european union. in the last decade, small and mediumsized enterprises have been the only ones able to create new jobs. this report acknowledges some truths that may have been overlooked in the past, namely that there is a great heterogeneity within smes, with profound differences both between and within different countries. the needs of a traditional small family business are certainly different from those of a young sme, for example, which is all about research and innovation. the financing instruments available must therefore also be different. in this area it is the banks who have the responsibility for action, action which has not been very effective in recent times. the credit institutions have preferred to use the money the ecb had given them for supporting businesses and the real economy in a different way, but an immediate reversal is now essential.
in writing. - we support the report by mr de backer on improving access to finance for smes. at a time of economic and financial crisis, it is essential to give greater support to european smes, which represent a heterogeneous reality both in terms of production and human capital, a heterogeneity useful for the economic recovery of the union. we hope that the commission can help to create and develop smes through appropriate mentoring programmes that strengthen their capacity to access financial instruments. the de backer report also highlights the importance of continuing efforts at national level to implement the 'think small' principle, i.e. to focus on improving competitiveness through appropriate legislative proposals for smes. we must also pay particular attention to all european smes which are emerging and are trying to conquer the markets of those third countries with which we have free trade agreements, financial support which goes hand in hand with control and, unfortunately, the essential respect for shared rules.
in writing. - i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done on this report, which i am particularly pleased with. smes are the backbone of the european economy, capable of creating growth and jobs, and supporting them is the basis of the recovery process. i welcome initiatives to improve cooperation between banks and businesses. the banking sector has benefited greatly from state aid during this crisis, now it is time for banks to start supporting companies that need liquidity to revive their business activities. alternative forms of financing for smes should also be identified, such as access to stock markets, the use of venture capital or the use of state aid as for banks. nevertheless, we must act at the level of individual member states to ensure greater harmonisation by eliminating differences between firms, for example in terms of access to credit. as long as these differences exist, there will always be a difference in competitiveness which will be to the detriment of some states and to the benefit of others.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report on improving access to finance for smes. smes make a huge contribution to job creation in the 27 member states of the european union. the economic and financial crisis has made them vulnerable in several ways. creditors have become more cautious, investment has declined and the negative effects of delays and payment terms are worsening. the present proposal will overcome these difficulties by improving the professionalisation of the sector and the cooperation and exchange of information between smes and creditors, by monitoring the financial situation of smes more regularly, and by laying down clear rules on the use of guarantees and on the early repayment of credit. for these reasons, i am convinced that this proposal will enable smes to regain their role as important drivers of economic growth in the union.
in writing. − small businesses need tailor-made loans, alternative forms of venture capital, clearer rules on working with lenders and faster payments from other businesses. in fact, there are more than 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, each with its own needs. this great diversity needs clear rules for state funding and for alternatives to bank loans. innovative forms of venture capital can help to bridge the gaps. financial institutions and creditors should also make efforts to communicate with entrepreneurs and to have clearer rules on the use of guarantees, early repayments and possible penalties. in particular, small enterprises (such as family-run enterprises, high-tech enterprises and start-ups) have more difficulty than other economic actors in obtaining financing. it is therefore essential to ask banks which are receiving state aid or support from the european central bank to overcome the crisis to provide loans tailored to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - i am very much in favour of this report because in a time of crisis such as the present one, improving access to finance for smes is useful and necessary. in italy, over 50% of the available european funding is lost each year because of inability to spend or poor organisation. my country, therefore, between the costs of joining the european union and the inability to use the funds, only gets one euro back for every three euros it pays to the eu. procedures which are too bureaucratic or burdensome for smes often become insurmountable obstacles. provision should be made for easier access for smes and simplified procedures for obtaining small amounts of support. it is also important to provide general information on the contributions available and to provide assistance centres for the compilation of the necessary forms.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr philippe de backer because: 1) support the simplification of the regulatory and administrative environment for smes, together with adequate protection of workers in the areas of social security and health and safety at work; 2. calls on the european commission to support the development of a wide range of programmes, instruments and initiatives with a view to partnership between banks and other actors involved in sme financing such as business associations or chambers of commerce; 3. calls on the commission to make the new sme legislation subject to a comprehensive and inclusive impact assessment, including an examination of the needs and difficulties faced by smes; 4) calls for action to be taken against possible discrimination in access to finance for smes run by disadvantaged people or social groups and for the promotion of female entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i am in favour of parliament's motion for a resolution to improve access to finance for smes, since smes represent more than 98% of european enterprises and provide 67% of jobs in the union. they are therefore the backbone of the european union economy and of europe's long-term economic growth with the potential to create sustainable jobs in the 27 member states. 85% of all new jobs created in the eu between 2002 and 2010 were created by smes, particularly by new firms. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni). the crisis has led some creditors to become more cautious in lending to smes. in addition, new strict rules on, for example, financial institutions and capital requirements, implemented by both the eu and national authorities, have made it more difficult for smes to access finance. smes are often at the end of a long supply life cycle and are therefore the most affected by the delays and payment terms currently in use.
in writing. − the crisis situation that has been affecting western economies since 2008 has particularly affected small and medium-sized enterprises, making it more difficult and complicated for them to access finance. small and medium-sized enterprises have always been of fundamental importance to the union and are the backbone of the european economy, contributing to capital creation as well as employment. that is why i strongly support the improvement of access to finance for smes and policies which are characterised by a flexible approach, taking account of the differences between the various european smes and the need to define different financing systems, both in the context of equity and debt instruments.
the next item is the report by mrs elisa ferreira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of education, training and youth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have enjoyed reviewing and hearing many of my colleagues' arguments on political ideology, but my speech will be a little sadder. the situation in many european countries is particularly tragic from the point of view of employment. the unemployed are continuing to rise, especially in those countries which are now forced to make a difficult and too rapid adjustment to their budgets. there is no way that people in europe in 2013 are dying because they don't have a job. the last case concerns, unfortunately, a 50-year-old worker from vaiano, in tuscany, which is also my home town and where i live, who decided to take his own life because he was exasperated by this situation. it is the people who have to face the crisis we are living in and it is the people who have to be at the centre of our thinking and our actions. all this to say that it is all very well to repair and save the economy, but society is made up of individuals who may have difficulty absorbing quickly decisions made from above, decisions which should therefore be thoroughly assessed in terms of their impact on reality and on the concrete lives of citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, as we have said on several occasions, the rules on the internal market are still not being applied enough in the european countries, and they therefore need to be implemented very quickly, they need a control which has not been in place until now and which it is important to introduce effectively. but we also said that the internal market has enormous potential. for this reason, i believe it is right, as mr schwab's report proposes, to make the rules on the internal market and its governance a link with policies relating to development, growth, employment and economic policies in general, so that this is the concrete and coordinated basis of the european semester. this is to the benefit of the semester itself, on the one hand, and to the benefit, on the other hand, of the implementation and development of the internal market. it is very important that this should happen, but in order for this orientation and this line to work, there are certain conditions that must be met. the first: we must begin to think that citizens should not be considered, first of all, of course, in the committee on the internal market but also in general, as consumers or as representatives of business. citizens are also workers and therefore need to have uniformity in their conditions, the conditions concerning their rights and the conditions concerning their different forms of professional activity in the undertakings in which they are engaged. the same uniformity must also be applied to all the ways in which the practice of an undertaking is strengthened. the preventive comparison with all stakeholders, starting with suppliers and contractors and ending with the representatives of the economic activities that take place in that enterprise. and then, i would say, the indispensable relationship with the national parliaments. any internal market policy and the european semester, such as the one we have launched, which only concern the activities of the european union would be important but not sufficient. it is necessary to establish forms and methods of linking the work you do, the work parliament does and the work which is entrusted to all the various institutional bodies in the individual countries for their implementation or support. that is why the relationship between the european parliament and the national parliaments is likely to become - and, in my view, is already objectively - decisive.
madam president, we are having a strange debate. we are discussing two balanced reports, and then the third one, the report by ms ferreira, on which the epp has chosen to follow an ideological and extremist line, sticking to the defence of an integralist version of austerity policy. the members of berlusconi’s party in this parliament are performing the miracle of being extremist twice over: extremist in italy against austerity, and extremist in this parliament in supporting austerity, but behind the ideologies there is reality, and the reality is that the rate of fiscal consolidation is not only worsening the recession and unemployment, it is not reaching its main goal: the reduction of deficit and debt. open your eyes, epp colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. with your medicine, public debt is growing in europe, and if we want to reduce it, fiscal discipline must not be blind. it must be growth-friendly; it must leave room for public investment and have a sustainable space. after the imf, the commission and the european council are recognising this reality, but not the epp in the econ committee, which even went so far as to delete a paragraph which simply welcomed the efforts of the commission to pursue growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. we hope that in plenary the epp will isolate its extremists and will return to moderation and a spirit of compromise, but if this does not happen, our ‘no’ will be loud and clear.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the opinion rapporteurs for their valuable contribution to the report. for a long time we have been confronted with two opposing interpretations of social responsibility: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. as is often the case, i believe that the truth lies somewhere in the middle. i therefore agree with the commission's new definition, which neutralizes the opposition between voluntary and mandatory approaches which had so far polarized the discussions. the plurality of regulatory approaches shows that social responsibility develops on the basis of various processes which include both voluntary and binding elements. on the basis of these considerations, i have identified three areas of intervention for the future development of social responsibility. first, the link between social responsibility and competitiveness will need to be strengthened. it is becoming increasingly clear, more and more obvious, that social responsibility contributes to increasing the competitiveness of a company. this does not mean that any form of social responsibility reinforces the competitive advantage of the company, but that certain actions can enhance a company if they create shared value between the company, its stakeholders and society in general. in other words, whether these actions make it possible to strengthen the reciprocity between the commercial strategies of enterprises and the social context in which they operate. for this reason, it is necessary to encourage innovative business solutions, such as intelligent transport or eco-efficient products, which enable businesses to address social and environmental challenges while strengthening their market position. a second area of intervention concerns the broader objective of improving the transparency and effectiveness of social responsibility policies. this is a commitment that goes hand in hand with efforts to increase the level of public confidence. i therefore agree with the objectives of improving the processes of self-regulation and co-regulation of undertakings. finally, as regards the possibility of regulating the transparency of social and environmental information, it is essential that any intervention in this respect be compatible with the multidimensional nature of social responsibility and grant enterprises the necessary operational flexibility without causing additional administrative burdens. finally, the third aspect concerns the relationship between social responsibility and small and mediumsized enterprises. smes can not only facilitate the spread of social responsibility, but they have the potential to tackle social and environmental problems collectively, reducing costs and multiplying benefits. public authorities should therefore promote the dissemination of social responsibility among smes by, for example, supporting the role of intermediary organisations. similarly, guides or manuals or even specific strategies could be developed, especially for micro-enterprises. in short, the relationship between smes and social responsibility is a relatively unexplored area of action which deserves specific consideration, taking into account the specific characteristics of smes and their intuitive approach to social responsibility. i would like to end by reiterating to vice-president tajani the support of this parliament for the strategy and the firm will to follow it closely and to contribute actively together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, if the house votes tomorrow on the texts of the two reports we are discussing, this parliament will have taken the most significant step forward on the subject of social responsibility since jacques delors, exactly 20 years ago, in his white paper, first identified this sum of measures as being necessary to give quality and prospects to the european production system. i think that the new features which are contained in it and which have already been largely indicated are important, starting with the one concerning the abolition of voluntary membership. the issue is no longer about ensuring that businesses recover or build a reputation, but about using these policies to have a positive relationship with the community and its joints, a community in which businesses operate. then the merit elements that have been introduced have their value as well. the definition of corporate governance as an element of social responsibility assessment, as not all organisations give explicit signals of responsibility. the detection of anomalies: the use of individual bonuses for the remuneration of employees or managers, especially in crisis situations, is not responsible behaviour on the part of any undertaking. respect, loyalty in tax policies, for example, is another evaluation element: when there is this loyalty, we are dealing with a behavior that is to be appreciated and therefore falls within the scope of the issues we are discussing. information on the supply chain is very important, as is, i believe, the preventive involvement of the social partners. stakeholders must be treated equally, with the same rights, and it is important that each of them feels involved in the relationship with the company. but it is clear that the social partners, the institutions on the one hand and the representatives of the workforce on the other, need preventive and systematic information. it is very useful that the european label of social responsibility has been proposed: we must reward those who choose to commit themselves to this aspect and do so with loyalty to their partners. finally, i would like to say that i find the proposal in the reports to urge the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal on non-financial information for companies very interesting. in times of difficulty such as the one we are going through, when a company is in difficulty because it has no productive activity, because it is suffering the effects of the crisis, if it has provided timely information on its health, if it has given all its interlocutors the information to know, it will be easier to manage any restructuring process. so a piece of legislation that makes this a well-established practice can be the next positive development we are facing.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that so many speakers have spoken on the subject of corporate social responsibility in the evening session shows how important this subject is to all of us. how important it is for us to build a europe which is not only a europe of banks, money and interest, but also a europe of values. the enterprise is a value, the enterprise is a value if it is understood not only as a reality where there is an entrepreneur who invests, but where beside the entrepreneur there are the workers, there are his collaborators, there is the territory where this enterprise operates, territory that the enterprise must respect. so environmental protection is another value, collaboration between workers and employers is another value. in short, we are making a strong choice because we are taking the lead in this action for corporate social responsibility. it is clear that the many arguments which have emerged from this evening's debate also demonstrate a difference of opinion, a difference of opinion between those who would like a choice of a regulatory type which is binding for everyone and those who are more flexible and prefer a choice which is not binding for businesses. i believe that the most appropriate choice at the moment is one which overcomes this division which has emerged, as i said in my first speech, from the reports by mr howitt and mr baldassarre, and which in substance is in line with the position expressed by the european commission. i believe that this is the direction we must take and i believe that parliament will do well to approve the texts we are discussing this evening, which are certainly a step forward, but above all they show that europe is above all a value, that europe is also made up of ideals which are transformed into concrete actions to show that the values on which our union is founded can also be lived in practice in the world of work, in companies too. and i believe that in a time of crisis, that can bring peace to all of us.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally thank all the members who have spoken with their comments, suggestions, reflections and assessments, both positive and critical. i believe that the key point is the awareness that businesses have and must have more and more of the social role they play in the territory and the area in which they operate. the awareness of their impact on society, which can then be expressed in the various aspects that have also been indicated: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the face of the economic crisis. all this represents an extension of social responsibility in the awareness, first of all, of companies that being socially responsible, that having this sensitivity is an advantage, is a tool for improving also their profits, their ability to place themselves in the market, their ability to be in society. if there is this awareness, we won the bet, not by imposing obligations. the voluntary approach is therefore absolutely necessary, and it is certainly accompanied by a regulatory aspect, but it must not be aimed at imposing further bureaucratic and administrative burdens - in addition, of course, to the laws that must be respected - which, frankly, european companies are already sufficiently burdened with. this mechanism can certainly lead to awareness and a role for both legislators and businesses, and i believe that the path the commission has set out in the words of commissioner tajani this evening is the right one to follow.
in writing. since i've been in politics, i've heard about corporate social responsibility. in my cultural upbringing the function of the enterprise has never been limited to the creation of profit. a company also has a social function. it operates in a social and cultural context which, alongside the economic one, imposes challenges on it involving its responsibility towards citizens and institutions. fair trade, intelligent transport and innovation that takes account of the protection of the territory and the environment are improvement goals. increasing the level of public confidence in business is an important objective. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for transparency in the social and environmental information provided by companies and for the development of a code of ethics for self-regulation to improve the effectiveness of the corporate social responsibility process, provided that this does not increase bureaucracy and administrative burdens. smes can play a key role. they represent 90% of the european business community and can spread the principles of social responsibility. this makes greater involvement of smes a political priority for the future, without however creating additional administrative or financial burdens.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this package of legislation must be adopted. we all agree on the objectives to be achieved, the difference being in the ways, the times and the technologies. the world health organisation has been reminded has been warning us for some time that action is needed in this area because noise, especially in large cities, affects the health of citizens. we must therefore act to protect the health of our citizens, to improve the quality of life, to reduce the decibels that cause stress and disease. but we must not, at the same time, kill the car industry, especially at a time when the car industry is going through a very difficult period. noise is the combination of many factors, not just machines. the level of infrastructure, especially in cities, also contributes significantly. we can't just load everything into cars. i say this especially to my colleagues on the left, to the socialist party, who are rightly very attentive to the problems of employment. the fall in the car market is not only reducing car sales, it is also reducing employment levels in europe. i think we have to be very, very careful about that. the core of this legislation, which is very technical and therefore of little interest to the house, and which we have discussed a great deal in committee, is amendments nos 51 and 61. i want to remind you that 51 passed by one vote and it is very, very unrealistic to go down that road. so my appeal is that 51 be rejected and replaced by 61.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, noise pollution and its effects on human health are not to be underestimated. this is the reason for the reduction in the noise level of motor vehicles introduced by the proposal for a regulation. the economic efforts required by the automotive sector to adapt to the new parameters, a sector which is strategic for employment and which has been hit by the economic crisis, must be carefully assessed. although they share the aims of the proposed parameters introduced in annex 3, they seem unrealistic, both in terms of technology and timing. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive. i am in favour of the introduction of avas, which takes into account the needs of protected groups such as children and the blind, who may be put at risk by vehicles such as electric vehicles with very low noise emissions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why have the citizens lost their confidence in this europe? italians are the highest paying people in europe. the italian farmers are in danger of losing 4 billion euros in the next few years, the textile and footwear workers in italy are grateful for the removal of all the tariffs that make us invade goods from all over the world, even those produced by children, the agricultural workers are grateful for the agreements with morocco and all the other countries of the world that make us eat something that comes from thousands of kilometres away and close down all that is our production. we are talking about savings and we are the only parliament that has two seats, because this seat, which we visit once a month, costs us 400 million euros. you demand that the municipalities pay within 30 days and with the stability pact you leave billions of euros in the coffers of the northern municipalities that cannot pay to cover someone else's debts. you will not need 2 million euros to convince people on twitter and facebook that this is the europe that is good for our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we emphasize and emphasize these debates which we are having on the eve of the council. i believe that the council meeting tomorrow and the day after tomorrow is of particular importance because it is at a turning point: we must either continue with what we call the policy of rigor, or we can take a step forward and start a strategy, a political strategy and an economic development strategy. jean paul fitoussi, who is a keen and intelligent journalist, said yesterday that a policy of rigor for the sake of rigor is intolerable. i believe that europe has done this in essence so far. the german chancellor, when she came and spoke to the members of the european parliament, said that political strategy was no longer possible and that everything depended on balanced budgets. i believe that apart from the figures, which i cannot of course discuss in a minute and a half, and apart from the budget cuts or savings, we need a strategy which leads to development, and therefore a budget which has that meaning. i therefore take this opportunity to ask the president-in-office of the council a formal question, which concerns the whole of europe and also the italians. we italians are net contributors, but when we talk about own resources - something i hear often - what are we talking about? what are own resources? the ones that come from taxes, or through bonds that can have a different european dynamic? i think this is essential to understand whether the budget can certainly have a development hypothesis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has a huge task to perform in relaunching the productive system. it is a gigantic task for the future of young people, half of whom - the so-called europe generation - travel, work, are included, while the other half risk being europe's lost generation or at least the precarious generation. we are faced with a budget which is totally inadequate, which takes away all credibility from all our programmes: europe 2020, cosme and so on and so forth. if the european commission, which is not made up of utopian dreamers, proposes 80 billion for horizon, that means that we need an injection of innovation and i wonder with what unconsciousness we are using this weapon. we need more, because cutting the budget means working against growth and against employment. tell your colleagues, madam minister, and tell them that the story does not end here, it does not end in brussels on 7 and 8 february. the story then passes through this parliament. the treaties say so, but so does politics, because we are the highest democratic legitimacy in europe and we will not give up our part.
i want to be very clear, ladies and gentlemen. the catch the eye programme is now beginning, but we are very short on time because we should be finished by 11.30 and two commissioners and the council representative are already scheduled to speak. i shall take only six speeches, strictly in the order in which the requests were received by the presidency. so there's no point in you putting up signs because i can't do anything. i follow the list that was given to me very strictly. catch the eye procedure
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, even today, and unfortunately also in this house, we hear phrases which seem to justify violence and place the responsibility for it squarely on women. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposals. we must all condemn them forcefully and decisively. without a radical change in mindset, all the efforts we make on a daily basis will be in vain.
the rapporteur. - madam president, this is an oral amendment which inserts the following title after paragraph 47: 'compliance issues and relations with third countries'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the moreira report on the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania. this agreement shall not prejudice the interests of the union. this is a necessary adjustment to restore the rights of the us counterpart following the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu. failure to comply with them would have been a breach of the rules of the world trade organisation.
in writing. - with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, the wto rules have required the opening of negotiations with the wto member countries with negotiating rights in the schedules of one of the acceding countries with a view to agreeing a mutually satisfactory adjustment to compensate for the increase in the consolidated duties and the resulting substantial losses. we therefore welcome the agreement with the united states and we consider it essential that the european parliament should give its approval. the european union and the united states will notify each other of the completion of their respective internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the agreement. we hope that the united states will do so without delay, so that all producers can benefit from market access in a timely manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-us agreement on the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania because, following the accession of the two countries to the eu, it is common practice to review and resolve problems relating to previous customs arrangements. in the specific case, romania and bulgaria, with their accession to the union in 2007, made sure that the eu was obliged to regulate their customs and tariff situation with the us through a common indemnity.
in writing. the text by mr moreira concerns the agreement concluded between the european union and the united states to resolve the problems arising between the parties following the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu. as the two countries concerned have revised their customs and tariff arrangements with the united states following accession, a kind of compensation from the union following the change of regime and concessions for the products of these countries has become necessary.
in writing. - i did not support the berès report analysing the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the report uncritically repeats the programmatic points of the europe 2020 strategy, without considering or analysing the problems of this strategy, its actual feasibility in the medium and long term and the risks arising from the strengthening of the 'economic coordination of the member states', based on the imposition of brussels' surveillance of the budgets of the member states.
in writing. − the commission proposal to the council rightly emphasises, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the aspects of labour market reform and human capital skills. there is now a unanimous consensus on the need to increase the added value of european production systems if, in the face of global competition, we are to maintain sufficient margins of competitiveness to support our social and development model, which is based on the value of the person and on combating inequalities through the exercise of civil liberties and initiative. the five areas of intervention are mainly concerned with the weaknesses of our workforce in this respect, with some countries lagging far behind in tertiary training, adult education and lifelong learning. it is also about promoting processes of social inclusion based on a work culture and increased productivity. the council decision identified a shared strategic and concerted objective, as did the related council decision. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − the unemployment rate in the eu has now reached the highest alert levels. in particular, youth unemployment is one of the economic indicators which unfortunately is most marked by the pace of this crisis. this resolution, which i voted in favour of, is intended to put the problem in a more positive light and to put forward proposals to solve it. there is a need to increase labour market participation and reduce structural unemployment, develop a competent and properly trained workforce, improve the performance of training systems and increase participation in tertiary education.
in writing. - the main problem we are facing as a result of the economic crisis is the exponential increase in unemployment levels, especially among young people. the economic policies of the member states must provide for specific employment guidelines. as foreseen by the europe 2020 strategy, mrs berès' report notes that these employment policies need to be promoted as quickly as possible. the increase in jobs is possible when the economy starts to grow, but growth must be directed to those sectors which can generate labour and increase demand for it. each country must commit itself to fostering the conditions necessary for growth in its specific production system, and the european union will then move towards reform programmes.
in writing. − the text of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides, in article 148, that the council is to confirm for the year 2013 the validity of the guidelines on employment, referred to in the first part of the same article. these guidelines were approved in 2010 for a period of four years, during which time the focus should be on their implementation and on achieving the employment targets set. i have supported the reaffirmation of the employment guidelines for this year too, so that we can continue on the path we started three years ago. increasing employment in europe is a top priority which, together with a high level of productivity and social cohesion, will finally enable us to achieve the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth we are all committed to and have enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − unemployment continues to rise in the euro area, affecting some 18 million people in the various member states. youth unemployment, an even more serious phenomenon, has also reached alarming levels, with rates in some countries exceeding 40%. in this context of economic stagnation, action to increase employment within the union must be promoted. i therefore voted in favour of mrs berès's text, aware that only a strengthening of the member states' employment policies can resuscitate the union and pull it out of the crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the doubts that too often arise in connection with the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products have made it necessary to update the existing regulatory framework, while respecting the exclusive competence of the member states. in deciding on the pricing and reimbursement of medicines, it is therefore essential to promote the production of affordable medicines, to remove barriers to trade in generic medicines and to encourage research and development to ensure affordable care for european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the text proposed by the commission was the result of a careful analysis of the current conditions on the pharmaceutical markets and of the current context and financial constraints to which the competent authorities are subject when it comes to decisions on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products. i fully share the view that the overall objective of this proposal should be to update the existing legislative framework in order to clarify the procedural obligations of the member states and to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the effectiveness of internal market legislation. there were major delays in the decisions on pricing and reimbursement and i believe that with the solutions adopted we will finally be able to remedy this. i have to say that the member states' exclusive competence in this matter has been respected. the minimum procedural requirements should ensure legal certainty and transparency for the national competent authorities. to promote the production of medicinal products and the entry of generic medicinal products onto the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the paranova report on the commission proposal to replace directive 89/105/eec on the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in national health insurance schemes. the amendments will be made in order to adapt the current contents to the requirements of increased transparency to be applied to all pricing and reimbursement measures. the new provisions will take account of the case law of the court of justice and will be accompanied by new instruments to facilitate dialogue with the member states.
in writing. - we welcome the commission's proposal as it is based on a thorough analysis of the current conditions on the pharmaceutical markets and the current context and constraints, especially of a financial nature, to which the competent authorities are subject when deciding on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products. we believe that the general objective of this proposal should be to update the existing legislative framework in order to clarify the procedural obligations of the member states, to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the effectiveness of internal market legislation, to avoid unjustifiable delays in decisions on pricing and reimbursement and to prevent the emergence of barriers to trade in medicinal products. while respecting the exclusive competence of member states to decide on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products, the minimum procedural requirements should also ensure legal certainty and transparency for the competent national authorities, promote the production of medicinal products and the entry of generic medicinal products on the market, and encourage research and development of new medicinal products, with the ultimate aim of facilitating access to affordable care for all patients in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report amending directive 89/105/eec on the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in national insurance schemes, because, in view of the evolution of the market, the pharmaceutical sector also needs controls and rules to ensure fairness and transparency for all citizens, depending on national policies. the member states must immediately implement the new directive which will fix the prices of medicines in each country, making it easier for citizens to choose.
in writing. the report by mrs parvanova on ensuring access to more affordable medical treatment for patients was voted on in plenary today. the project introduces greater transparency and clear limits within which eu countries must decide on the pricing and reimbursement of medicines, thus facilitating the more widespread marketing of generic medicines. the intention is not to replace so-called brand-name medicines but simply to give consumers a choice. the report sets a 60-day deadline for member countries to decide on the pricing and reimbursement of generic medicines, so that cheaper products can be made available more quickly. decisions on pricing and reimbursement for new medicines will have to be taken within 180 days. the new legislation also obliges national competent authorities to disclose the names and declarations of financial interests of their members and advisers in such a way as to ensure transparency and to avoid undue pressure from the strongest interest groups.
in writing. - i support the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in public insurance schemes. i am of the opinion that the general objective of this proposal should be to update the existing legislative framework in order to clarify the procedural obligations of the member states, to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the effectiveness of internal market legislation, to avoid delays in decisions on pricing and reimbursement and to prevent the emergence of barriers to trade in medicinal products. instead, minimum procedural requirements should ensure legal certainty and transparency for the competent national authorities, promote the production of medicinal products, the entry of generic medicinal products onto the market, and encourage research and development of new medicinal products, with the ultimate aim of facilitating access to affordable care for all patients in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote on the reform of the common fisheries policy is a historic vote. the failed policy of overfishing over the last 40 years has threatened the biodiversity of our seas and made our fishermen unemployed or dependent on subsidies, and with the decline of fish stocks europe is now forced to import 66% of the fish it consumes. if we really want to give our seas a future, allow fish stocks to recover and guarantee a concrete future for european fishermen, we must reverse course. by 2015, overfishing must be converted to ecologically sustainable fishing. european subsidies will have to be conditional on compliance with the new rules and coastal and selective fishing will receive special support. the multiannual management plans and the possibility of establishing a network of reserves where all fishing activities are prohibited are therefore welcome in order to repopulate our seas. the ban on discarding dead fish, which results in the waste of 1.7 million tonnes of dead fish in europe every year, must be strengthened by the obligation to land all catches, without exception. the only future for european fisheries is to achieve ecologically sustainable fisheries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to explain my vote, almost unanimously, against this measure. i fully agree with the stated objective of this regulatory initiative to review the common fisheries policy and thus to ensure the sustainability of fisheries, to review the quota system and to rebuild fish stocks. i believe, however, that this objective is being undermined or at least undermined by the european union's attitude of being a mere soulless regulator of the processes it implements. the european union cannot ignore the economic and social implications of such radical reform. i would add that the european legislator must also realistically situate his interventions in the context to which they relate. it is impossible to imagine that the required transformations will take place overnight. for these reasons i voted in favour of mrs fraga's amendment and for these reasons i did not vote in favour of this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. − the fisheries reform aims to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture activities create sustainable environmental conditions in the long term and contribute to food security. although this is an important reform, and one that is all the more necessary given that the current legislation dates back to 2002, it should be stressed that the text voted today severely penalises operators in the sector. i voted against because i thought it was important to provide for a timetable and gradual percentages for the implementation of the landing obligation, including a study of the actual situation of discards and the impact of the landing obligation on the various fisheries. today's vote does not help to reverse the decline of the sector, which has led to a reduction in the profitability of the sector and of the fishing fleets, causing the loss of thousands of jobs.
in writing. - the common fisheries policy in europe has, over the years, failed to achieve much of its objectives. the over-exploitation of our fish stocks, the dramatic weakening of existing stocks and the importation of more than 60% of the fish products consumed on european markets give the impression of a wrong policy. the adoption of this report and the amendments which parliament has made to the commission's proposal are laying the foundations for a reversal of the trend. the introduction of maximum sustainable yield, recovery of fish stocks, marine protected areas, prohibition of discards, regionalisation of responsibilities: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the fishermen in the mediterranean, such as the introduction of a new system of fishing quotas for the mediterranean, the establishment of a sustainable fisheries and aquaculture policy, the protection of the great environmental resource of our seas and the guarantee of the availability of good quality food. this will be coupled with benefits for income and employment levels in the sector. this confirms the fundamental role of parliament as a co-legislator. it is hoped that this largely positive attitude will be confirmed in the discussions with the commission and the council in the coming weeks.
in writing. - the current common fisheries policy has proved to be a failure. the long-standing problems of overfishing, overcapacity, the precarious economic situation of many fisheries undertakings and the social problems associated with the decline of fisheries in coastal regions have not been solved. the new regulation has the ambitious aim of reversing the negative trend and ensuring sustainable and effective fisheries in europe. in particular, overcapacity is a problem in many european fisheries that needs to be addressed urgently. the situation also remains unsatisfactory with regard to the application of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 to bottom trawling which, despite some commendable initiatives implemented at national level, continues to create serious problems for operators in the market segment concerned. i agree with the rapporteur that the adjustment of fishing capacity to the available fishing opportunities should be coordinated between member states and that multiannual plans should be used in order to avoid a patchwork of different national measures. finally, in order to ensure that the objectives of the common fisheries policy are achieved, i would stress the need for the commission to carry out a periodic evaluation of the measures taken at national level in this field.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rodust report analysing the proposal for a parliament and council regulation on the common fisheries policy. the rules and operating mechanisms established for this sector in the previous programming period are outdated and far from the needs of the market and the environment. the fundamental problems of overfishing, the failure of european centralism and the crisis situation of many fisheries companies must be tackled with a new approach. to this end, i certainly welcomed the content of the regulation proposed by the european commission which aims to 'ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities create sustainable environmental conditions in the long term and contribute to the availability of food supplies', mainly affecting maximum sustainable catch, the modification of the functioning of fisheries waste and aquaculture.
in writing. - today's debate saw the adoption by a large majority of the basic regulation for the new common fisheries policy, which, if ratified by the member states, will ensure the sustainability of the sector and put an end to the discharge of fisheries products at sea. i fully agree with the need to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries themselves, to review the quota system and to restore fish stocks. i think that the objective is to be shared, but i do not think that the adoption of this regulation takes account of the economic and social consequences of this reform. the european union today has shown an attitude that is out of touch with reality, because it is impossible to think that the changes required will take place overnight. for these reasons i have accepted the almost isolated position of opposition and have not voted in favour of the regulation.
in writing. - a substantial reform of the common fisheries policy is becoming increasingly necessary and urgent. the long-standing problems (overfishing, overcapacity, the precarious economic situation of many fisheries undertakings, social problems linked to the decline of fisheries in many coastal regions) have not been solved. the new basic regulation must therefore constitute an ambitious pillar to reverse the ongoing negative trend and ensure sustainable and effective fisheries in europe. in order to further increase consistency and ensure that the objectives set are achieved, we believe it is necessary for the commission to periodically assess the measures taken at national level. the advisory bodies should also be consulted on the introduction of the landing obligation and, before its entry into force, should make proposals for the development of a fully documented fishery. they should also make proposals for derogations for fish with a high survival probability. these proposals must of course be subject to subsequent scientific verification.
in writing. - it is undeniable that the common fisheries policy pursued by the european union has so far proved to be a failure. reform was therefore necessary and the report adopted today is going in that direction. european seas have seen fish stocks decline dramatically in recent years, with the risk that imports from outside the eu will have to be relied on more and more. in addition, fishing has shown a declining profitability, with the risk that fewer and fewer people will be engaged in this type of activity which has its great economic and commercial importance, which unfortunately is often not valued. i am pleased that the reform of the cfp has given due weight to small-scale fishing, which is a valuable source of livelihood for many families and which has been too often neglected in recent years in favour of large fleets of fishing vessels. i hope that fishing will gain a new impetus, because for many sea-faring communities it is an essential activity with significant, and we hope increasing, economic and employment implications.
in writing. − the reform of the common fisheries policy is a priority for the european union as a whole. from 2014 it will be easier to plan for a sustainable development of the sector that will end the dumping of so-called 'waste' at sea. intensive fishing practices will now be countered by new rules which will take into account the reproduction rates of the different species, bringing fishing back to a more qualitative and sustainable dimension.
in writing. − the process of reforming the common fisheries policy (cfp) is a priority for italy and it is hoped that it will be adopted by the end of 2013. i voted in favour because the commission's proposal is in the interests of our country. we are particularly committed to protecting small-scale fisheries, a concept which has been defined in a uniform way at european level and which aims to enhance the specific character of the mediterranean basin. the united kingdom, for example, also recognized at the fisheries council on 28 january the need to deal with these particular situations using different methods. this reform is aimed primarily at fishermen, the main actors who have to bear the social and economic costs of implementing the new european fisheries policy. this reform must aim to exploit the potential of the sector as much as possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report and i think it is an important achievement for our parliament. the fight against noise pollution is a goal that cannot be left unfulfilled, and yet this goal can only be fully achieved if we make it compatible with the duty to make our society and our world more equal for all, less unequal. i have taken up with the majority of my colleagues in this parliament the question of the protection of the rights and the free movement of blind and partially sighted persons, which we have undertaken to guarantee by signing, among other things, the relevant un convention. fortunately, an amendment was adopted and a neglect on the part of parliament and the european institutions to guarantee fundamental rights was avoided. i believe that we have made a step forward with this measure, but i agree with the objections made by mrs le brun that in future, in relation to these policies, we will have to pay more attention to protecting the interests of small businesses as well and regulate economic sectors in such a way as not to create imbalances and to always give the big companies an advantage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal provides for the introduction of a new test method for measuring the noise level of motor vehicles and new noise limit values for several categories. at such a bad time for the car market in europe, there was absolutely no need to produce a further regulation which would impose further burdens on motor vehicle manufacturers. the measure, already bad in its origins for an economy in crisis, was further aggravated by an amendment proposed by the left and approved by a narrow margin in the envi committee. the text that came out of the committee was so negative that the rapporteur, mr ouzký, had voted against it. the house then tabled amendments to bring the regulation back into line. this morning those amendments were voted in favour and so, consequently, our vote was in favour too.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles has the main objective of protecting public health and the environment by means of measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. it provides for the introduction of a new test method for measuring the sound level of motor vehicles and new noise limit values for different categories of light, medium and heavy vehicles. while i welcome the general thrust of the proposal as an important step in countering the effects on public health and the environment of noise emissions from motor vehicles, i do not think it pays sufficient attention to consumer information on the noise level of motor vehicles. i therefore agree with the rapporteur on the introduction of a vehicle noise labelling system which promotes low-noise vehicles and allows consumers to make an informed choice before buying a vehicle. i would draw the commission's attention to the need to update the technical requirements governing methods of measuring the sound levels of motor vehicles in order to adapt the proposal to technical developments in test procedures and to improve the general applicability of the requirements.
in writing. - we pay attention to technical additions and adjustments to encourage the manufacture of vehicles with lower noise levels. this can make the industry more competitive and high-level but could mean additional burdens and costs for the automotive industries especially who are experiencing a time of crisis. noise is the consequence of many factors, machines cannot be the only ones to blame. there is no doubt that the health of the citizens comes first and it is our duty to improve their quality of life, but we must be careful about technical aspects, as they could have consequences in terms of employment in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs liotard's report because i believe that it sets out some important initiatives to combat the effects of noise emissions from motor vehicles on public health and the environment. in detail, the problems related to the noise level of motor vehicles are brought under the magnifying glass, making consumers aware and informed as regards the possibility of purchasing motor vehicles with a low noise emission level. i also find the proposal to introduce a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions, aimed at promoting low-noise vehicle types, interesting.
in writing. - in our cities, noise pollution caused by normal daily traffic has reached levels that are now very difficult to sustain and it is therefore right that proposals are put forward to reduce this type of pollution as well. the text voted on today can be considered a good compromise, since it has succeeded in eliminating some ultra-environmental excesses which could have caused considerable damage to motor vehicle manufacturers, who are already not operating in optimum conditions at this time. the right balance must always be struck between respect for the environment and health and the protection of industries and workers. the case of the taranto ilva that has emerged in recent months is perhaps the most striking example, but there are often similar situations and this, with the appropriate comparisons, could be one of them. as vice-president of the disability intergroup in this parliament i am also particularly pleased that an amendment supported by the italian blind and visually impaired union has been included in the report. protecting the autonomy and safety of travel for visually impaired people is undoubtedly of paramount importance.
in writing. - we voted today in strasbourg on the dossier by mr ouzký. the draft law proposes to introduce new noise limits gradually within six (for the type approval of new vehicle types) and eight years (for the registration, sale and entry into service of new vehicles) from the entry into force of the legislation. the limit for standard cars will be reduced from 74 db to 68 db. the most powerful vehicles will have a margin of up to 2 to 6 decibels more. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the fact remains, however, that vehicle noise is also caused by asphalt, tyres and aerodynamics. it also proposes to introduce a system of labelling for new cars to inform consumers about noise levels. similar labels are already used for fuel consumption, tyre noise and co2 emissions.
in writing. - i believe that limits on car noise should be lowered to protect public health. today, in fact, numerous scientific studies show that prolonged exposure to high levels of noise pollution can limit the functioning of internal organs, facilitating the onset of diseases such as cardiovascular diseases. similarly, there is a need to inform consumers about the noise levels of cars, for example by making hybrid and electric vehicles more audible for better protection of pedestrians.
in writing. - i supported the proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles because i believe that it has focused on the objective of finding the right balance between respect for the environment and the health of european citizens on the one hand and the protection of the internal market in motor vehicles and the interests of european industry on the other, particularly at this time of crisis for the whole sector. as regards the noise level of motor vehicles, we have been engaged in a tough negotiation on the limits, checks and timetables of the original european commission proposal. these were too costly for the undertakings and did not take due account of the resources and time available to them. italy has the support of other member states, including germany, in its willingness to favour businesses in a gradual and reasonable transition to the new legislation.
in writing. − traffic noise affects the health and wellbeing of european citizens and the european commission has therefore put forward a proposal for a regulation aimed at reducing noise emissions from motor vehicles by around 25%. this proposal provides for a very ambitious and gradual reduction in noise emissions, which in some cases would create problems for the companies in the sector concerned to implement within the time limits. i would therefore have suggested a slight reduction in the proposed limit values, even if i voted in favour, since the health of european citizens must be protected at all times and in all circumstances. i also support an integrated approach which can provide a combination of vehicle noise limits, effective traffic management, speed limits, better road surfaces, more efficient tyres and proper driving behaviour.
in writing. − the global financial crisis provoked a marked deterioration in economic and social conditions in several member states. nevertheless it is essential that member states with significant economic challenges retain the capacity to handle the tasks related to management of migration flows. therefore it is in the interest of all member states that the commitments made with regards to migration are not compromised as a result of economic difficulties. thus, we support the commission proposal to increase the co-financing rate of the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals for member states experiencing serious financial stability difficulties. the proposal is also an expression of solidarity between member states when it comes to the management of migration flows.
in writing. − in view of the current economic and financial crisis, a rapid response is increasingly needed to counter the effects of the crisis on the economy as a whole, both at european and national level. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: for some member states, the public debt deficit threatens economic growth and a desirable recovery as soon as possible. in order to facilitate the management of union funding in the areas covered by the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals, it is appropriate to allow for an increase of 20% in the eu co-financing rate, as provided for in the text which i voted in favour of.
in writing. - the phenomenon of migration flows in europe is not evenly distributed. effective management of migration flows is very important for the whole of the european union. the failure of a member state to ensure efficient management of migration flows not only affects the country concerned, but also the rest of the member states. it is in the interest of all member states to ensure that the commitments they have made in the field of migration are not affected by the economic difficulties of some of them. efficient systems for monitoring and evaluating the use of resources, with efficient and continuous monitoring, are therefore necessary. since the cofinancing conditions have already been amended to a similar extent and approved for several other funds (e.g. cohesion fund, fisheries fund, agriculture fund, etc.), i think it is reasonable that the migration funds should also be subject to similar amendments.
in writing. − in many member states, the consequences of the economic and financial crisis have had a negative impact on public finances and have resulted in difficulties in meeting the co-financing requirements linked to eu funds. the commission has therefore proposed to increase the co-financing rates for member states benefiting from a financial support mechanism. i believe that effective management of migration flows is in the interest of the whole union. the failure of a country to ensure an efficient management of migration flows not only affects that country but also the other member states. it is therefore essential that member states in serious economic difficulties are still able to carry out the activities related to the management of migration flows. given that the increase in cofinancing rates is a temporary measure, i welcome the proposal to increase the cofinancing rate for member states receiving financial support, thereby creating a solidarity mechanism between member states in the management of migration flows. efficient systems for monitoring the use of resources are essential to avoid, as has already happened, that the misuse of funds in the member states causes difficulties in absorbing european funds.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to approve a proposal from the european commission to increase the possibility of eu co-financing for the external borders fund for member states in financial difficulty. i think this is a good measure, because the european union should be doing more to protect our external borders. we cannot leave a few member states alone to deal with and receive large numbers of migrants. we often talk about european solidarity, sometimes inadequately. this seems to me to be a real area where this principle should really apply. the arab spring uprisings of 2011, the consequences of which are still far from being fully understood, for example, led thousands of north africans to seek refuge in italy. there has been no concrete support from europe, but rather only ingenuous criticism of the way the situation has been handled. the european union must therefore take responsibility for better management of the external borders, not just in words but in concrete actions and initiatives.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending decision no 574/2007/ec in order to increase the co-financing rate of the external borders fund for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties in financial stability. today, due to the serious economic situation, some member states have encountered difficulties in meeting the co-financing requirements linked to eu funds, which has also been evident with regard to the funds related to the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. the aim of the proposal is to increase the union co-financing rate by 20 percentage points, thereby reducing the co-financing needs of the member state concerned. this would bring the co-financing rate to 70%, which could be increased to 95% for projects concerning specific priorities and member states benefiting from the cohesion fund. effective management of migration flows is very important for the whole of the european union. the failure of a member state to ensure efficient management of migration flows not only affects the country concerned, but also many other member states
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, overcapacity is not only destroying the biodiversity of our seas, it is also severely reducing any future prospects for the fishermen of the union. the regulation on the protection of juveniles is certainly an effective instrument if we really want to allow fish stocks to recover. by adopting specific measures to determine the type of gear used, the mesh size of the nets, the respect of the quotas allowed and the times during which fishing is allowed, we can and must prevent the continued fishing of the young fish that must be allowed to grow to repopulate our seas. without these measures and without strict controls, our sea has no future. unfortunately, in many member states, and particularly in italy, not a day goes by without the coast guard registering serious breaches of the regulation on the protection of juveniles. the european fisheries sector can only survive if it becomes truly sustainable.
in writing. − the adoption of these measures in conjunction with the vote on the new regulation on the common fisheries policy represents an integrated approach, widely shared in parliament, to a subject which is fundamental to the future sustainability of the union's fisheries resources. pending the adoption of a regionalised framework of technical measures in accordance with the common fisheries policy, this regulation will certainly be able to contribute to the satisfactory achievement of the objectives of the cfp.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gallagher report on the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 850/98 for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1288/2009. the technical measures shall lay down rules on fishing zones, the gear used in respect of the permitted quantities, the minimum mesh size of nets, the zones and the periods of prohibition. the text proposes a transitional extension of the rules on these measures, which will remain valid until a framework of technical measures in line with the new common fisheries policy is adopted, and an update of them following the opinion of the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries.
in writing. − i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 850/98 for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1288/2009, as technical conservation measures are standards that fishermen throughout the european union are required to comply with on a daily basis in their fishing trips to ensure that fishing is always sustainable, regardless of how and where it is carried out. these measures concern, inter alia, minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size of nets, no-take zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment, thus having a significant impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp). i therefore fully recognize the need for technical measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and the conservation of ecosystems. i believe that european fishermen need more legal clarity.
in writing. the commissioner also stressed that the eu's policy on fisheries was not a one-size-fits-all approach, but rather a policy of cooperation between the member states and the commission. while i strongly recognise the need to respect the marine environment, i believe it would be more appropriate to bring the rate of discard from the 3% proposed in the report to the 10% proposed by the ppe group, to protect operators in the sector who, in some cases, risk not seeing their interests safeguarded.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because violence against women remains one of the most serious human rights violations present in every country of the world. many societies where women and men are not ensured equal rights perpetuate a structural form of violence against women. we need to bear in mind that all forms of gender-based violence, physical, sexual or psychological, need to be tackled. to put an end to the violence against women requires international cooperation and action, firm commitment from political leaders at all levels, as well as more substantial levels of financing. for these reasons, with this resolution we urge the commission to propose an eu strategy against violence against women, including a directive laying down minimum standards of protection. in addition we ask the eu external action service to ensure that the human rights of women and girls are protected and advanced in all actions and dialogues in which the service is involved.
in writing. - violence against women remains one of the most serious scourges in european societies and in the world. it affects girls and women in a dramatic way and across cultures, religions, social classes, economic situations and nationalities. the political responsibilities arising from this phenomenon, which shows no sign of abating, are heavy and call into question all institutional levels. the responses and initiatives so far have proved to be wholly inadequate. the union and the member states must make every effort to change their political behaviour as soon as possible, both within the union and in their relations with third countries. we need more support for local and international ngos and all those working for women at risk of or victims of violence. the union and the member states are also responsible for defining stringent policies and allocating more resources to programmes, projects and initiatives to support any useful action in this area. the ratification of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women can no longer be postponed. it is the task of the union to urge the member states to do so.
in writing. - i wanted to support this resolution so that the european union too could send a strong signal to try to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against women, also in view of the 57th session of the united nations commission on the status of women which is to be held at the beginning of march. in fact, millions of women and girls are still victims of violence every day and in every part of the world. we are talking about the mutilation of the genitals in africa, the rape in india, and all the other things that are happening in italy and europe. i am pleased that the text refers to the need for the status of women to be considered as one of the essential values in the eu's external action, to which the european external action service must pay the utmost attention. of course, action must also be taken within the union, and quickly, and the member states must make efforts to prevent any possible manifestation of violence against women. it is certainly not easy, considering also the fact that a great deal of violence takes place within the walls of the home, but action must be continuous and unceasing, to put an end to these heinous crimes.
in writing. - it is not easy to reach agreement on the conjugacy of violence against women. there is physical violence that must be condemned at all times and in all circumstances. there is social violence: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to combat poverty. and there is violence that comes from certain tribal cultures that force girls to undergo horrendous genital mutilation. i believe we cannot discriminate and select the form of violence that is most convenient for us. all forms of violence must be condemned without appeal, without discount, without justification or false remorse. rape is unprecedented violence, prostitution is an unforgivable crime, mutilation is barbaric brutality, a lower wage is an unacceptable abuse, covering up against one's will is a coercion that does not respect the dignity of women, preventing education is criminal tyranny. and to stop the birth of daughters against the will of the mother, what form of violence is that? is it permissible to speak of violence, of extreme violence, in these cases? i support the resolution in the hope that the un committee will take account of all the violence against "half of the sky".
in writing. - i give my vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 57th session of the united nations commission on the status of women (csw): prevention and elimination of all forms of violence against women and girls. violence against women and girls is one of the most serious and widespread structural human rights violations worldwide. it is a phenomenon that involves victims and perpetrators of all ages, educational levels, incomes and social positions and is both a consequence and a cause of inequality between women and men. to eradicate this scourge, more international cooperation and action, a strong commitment from policy makers at all levels, and more appropriate funding are needed. for these reasons, i hope that this proposal will urge the eu and its member states to review the policies, programmes and resources available to tackle the problem of violence inside and outside the eu and to strengthen their strategy with updated tools and ambitious targets.
in writing. - the proposal to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls is one with which i fully agree. violence against women persists in all countries of the world as the most widespread violation of human rights worldwide. it is a phenomenon that involves victims and perpetrators of all ages, educational levels, income and social status, and is both a consequence and a cause of inequality between women and men with significant economic and social costs, limiting and undermining the economic growth and development of the countries concerned. the eu and its member states are therefore required to increase the allocation of funds to eradicate violence against women and girls globally. the eu must therefore continue to pursue and support a global awareness-raising campaign to prevent violence against women and girls in order to take further steps to make our communities and countries safe, ensuring full respect for the human rights of women and girls worldwide.
i have given the floor to all the colleagues who have asked for it with the blue card. so i respect the rules and i try to follow them. catch the eye procedure
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: question with request for an oral reply to the council on eu preparations for unfccc cop 19 by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000214/2012 b7-0107/2013), and question with request for an oral reply to the commission on eu preparations for unfccc cop 19 by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000215/2012 b7-0106/2013).
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their contribution to this very important debate. i agree with the many contributions which said that this is an urgent matter and that we have to address it as such, and in a coherent and effective manner. that is one of the biggest global challenges that we face, but it is one that the eu and our member states can take the lead on in shaping a new legally binding agreement for all. that is our clear objective. that is the objective of the irish presidency and it is the objective of all of the european institutions. listening to the comments here, all our institutions share that ambition to take real action which can embrace, and indeed champion, the move to a low-carbon and more sustainable economy. that is what we have to work towards. each of us has opportunities to actively engage and to promote more concerted and ambitious action by other countries besides the european union. i would encourage all of you to continue to speak to your counterparts and to try to build momentum towards 2015, which is what we will be doing. i will address a number of points that were specifically made and the questions asked. mr eickhout asked what the irish presidency is doing about leading on the development of a 2030 target. as i said in my introduction, as the presidency we are working closely with the commission. we are facilitating a debate at ministerial level at the forthcoming informal council meeting in april, which will involve both energy and environment ministers. this will make an important contribution to driving the debate forward. on the issue of climate finance, which was raised by a number of contributors, the irish presidency intends to move forward the analysis, and indeed the debate, on climate finance, especially in relation to future finance flows. the eu has fully met its fast-start finance contribution of over eur 7 billion, and in doha countries have made pledges over eur 5 billion for 2013 and beyond. we want to make further progress and to ensure that we deliver effective financial assistance to the least-developed countries. that work is ongoing and we will continue it. the irish presidency is working collaboratively with all member states, including poland, and with our other partners through the unfccc groupings, in order to further clarify and to better understand our respective positions and to find ways to move closer to an agreed solution. that is the process. it is a process of achieving consensus and of moving together and finding ways in which we can move forward. that is precisely the role of us as presidency and it is precisely what we are trying to do in the council. in response to mr gerbrandy’s question, the irish presidency will do its utmost to engage with parliament. we will also ensure that the key messages which have been sent here this evening will be communicated back to council and to member states. there are a just a few other points which were raised and which i would like to address. ms anderson suggested that the irish presidency should work to identify clear milestones and targets. we will do that, but it is not just the irish presidency. it is important that we do this in a coherent fashion. it is the reason why we have trio presidencies now. we are working very closely with the lithuanian and the greek presidencies – the future presidencies – in order to identify those milestones. we are doing that with the very important assistance of, and stimulation from, the european commission. it is our common objective to get an agreement by 2015. i agree with mr arsenis that we need to accelerate our work and develop clear targets and milestones, not just for the eu and its member states but in partnership with our allies. it is very important that we build alliances and that we reach out to other groupings, regions and countries to build partnerships and to ensure that our position is most effective. the irish presidency, and the entire council, recognises that we cannot simply wait for a 2020 climate-effective world. under the adp we are prioritising actions to improve emissions mitigation now. a number of those steps have already been highlighted by the commissioner, and i do not propose to go over them again. i would simply say in conclusion that i understand that there are very strong feelings here in the chamber and very strong views right across the european parliament and in the other institutions urging us to drive forward with our climate negotiation process and do it by showing leadership, both within council and within the other european institutions, and to make every effort to maintain positive dialogue between the institutions. this is why this process here in the european parliament is so valuable and why we, as the presidency and on behalf of the council, will continue our positive engagement with you as we move forward over the weeks and months ahead.
member of the commission. − mr president, first we should acknowledge the fact that since doha the world has been negotiating on only one track; not in the old two-track system. that is a major accomplishment for the european union, and we should acknowledge that. we should also realise that that is the first step, but to go where we need to go will be extremely challenging. so that is why i greatly value both the discussion here today and the reflections and input from parliament. mr florens, mr carvalho and mr seeber, and other members have asked what is on the european to-do list. that is why we are preparing a paper to stimulate that discussion with member states, with the european parliament and with different stakeholders. what should be the focus? what is the priority? this paper cannot exist in a vacuum. we have to define these things both in the light of where we ideally would like to go and, of course, in the light of to where it is possible to get our partners to move. it is a very much on purpose that we want to start that discussion now, because if we do not start it by 2014 or 2015 very valuable time will be lost. dan jørgensen asked me why the commission does not tell the council to use majority voting. one of the answers is that we know that many member states are against such a thing. i would say to mr jørgensen – who has gone now – that more member states are against that than one would think. so that is not an easy thing. in our discussions today it is very important to send a strong message from parliament: the very strong wish that europe can find its common denominator. but that common denominator should not be a low one. bas eickhout was very right to emphasise the need for europe to get its policies ready for 2030 very soon, because that will be part of discussions up to 2015. that is why the discussion has already started in the commission. our work programme for this year includes presenting what could be a way forward, moving beyond our 2020 targets to 2030. i really, really hope that we can have a strong cooperation with this parliament. mr seeber implicitly asked me whether the european union had delivered what we pledged in kyoto and what we pledged financially. yes we have; that should be said loud and clear: yes we have. it is also clear that we have delivered more than most. but it is also clear, unfortunately, that we have not delivered enough, according to what science tells us. that is why we in europe have to speed up efforts. many in this room today said that we should do more, and with urgency, on energy efficiency and with renewables. i would say, yes, of course. as you know, i agree with all of that. but therefore it is also essential to get the tools right. one of the key tools we have is the emissions trading scheme; the idea of putting a price on carbon. one lesson learnt from europe by korea, china, california, australia and many other parts of the world where they are starting to make climate policies concerns carbon and emissions trading, and i agree with what mr arsenis said. when they start to define their targets they ask how to do this in a cost-efficient way, and then they come to the solution of having some kind of pricing of carbon and emissions trading. that is why it is very important, not only that the member states get their act together but – i very much hope – that this parliament gets its act together on this very crucial thing. ms wils, mr liese and others said it is very important to continue the work with developing countries, small island states, and the most vulnerable countries, and of course we are doing that. we are about to send out invitations for new consultations with them, continuing the good work. it is not a coalition, it is not an alliance. it is very important to understand that it is not something very formal because that would make a lot of people wonder whether a new group in the un was being formed. it is not a formal group, but we are simply working with other ambitious countries. this is absolutely key to what we can achieve in 2015. the final two points. shale gas has been mentioned several times. i just want to make it clear that nobody at the european union or the european commission is preventing any member state from going into shale gas. the energy mix in the future, as now, will be up to each individual member state. so those who want to move forward on that can do so. there is one thing we need to understand, and that is that everyone who knows this business, this area, tells us that you can make shale gas in europe, but do not believe it will be as cheap as the energy they have in the united states because, unfortunately, we do not have areas like north dakota where there are almost no people living there. we do have shale gas deposits in other kinds of geological formations and so on and so forth. no matter how we put it, shale gas and gas can be fine as a bridging technology, but it does not change the fact that if we want to go to a low-carbon society by 2050 and follow what science tells us is necessary in climate, then that will not be enough. my last point: several members have mentioned creating alliances. mr liese said that we should reach out to mr kerry; this is already being done. i will go to washington later this month to meet with the new people in washington. we should now listen to present obama, who in his inauguration speech claimed that he wants to do more in climate in his second term than in the first. that sounds good to many of us, to europeans it sounds very good, but we also have to make sure that that also means that we will see a stronger involvement from the us in the international negotiations. but i agree with those who say that if there is any american politician who really understands this, that is mr kerry. finally, there was the point that we should remember what others are doing. that is good advice. almost 100 countries now have climate targets. brazil, china, many big economies, many of our competitors are actually starting work. they are not doing enough, they should do even more, and that is what the difficult talks up to 2015 will be about for all of us. it would be a pity now to stand idly by when other big economies get the message and actually start to move forward, and when the world bank, and the imf leaders can stand in davos and say you ‘cannot address the economic challenges of this century unless you understand climate change and do something about it’. we should take that message in europe not as a bad sign but as a very good sign that some of the things we have been advocating are starting to be listened to in other headquarters. therefore, we should not give in to short-term thinking. our strength in europe has normally been that we can think beyond the short term. if there is anything that we need in climate change it is the ability to do that, and to incorporate our economic issues, growth needs and our job needs into our intelligent climate policies. that is the trinity that we need to address in europe and we need to be better at handling it so that we can improve in all three areas at once.
member of the commission. − mr president, the european legal culture is made up of a diversity of legal systems that are progressively brought closer to each other. europe’s legal diversity is a source of strength. article 67 of the treaty makes it clear that respect for the different legal systems and traditions of the member states underpins the union’s area of justice. through more cooperation between legal practitioners in the different member states, exchanges of experience and judicial training, we can promote the rule of law and strengthen the mutual trust between these different legal systems. we can indeed bring these different legal cultures together without eliminating the differences. european judicial training is a crucial tool to achieve that goal. legal practitioners must have a good knowledge of eu law. they must have trust in the different national judicial systems in order to apply european law correctly all over the european union. as the eu’s legal order interacts with diverse national legal traditions and systems often built upon continual layers of history, this requires first of all well-informed and well-trained legal practitioners. in september 2011, the commission set out its objective to enable half of the legal practitioners in the european union to participate in european judicial training activities by 2020. this involves the use of all available resources at local, national and european level. since 2011 the commission has been taking action with national authorities and with the support of the european networks such as the european judicial training network, the european law academy and the european law institute. the commission values the fact that parliament shares the commission’s vision and ambition on this subject. as regards the specific questions i would like to highlight the following. first, regarding the length of time taken to award contracts. there have not been any unusual delays in the implementation of the pilot project. the pilot project was published on time, applicants were given the usual deadlines and three out of the four contracts are in the process of being signed this month. as regards the second question on how account is taken of the conference of coordinators of european law, representatives of the commission were present at the conference in the hague last september. we welcomed the debate on having eu law court coordinators within the national court structure. however, we need to keep in mind that organisation of the judiciaries is a matter for member states alone. we should also avoid duplication of tasks with the established european judicial networks in civil and commercial as well as in criminal matters. regarding the third question about investment in modern tools, the commission continues to develop the european e-justice portal to give citizens and legal practitioners access to information. the judicial training section of the portal is being developed. it will serve as a single entry point for trainers and legal practitioners looking for training content. the first training content will be available online in a matter of weeks. the commission is also willing to support financially the development of high quality e-learning. the development of two training models on eu cross-border family law including e-learning courses has been tendered as part of a pilot project in 2012. e-learning courses may be helpful in certain areas but they cannot replace personal contacts between legal practitioners from different jurisdictions. personal contact is necessary to build mutual trust and to exchange ideas. furthermore, e-learning tools are only one possible way of addressing the time restrictions preventing legal professionals from participating more often in exchanges and specific training. however, time restrictions would have less impact if continuous training were to be duly taken into account by the member states when calculating the workload of judges and prosecutors. regarding the fourth question on broadening the scope, the commission communication of september 2011 makes it clear that it intends to target training activities at all legal practitioners. this includes judges, prosecutors, court staff, lawyers and other legal professions. the commission also supports future knowledge partnerships between universities, judicial schools and bar associations to develop innovative training solutions. however, the eu has no competence to regulate the curriculum and teaching of law at european universities.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this question also has its origin in an initiative which i had the honour of promoting with mr berlinguer. it was the initiative of a pilot project presented in 2011 and then incorporated into the 2012 budget. a pilot project on european judicial training which was welcomed by parliament and the commission and which therefore followed the steps which the commissioner has now described to us. the project was innovative, and i am proud of it, in its attempt to transform and introduce the concept of legal training, going beyond leaken's approach of judicial training for judges only, to begin to talk about the category of legal professions - lawyers, judges, prosecutors - together expressing an institutional chain of law that must remain united. the intention when we presented that pilot project was to give a start to the implementation of the common area of freedom, justice and security, which we have interpreted, trying to remain consistent in that initiative of ours with the objectives of the stockholm protocol. we have imagined that if we do not set in motion a training process which overcomes the distances and differences between countries, but in a non-invasive and non-intrusive way so as not to affect - as the commissioner has said - national autonomy and sovereignty in this area, we will not have made a real contribution to meeting the needs of implementing the european construction. today, i am urging you not only because i believe that time is of the essence, but also because at a time of european union weakness the guarantee of rights that only mutual trust and uniformity can guarantee ...
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. at a time when there is a growing phenomenon of imitation of certified quality products, the news of the proposal for a regulation authorizing the traditional terms 'chateau' and 'clos' for wines produced in the united states and marketed in the community is particularly worrying and surprising. there is no doubt, commissioner, that we are faced with commercial practices which risk, on the one hand, misleading final consumers when they buy them and, on the other, causing negative economic and social consequences for operators in the quality production chains. the risk is now that of chateau and clos wines, but as we have stressed many times in recent years, it is putting the whole european heritage of certified quality products at risk. i remember the fake prosecco, the fake riot, the fake champagne. we have food excellence which the whole world envies, which has an extraordinary economic and social impact and which we must therefore defend with all our strength. as regards wine, the 2006 us-europe trade agreement was so badly disregarded that in 2009 authorisations for exports of us wines using the previously recalled traditional terms were suspended. yet our legislation is without doubt the most advanced in the world in terms of food safety and transparency. the provisions for the wine market contained in community regulation (ec) no 479/2008 and more generally the rules on the quality package, for which we have recently fought here in committee and in this house, are evidence of the efforts we have made against imitations and counterfeits of certified european products. these efforts risk being frustrated by the possibility for producers outside the system of community rules to translate the lesser constraints to which they are subject into greater competitive advantages. that is why, mr president, we are here today to ask the commission, once again, to ensure that a more transparent market is created, based on the concept of the so-called reciprocity of trade rules, in order to promote the prospect of greater international convergence of the quality standards applied by the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the fight against the importation of counterfeit products from third countries has been waged here in parliament for some time, but so far the results have been rather poor. i want to present a recent case that has made headlines in my country, italy. on the internet, it is possible for anyone to buy a kit for making wine from chemical powders and additives. jimmi ghione denounced him on the "striscia la notizia" programme, one of the most watched investigative programmes in italy. these are the kits that are sold and that you can buy on the internet: they're boxes of sulphites, additives, yeast and must to ferment, all in packs. those who buy this type of product make their own wine at home with this filth, with labels bearing the trademarks of famous appellations of origin such as chianti, barolo, nero d'avola, sangiovese, montepulciano and others. look, the products that are added are like sugar packets and this is the "strice the news" programme that broadcast the programme, but i will send you the video tomorrow, commissioner. the agreement on the use of traditional names for wines from the united states, among other things, provides for the restriction of the use of certain semi-generic names. i want to remind you that among these are chianti, primitivo di manduria and marsala. this is an unacceptable parameter, which has led to counterfeiting which is harmful to competition, and i believe that this agreement no longer has any reason to exist. these wines, these counterfeit kits, are made in the united states, too. mr commissioner, think about this and realize: if this is wine, i'm santa claus.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european union has a great interest in a functioning world trade in wine. this is particularly true of wine. i would remind you that 23 million hectolitres of wine are exported from europe, while we import only about half of it, 13 million hectolitres. but trade needs rules, and trade needs fairness above all. fairness for traders, but also fairness for consumers. consumers have a right to know what is in a product and they have a right to have a term like 'château' protected. that is why concessions to the united states of america can only be made if the united states of america does its homework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. whether it's prosecco, champagne, or chianti: if a wine like this is sold in america, it should have prosecco, chianti and champagne in it and nothing else. we export 5.2 million hectolitres of wine to the united states of america every year. we import from the united states of america almost exactly half of it every year. so we have a great interest in trade with the united states of america working. but fairly and on all conceivable terms.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking my shadow colleagues who have helped me to prepare this report, let me briefly outline the main points of the report. firstly, and this is the reason for the only amendment in the report, when the report was first drafted we wanted the european investment bank to be able to count on a capital increase. the decision of the 27 member states a few weeks ago to approve this eur 10 billion increase in the capital of the eib was therefore welcomed. this capital increase is essential for the maintenance of the triple a, given that the majority of investors in eib securities require it. the eib is expected to make available up to eur 60 billion more for eib lending in the period 2013-2015, for a total of eur 180 billion of investment, thanks to leverage. to ensure the best possible functioning of the eib's leverage, new financial instruments based on the effective combination of the resources of the eu budget and the eib's high lending capacity must also be designed and implemented rapidly. the pilot phase of project bonds, which has just started, will be followed up with interest and will give us the opportunity to see the first results at the end of 2013. to enable the development of new joint eu-eib financial instruments, a new framework must be established which clearly allocates tasks between the institutions involved, ensures transparency and flexibility and draws resources from the public and private sectors. in addition, it is essential to avoid excessive bureaucratic constraints for the institutions managing the funds, the intermediaries and the final beneficiaries. in short, the eib must be able, also by clearly defining its objectives and control criteria, to preserve its independence in the selection of projects in order to ensure a sustainable use of its resources. the eib must also ensure greater transparency by providing more data on the loans granted and on controls, in particular on beneficiaries and intermediaries in third countries. the eib's consultancy activities were also highlighted. sometimes the problem is not access to finance but the lack of real managerial and administrative capacity of the project beneficiaries, which slows down development. the eib should continue to focus on smes within the european union, but should further develop microfinance instruments and expand the range of credit institutions involved in sme financing, such as non-conventional financial intermediaries. at a time of welfare cuts, the report encourages the eib to support the social economy, which is already contributing to welfare and job creation through tailor-made loans and guarantee schemes that are as flexible as possible in terms of size and rules, also taking into account possible synergies with the social business initiative. in addition, new instruments should be developed for the cultural, creative and training sectors, which have been hit hard by the financial crisis. the eib is in the difficult position of having to make do in those areas where the cuts imposed on the national governments by tightened budgetary discipline, but also by the european union itself, have been felt the most, if we consider the tough debate on the multiannual financial framework in these days. the report also mentions the european investment bank's investments in research and innovation, agricultural policy, energy efficiency and resources, as well as synergies with the european union for programmes such as the cap, horizon 2020 and the structural funds. outside the european union, the report focuses on investments in the mediterranean and the candidate countries. the eib is called upon to play its part by financing investment in infrastructure and small and medium-sized enterprises and by combating climate change, mainly to support the progress of political and economic reforms. the important thing is that it should also maintain its role as the union's bank in its external activities, in close coordination with the other institutions and the european external action service, and that it should focus on the areas and areas with the greatest impact, such as the enlargement and neighbourhood countries. the report also proposes that the eib should play a special role as the european bank and as a natural partner of the european community and the external action service in supporting the european union's external policy objectives.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the other day we discussed in this house the difficulties of access to credit for small and mediumsized enterprises and there was a lot of emphasis on the need for a more decisive role for the european investment bank. the same hopes are rightly expressed in the report by mr mauro, which in many respects is agreeable. however, when we talk about the eib, i cannot help referring to what i consider to be a real scandal, namely the loans it grants to turkey, a state which is obstinately refusing to recognise our equal, namely cyprus, a full member of the european union, which in recent months has also held the presidency of the union. in 2011, turkey received over eur 2 billion, much of it for local smes, while the eu allocated only 18% of its overall funding to smes. i would remind you that turkey, although it has recently slowed down, is growing much faster than all the countries of the union, many of which are even in recession. italy is the largest shareholder of the eib, together with germany, france and the united kingdom. i would therefore like our money not to end up in turkish companies, our competitors in many key sectors, especially at such a difficult time for our economy. i also use this opportunity to respond to the recent ultimatum of turkish prime minister erdogan and the answer is very clear: we believe that turkey should not, and i stress it should not, join the european union at all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the president of the eib for his presence. i have two questions. the first is a rating consideration. since the reasoning here is always based on the rating, it ends up that the eib, in order not to lose its triple a rating and not to fall in the rating, finances only certain projects in certain countries. i think that's not a good philosophy for looking for competitiveness. the second part is to understand how the project bond management is going for these two years 2012-2013. we would like to know this, because it might answer the first question about the analysis of the projects you are currently running.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will be very brief in conclusion. the commission just wants to emphasise that the current extraordinary economic and financial situation requires decisive policy action and that the eib’s activity is crucial to fight the financial and economic crisis in europe. in this difficult environment the eib has to assume its role of a policy-driven bank, to act as a counter-cyclical institution and continue to provide financing to the real economy. in the commission we are convinced that parliament will be as supportive in its assessment of the eib’s activities in the year ahead as it was of its opinion on the 2011 annual report, and i look forward to continued close and successful cooperation between the commission and the bank. there was a specific question raised by bas eickhout that i would just like to comment on, regarding the new energy policy. it goes without saying that the commission is of the view that financing of fossil fuels should be ever more limited. this is an ongoing debate, but i also think that it is fair to draw your attention to the significant increase in the eib’s projected activity in the area of climate change and what has been going on in recent years. that also goes for investments in renewables and energy efficiency. i think that this area has been given strong priority. of course that could always be improved, but it is clear that there has been much political will to try to place more emphasis on these issues and these areas.
president of the european investment bank. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am grateful for this meeting in the european parliament, and as i did last year, i shall be glad to come back next year. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. so many questions have been asked that i can only answer a few of them here. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. some questions simply cannot be answered by the bank alone. when we make a european energy policy, we make a policy together, we, the institutions of the european union: you, the commission and the council. the bank is an instrument in this, and it has opinions, and it carries them in. she's got to prove it. but we do not make the energy policy of the european union. we'd be overreacting to that. we are second to none when it comes to international financial institutions, the financial climate and investment in renewable energies and modern energy efficiency. we are second to none, to make it quite clear, when it comes to transparency on compliance questions. this was one of the main issues i took on my shoulders when i came to this bank, because we are under particular scrutiny from the public and the european institutions, including the european parliament. in this context the question of supervision is very relevant. of course it is necessary to be supervised and to be under strict control. now there's a history to it, because there's no textbook on the supervision of international financial institutions. we are an international financial institution, a bank and a political institution at the same time. this is why the bank, years ago - years before i started there - mr audy - put forward the proposal for the eib to be under the supervision of the european central bank, long before anyone would think of giving the banking supervision to the european central bank. at that time the idea was rejected. this is why we voluntarily went under the umbrella of the central bank of luxembourg. this is why we are ready to think about all kinds of new developments in this field, and we are going to see the new regulation very soon and we will be ready to be part of that european system. of course an international financial institution like ours has specifics which have to be addressed, but we are ready to be a transparent, accountable, responsible bank of the european union vis-à-vis you, vis-à-vis the european court of auditors and of course the european court of justice and of course vis-à-vis the banking supervision. in this context, the question of the bank's capital has been raised. let us understand the role of the bank correctly. since the treaty of rome, the bank's role has been to provide, in particular, long-term financing for projects in the interests of the citizens of the european union which would not otherwise be able to be financed, in compliance with the targets and objectives set by the treaty and by the decisions of the european council. that is what our job is, and for that purpose the role of the bank is to mobilize money on the international capital markets. what we lend to our clients is not these ten billion additional euros which we have just got from the member states; it is the money that we raise on the international capital markets. last year it was eur 70 billion, this year much more. that means we need the trust and confidence of the participants in the international capital markets. triple-a is not a fetish, it is not an objective in itself but it is one of the keys for gaining and retaining the confidence of the participants in the international capital markets. this is why we consider triple-a very important, and this is why we consider the quality of our projects decisive. if we stint on the quality of a project then the business model of this bank is at risk, and this is what we're not going to do. credit bonds are currently a very important initiative. we are addressing them with enthusiasm and resolve. but let us be clear: they are one more instrument in the toolbox which we, you, the commission and the council have. this new instrument must stand the test of the market, because it is private investors at the end of the day who we want to lure into this business and they need to be convinced by the quality of the projects. this is true for the project bond initiative, finance projects for ppps, and all other kinds of instruments that we use. we are doing the very best at the bank in order to make this new instrument a success. on smes: at the outset, smes were not the bank's core idea. but we have seen that with the withdrawal and the deleveraging of many banks in the member states in large parts of europe, it is necessary to provide smes with access to finance. this is what we are doing, in particular with huge amounts provided to greece last year. it was difficult to negotiate that in greece under political circumstances which were not very easy at the beginning of last year. we have been very successful in providing this. we are ready to expand this, and we have also invented a couple of new instruments particularly for greece, because trade finance in greece is part of our business now, although 50 years ago nobody at the european investment bank would have even considered this. we are flexible in this respect. on micro-finance and inclusive banking: we need to have a separate talk about this. over the course of the bank's history it has not been part of our core business, but for a public bank which serves the objectives of the european union, it is important to address these issues. that is what we are trying to do both in micro-finance and so in inclusive banking. let me conclude by saying that we are now awaiting the decisions of the european council. we do not know what is going to happen today and tomorrow. we hope that we are getting a clear picture. the connecting europe facility is extremely important to us because we will be key in leveraging the funds that the commission will be able to provide with our loans over the next seven years. this is a hell of an opportunity for europe to address these issues together, because we definitely need incredible amounts of private money for the financing of the interest structure in europe, and not just for old-fashioned roads, not just for power lines but also for information technology in europe. if one day you still want to use your ipad for working on the train, then you had better make sure that we don't forget the infrastructure for the information technology of this decade.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that two important points can be drawn from the speech by mr hoyer and the comments made by the other speakers. the first is that the delay in the member states' financing of the capital increase is also a further proof of the most incredible of contradictions. everyone recognizes that community instruments - and i believe that the european investment bank is an instrument of community logic - are by far a useful driving force for european recovery, but at the same time, when it comes to contributing to this driving force, everyone slows down because they defend position rentals which, moreover, have made less in their application in their own member states. the second aspect is, i think, even more interesting. we are faced with a profound political contradiction. we often think of politics as a fight that ends with the death of the opponent and sometimes as a race in which the first to arrive dictates the conditions to the others. in this context, through the instrument of the european investment bank, we can understand that there are times when politics is like consulting a sick person at his bedside: the winner is the one who comes up with the best recipe for saving that patient's life. we know for a fact that the european investment bank is one of the best instruments for helping to heal the seriously ill economy of our europe. i believe that we must all work to ensure that it has the best conditions, the strongest support from parliament and the greatest awareness from the member states to be able to achieve the objectives affecting the real economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the objectives of the european parliament is to protect minorities. i believe that there is a minority in this parliament, the smokers. we would like to have a smoking area rather than look like a ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report in question is favourable to us because better ageing brings benefits to the citizen and less cost to the public health system. in particular, all early diagnosis and prevention activities from birth are essential to reduce the negative impacts of diseases and pathologies. the elderly population, which often lives in isolated settings, such as mountain areas or small towns, must have the same opportunities as those living in large urban centres. distance from hospitals or social care centres must be compensated by better home care and e-health services. there is a clear need to promote initiatives to help the elderly with disabilities to continue to live their lives to the full. in this context, it is important to recall the need to regulate at european level the essential levels of assistance for disabled people. i regret that the rapporteur, who is completely unaware of the measure in question, has given immigration a beneficial and indispensable role.
in writing. − demographic change is posing a number of challenges to the european union, including the gradual increase in the population over 65: more than 87 million people. it is important to encourage synergy between public institutions at european, national and territorial level to promote measures that enable healthy ageing for all. prevention and information, along with access to quality healthcare, are essential elements in enabling older people to remain as independent and healthy as possible. active ageing must be a priority for all member states and it is necessary to ensure that older people can play an active role in society, for example by staying longer in the labour market and avoiding social exclusion.
in writing. - i supported the report by mrs liotard on the european innovation partnership in the field of active and healthy ageing. the demographic transition will lead to 35% of the european population being over 60 by 2050, with 80% of the population concentrated in urban areas. the aim is to create living environments that ensure good ageing and good health, not only in terms of disease-free living but also in terms of physical, mental and social well-being. i believe that the involvement of regional and local policy-makers in decision-making processes is essential to the achievement of these objectives.
in writing. − the ageing of the eu population is proceeding rapidly and is an issue to which particular attention should be paid. by 2060, the population aged over 65 will have risen from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million, with a birth rate that is increasing but decreasing. these figures provide the tools and the keys to legislative measures and choices to innovate best practices aimed at innovation in active and healthy ageing. moreover, this report places a strong emphasis on the close relationship between active ageing and the environment and the social and urban context in which it matures, an essential condition to be taken into account when adopting such measures.
in writing. - i welcome the report in question because better ageing brings benefits to citizens and less cost to the public health system. in particular, all early diagnosis and prevention activities from birth are essential to reduce the negative impacts of diseases and pathologies. proper and non-invasive information campaigns, anti-smoking, anti-obesity, promotion of physical activity and better eating habits can lead to an extension of healthy life. the elderly population, which often lives in isolated settings, such as mountain areas or small towns, must have the same opportunities as those living in large urban centres. distance from hospitals or social care centres must be compensated by better home care and e-health services. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i am sorry that the rapporteur, who is completely unaware of the measure in question, is giving immigration a beneficial and indispensable role.
in writing. - i agree with the motion for a resolution by parliament on innovation in active ageing and good health. the elderly are the fastest growing age group in europe and infrastructure, services and tools to respond to this social transition need to be developed as quickly as possible. the european union is undergoing an unprecedented demographic transition. its population is aging rapidly, with the number of people over 65 years old rising from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million by 2060. moreover, while in 2010 the population aged over 60 was 20%, by 2050 it will reach at least 35%. i am convinced that a clear and unambiguous strategy - with social objectives that allow the role of older people and the value of their experience and contribution to society and the economy to be formally promoted and recognised, eliminating any stigmatisation and discrimination - is a necessary and indispensable prerequisite for the eu.
in writing. the report by mrs hohlmeier analyses parliament's resolution on the general guidelines for the 2014 budgetary procedure. the text provides guidelines indicating areas where the quality of spending could still be improved and where substantial budgetary savings could be achieved. the committee also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations under the treaty. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the guidelines just voted provide for a commitment by the european parliament and the other institutions to freeze administrative and operating expenditure, showing awareness of the difficult economic and budgetary situation of the member states, without, however, compromising the quality of the institutions' activities, compliance with legal obligations and the imperative to invest in development. as the european parliament, we intend to continue in the direction already taken with the last budgets, also foreseeing for 2014 a reduction in real terms of the budget of the european parliament, through a series of measures aimed at achieving greater efficiency, without compromising legislative excellence and the quality of working conditions. in particular, some cuts were made in budget lines for members' travel, a reduction in the duration and number of missions, increased use of videoconferencing and optimisation of translation and interpretation services. as for the other institutions, we are aware of the limited room for manoeuvre they enjoy in this year's budget, but we believe that the resources allocated are in most cases sufficient to allow the proper and effective execution of their activities.
in writing. the eu budget represents only 2% of total european public expenditure. however, the european institutions must demonstrate that this budget is able to add value to national public spending by initiating, supporting and complementing investment in those policies which are the basis of the recipe for restarting growth. austerity is necessary for the administrative expenditure of the european institutions. the structural and organisational reforms aimed at achieving greater efficiency must be pursued. the increased cooperation between the institutions to optimise costs, the freezing of all members' allowances at 2011 levels and the suspension of the indexation of staff mission allowances are concrete examples of the efforts made. i think that continuing along this rigorous line is a test of credibility.
in writing. - i am in full agreement with the freezing of the european institutions' expenditure, although i would have preferred a reduction. however, care must also be taken in this area not to make indiscriminate cuts, otherwise the work of important bodies, with the european parliament at the forefront, may be affected. in recent years we have always followed this trend, namely no increase in administrative expenditure, with reductions where possible. but it is useless to continue to refuse to take seriously what is the real waste of the european parliament, namely this strasbourg seat. the french president, françois hollande, also said yesterday in this house that strasbourg is untouchable, making it a supreme symbol of european history. it is an attitude which is perhaps understandable for the french, but it is far from the european spirit which he himself has evoked. if we really want to improve this european union and give it a future, we must start with the obvious critical points, and the question of the double, or even triple, seat of parliament is one of them, and must therefore be tackled as soon as possible. i hope therefore that the next italian president-in-office will bring the matter to the european table to try to resolve this intolerable situation.
in writing. − to date, no agreement has been reached on the new multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the european parliament and all the institutions of the european union should, however, continue to exercise the highest degree of responsibility, control and rigor in budgetary matters. the vote therefore states that the institutions should continue to limit or freeze administrative expenditure, showing solidarity with the difficult economic and budgetary situation of the member states, without compromising the quality of the institutions' essential activities, compliance with legal obligations and the imperative to invest in development. in addition, the institutions are urged to strengthen cooperation with each other in order to share best practice where possible and where justified, and to identify possible savings through the mutualisation and sharing of human and technical resources, for example in the areas of information technology, translation, interpretation and transport services and possibly also in other areas.
in writing. the text voted today supports the limitation or freezing of the administrative budgets of the institutions, which are called upon to cooperate more closely with each other. while stressing the need for reforms, it is worth recalling that legislative excellence must be safeguarded and the institutions' room for manoeuvre guaranteed, which excessive cuts would jeopardise.
in writing. the european commission proposes a new definition of 'corporate social responsibility' recognised as the 'responsibility of enterprises for their impact on society'. this new definition means that companies must have a process in place in their core and commercial strategy which takes into account social, environmental and ethical issues, human rights and consumer demands. this report recognises the primary role of enterprises in defining and implementing actions in support of csr. in my view, businesses can contribute to the development of a social market economy and to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy by ensuring job creation and facilitating economic recovery. i welcome the effort to strike a balance between the positions expressed by the commission in its strategy in support of corporate social responsibility and a more favourable approach towards european enterprises. in this respect, i share the rapporteur's firm opposition to the adoption of specific performance indicators which would risk leading to additional bureaucratic burdens and costs for european companies, thus penalising them in the arena of international competition.
in writing. − the report by mr baldassarre develops parliament's position on the renewed eu strategy for 2011-2014 on corporate social responsibility (csr), defined as 'the responsibility of companies for their impact on society'. the aim of the text is to ensure that companies incorporate into their core business strategy a process which integrates social, environmental and ethical issues, human rights and the demands of end consumers. the report also calls for the introduction of a european social security system for all citizens of the union. i believe that in this time of crisis european companies need short-term incentives to competitiveness and not measures which create additional costs, even if they are moderate. that is why i voted to abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the positions taken by mr baldassarre in the report on corporate social responsibility, agreeing with the new definition of csr proposed by the commission, according to which companies must have a process that manages to integrate social, environmental and ethical issues, human rights and consumer concerns into their core business strategy. this requires the development of innovative solutions such as intelligent transport and eco-efficient products. concerns remain about the actual effectiveness of specific performance indicators, such as key performance indicators (kpis), which could lead to additional bureaucratic burdens and costs for firms. in line with this position, i am turning my attention to the specific needs of smes by aiming at their greater involvement in csr, stressing the need to exclude them from any measures that may entail new costs or burdens. the overall objective is to improve transparency, self-regulation processes and the market premium for csr, while taking into account its multidimensional nature. in this respect, i am opposed to 'universalist' solutions which do not take account of the specificities of the markets and the various sectors in which firms operate.
in writing. - until now, the definition of csr has been based on a voluntary approach by individual companies. being an entrepreneur meant voluntarily going beyond simple economic logic and taking into account how one's business behaviour affects the environment and in relationships with staff, the local community, business partners, customers and institutions. the revolutionary definition of csr that we are adopting today attests to its added value as a steering wheel for competitiveness, transparency and efficiency. however, this should not entail any additional costs for the companies. we are therefore paying attention to the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of the european and italian economic fabric. they should not be excluded from doing business but rather encouraged by tax and legal incentives as they have the ambition to set social and environmental standards. we help these companies communicate better with investors and consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr baldassarre's report because i believe that csr can find new life and new fields of application as a result of the proposals made. the belief that csr practices create added value for businesses and therefore also competitive value must be increasingly disseminated and supported by adequate information and communication investments. it is desirable to involve smes in this process, which aims to make the process of communicating the commercial behaviour of enterprises more transparent. practices in the field of social responsibility should be adequately supported and their added value should be communicated to those who implement them in a virtuous manner.
in writing. - the process of globalisation has created an increasingly attentive, informed and aware society in which companies are expected to behave responsibly. i voted in favour of this because i believe that the complementarity between business and civil society is essential. the competitiveness factor is very important. in this respect, i believe it is essential to strengthen the relationship between csr and citizens by implementing strategies that are in line with the social context in which civil society lives and that enable businesses to address social and environmental challenges. another important element is transparency. progress is needed to increase the level of trust that citizens place in business by attempting to close the gap between citizens' expectations and the actual behaviour of business. smes provide the framework for these two elements. they represent 90% of the european business community. with csr embedded in smes, it would be much easier to achieve results, as they actually operate much closer to civil society. it is therefore necessary for parliament to make this process one of its future political priorities, since the results of this process are not tangible in the short term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the baldassarre report on corporate social responsibility because i share the new approach expressed in it, which aims to consider csr as the responsibility of companies for the impact of their actions on the society in which they operate. companies will therefore have to integrate social, environmental, ethical, respect for fundamental rights and consumer protection into their business activities. if this is achieved, it will result in a sustainable economic recovery. i also support the rapporteur's approach to allowing companies to calibrate the implementation of sustainable actions on the basis of their specific capabilities and needs. giving a range of flexibility to enterprises, especially smes, is essential so that csr does not result in increased administrative or financial burdens. finally, i share the view that excessive bonuses, liquidations and remuneration for managers, particularly where the company is in difficulty, are not compatible with socially responsible behaviour.
in writing. the concept of a 'social market economy' is a key point in guiding the political action of the european union. i supported the baldassarre report because it proposes a new definition of corporate social responsibility, one that is more sensitive to the impact of economic activity on individuals and society. it also wishes to underline the active role of enterprises in defining and implementing actions in this area. the report places particular emphasis on the role of small and medium-sized enterprises and suggests ways of involving them more in the csr framework; the specific situation of italy, which sees the contribution of smes as the main engine of its industrial development, can only benefit from these new provisions.
in writing. - i abstained on the baldassarre report because, while i agree in principle with the establishment of rules for corporate social responsibility, i do not agree with the inclusion of small and micro-enterprises among the target groups of possible future measures. i believe that in order to survive the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing, small and micro enterprises now need only genuine incentives to competitiveness, growth and development, and not other financial or management burdens.
in writing. − the report voted today supports the commission's commitment to international approaches and calls for eu-wide solutions to close existing governance gaps and improve transparency, while suggesting new ideas to promote corporate social responsibility. the european commission is proposing a new definition of csr, defined as the responsibility of enterprises for their impact on society, and in line with the new definition, enterprises must have a process that integrates social, environmental and ethical issues, human rights and consumer concerns in order to secure new jobs and facilitate the exit from the crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it clearly states that corporate social responsibility (csr) is indispensable to the restoration of trust in business and a sustainable economic recovery. indeed, an active awareness of social responsibility brings businesses greater social acceptance. i believe that csr policies must be respected not only by the main company but also by any subcontractors or supply chains which it may use, whether in the supply of goods, workers or services, in the eu or in a third country. we must promote a level playing field based on fair pay and decent working conditions, and guarantee trade union rights and freedoms. in particular, i support the call for csr policies to include specific measures to tackle the unlawful practice of blacklisting workers and denying them access to employment, often due to their trade union membership and activities or to their role as health and safety representatives. any enterprise that is found to be blacklisting workers or breaching human rights and labour standards should be excluded from consideration for eu grants and funding and from taking part in calls for other public procurement contracts at the eu or national level.
in writing. - i voted against mr howitt's report on corporate social responsibility (csr). although this subject has interesting implications for both workers and consumers, i do not share the approach taken by the text. the report does not provide a clear definition of csr and presents measures which, in fact, put all types of enterprises on the same level, forgetting that they constitute a heterogeneous universe. the new burdens resulting from the proposals contained in the report would inevitably fall on the shoulders of the smaller firms or those which are experiencing particularly difficult times. for all these reasons, i decided not to support the report when i voted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the argument put forward by mr howitt in the committee on employment and social affairs on the subject of corporate social responsibility, which is the voluntary integration of environmental and social considerations into business operations, the latter therefore playing a primary role in the definition and implementation of csr support actions. he is calling for a regulation with certain minimum principles and also for the need to respect international standards. while this report supports the commission's proposal to propose a new definition of csr, which is now recognised as 'corporate responsibility for their impact on society', there are some points on which i do not agree. first of all, i do not agree with the call for more widespread use of regulatory intervention on csr issues, nor do i agree with the call for a greater legislative role for public authorities. i also do not support the call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal on the disclosure of non-financial information by companies. in conclusion, i am not even a supporter of the hope that integrated forms of reporting, which therefore include both financial and non-financial information, will become the norm in the next decade.
in writing. - i have supported mr david's report. it gives a member state the means to apply to the commission for an accelerated authorization procedure to combat vat fraud where it is sudden and causes serious damage to a particular sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a rapid reaction mechanism against vat fraud. the commission is proposing to introduce into its national legislation a reverse charge system, i.e. the reverse accounting mechanism, which eliminates the deduction of vat on purchases in sectors where fraud of particular gravity and size is detected. i believe that the ordinary procedures of the vat directive can be changed to allow this, but with procedural time which i consider too long in relation to the need to combat fraud quickly. it must be borne in mind that this proposal unfortunately risks introducing accounting reversal mechanisms in a sudden manner in the individual member states. this could complicate the management of vat compliance by leading to considerable costs of changing management systems, to the detriment of companies that act in a transparent and compliant manner, without harming those that set up fraudulent mechanisms. finally, i think it is appropriate to envisage more efficient mechanisms for tax cooperation between member states.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report as a whole, although there are some points which merit further consideration. i am referring in particular to the regulatory and organisational uncertainty which the reversal of burden mechanism can generate, especially for smes which are operating properly. on the other hand, we can only welcome a proposal to combat tax evasion, which must be condemned because it penalizes all others, with very high social costs. i believe that the best way to eliminate vat fraud is through greater tax cooperation between member states, possibly leading to total harmonization of rates. it is not entirely meaningful to talk about the internal market if, for example, an e-commerce company is penalized by living in a country where the rates are higher because customers are not willing to pay the vat increased by their own country. i hope that the next step in this matter will be in that direction.
in writing. - every year there is a great deal of vat fraud within the european union, and this amounts to several billion dollars in damage to both the community budget and the member states' budgets. one of the major problems in combating this phenomenon is precisely to overcome the current procedural slowdown. the instruments proposed in this report are moving in the right direction, namely by providing for a rapid action mechanism based on the reverse charge system for vat. it is also a measure which is applied at the discretion of the member states and which therefore also fully respects the principle of subsidiarity. of course this is only part of a larger programme which should redraw the way vat is collected and applied at european union level, because the current system is very complicated and has left too much room for fraud, with billions of dollars of damage being inflicted on all european citizens.
in writing. - vat fraud costs the union and member states' budgets several billion euros each year and also harms compliant companies that operate legally. in times of budgetary constraints and austerity, a rapid reaction mechanism can therefore be a valuable and effective tool for member states to combat tax fraud. however, as the rapporteur has pointed out, anti-fraud measures should not create additional burdens for serious and law-abiding companies, but should instead target those who have been guilty of serious fraud.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately nothing is said in this report about how the european taxpayer should be protected from the financial plunder caused by badly managed banks, which taxpayers must then repair on the public accounts. we have a striking case in my country, italy, the shameful case of monte dei paschi in siena, the bank singled out in its day by the great poet ezra pound as the heir to that struggle against usury. today, a scandal has been created by the exorbitant purchase of banca antonveneta, which has had disastrous consequences, with damages of perhaps tens of billions. but who was he supposed to be watching? well, the bank of italy. and who was the governor of the bank of italy at the time? a certain mr mario draghi, the very person to whom the commission and the ecb would like to entrust european banking supervision today. well, there's a lot to think about in these matters, there's a lot to think about.
in writing. − the annual growth survey is the first meeting of the european semester, which sets out the priority areas in which member states are called upon to act in the months ahead. i voted against the report because it would have been desirable to adopt a document more geared to action for growth and employment rather than to policies of austerity. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one. it is time for eu countries to make a real commitment to cutting waste and rationalising spending and, above all, to focus available resources and policies on real and concrete measures to boost the economy.
in writing. - i did not support the ferreira report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: the commission shall submit to the european parliament and to the council a report on the implementation of this decision. the text is full of criticism of member states failing to adapt to the policies agreed at european level to deal with the crisis, but it has amended all the passages that were critical of the effectiveness and the way the eu's austerity measures are being implemented.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain on mrs ferreira's report on the prospects for the european semester because the final result we reached after the vote on the amendments was unfortunately not up to the expectations and pressing needs. the calls for the member states to adopt a more moderate and prudent spending policy, seeking to limit current expenditure, are certainly to be welcomed. however, alongside these austerity and austerity measures, there should also be strong and clear support for policies aimed at fostering and stimulating growth, for example by providing for greater flexibility over the constraints of the stability pact, and also by excluding from these all investments that provide for a financial return in the medium and long-term economic cycle. it would have been equally appropriate to have taken a clear and firm stand in favour of the creation of a redemption fund to relieve at least part of the crushing burden of public debt on the economies of the member states. i feel that the text presented is not sufficiently ambitious and therefore i cannot give my support.
in writing. − the debt situation of several eu member states and the continuing economic crisis require serious reflection on the types of intervention that the european institutions can and must put in place to promote growth and development. improving national budgets, with a view to promoting effective and sustainable budgetary policies, is one of the virtuous paths to follow. however, fiscal austerity and balance of payments accuracy, if not accompanied by adequate growth policies, risk sliding several member states into recession and delaying the moment of recovery. the negotiations for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework have just begun and, despite the cuts requested by some national governments, there is a need to increase expenditure for a financial year in which some 96% of the money is returned to the member states in the form of investments.
in writing. - i did not support the fontagné report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: the commission has published a report on the employment and social aspects of the annual growth analysis for 2013. i consider this text to be incomplete and weak. on the one hand, it fully shares the principle underlying the european semester, namely the increase in fiscal surveillance of the member states, and on the other hand it makes proposals for a solution to the crisis which are not very credible, without supporting them with any impact assessment, based on certain data, showing how such a package of measures can lead to an exit from the economic and employment stagnation. the report also fails to analyse, or even to assess, the responsibility of phenomena such as relocation and the excessive international opening up of the single market for the continuation of the crisis we are experiencing.
in writing. - statistical figures and reports are alarming. in italy, the unemployment rate in december reached 11.2% while the inactive persons accounted for 36.4% of the total. i would like to draw your attention to this last fact. the economic loss due to the posting of the workforce creates an annual loss of eur 153 million, which corresponds to 1.2% of european gdp. five years after the start of the crisis, we have reached the point where it is preferable to live with inactivity rather than with precarious, low-paid and uninsured work. it is our responsibility to address this situation of extreme vulnerability, to combat public (and market) mistrust, and to work towards a new balance. we must not stop at a debate which is limited to the contention between those who want more state and those who want less. economic policies must put citizens back at the centre of the choices. we don't have a magic wand, and there are no "miracle" solutions. a structural plan with targeted interventions for job creation, tax reforms and employment incentives is needed. the possibility of facilitating access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises should be provided. finally, the employment potential of growth sectors such as the green economy must be exploited.
in writing. - unfortunately, the employment situation in europe has worsened and the forecasts for this year are negative. i voted in favour of this because i believe it is essential for the council to include the issue of youth employment among the priorities of the 2013 programme. strategies must be developed to provide employment opportunities for young people who decide not to continue their studies. this requires close cooperation between the member states and the social partners to create employment or training solutions after a maximum of four months of unemployment or the end of the study cycle. in addition, recent years have seen a diversification of the labour market, which is increasingly oriented towards new sectors such as the green economy and healthcare. synergy between the education and vocational training sectors is needed to create young professionals with the skills to cope with changes in the labour market. finally, we must encourage greater participation in the world of work, especially for the vulnerable and disadvantaged, including the young and the elderly, who unfortunately have serious difficulties in entering the labour market.
in writing. − i support this text because i believe that an effective single market is needed more than ever to boost growth, create jobs and revitalise the european economy. the single market should be completed as quickly as possible, while maintaining a careful balance between its economic and social dimensions. most of all, it is important to stress the interdependence between the single market and other horizontal policy areas, including consumer and worker protection, social rights, the environment and sustainable development. concrete actions, both at member state and union level, are still needed to implement fully freedom of movement for goods, persons, services and capital in the european union. for all these reason, as was proposed by this report, i believe it is critical to strengthen the role of the single market within the european semester.
in writing. the schwab own-initiative report is a response to the european commission's communication 'better governance for the single market'. the text contains points which are shared, but it places too much emphasis and optimism on the potential of the single market, where there are still wide disparities in tax, regulatory and social treatment, which are the basis for distortions of competition, relocation and impoverishment of the territories of the most modern countries. that is why i voted to abstain.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague andreas schwab on this report. it is not only timely, comprehensive, european, concrete and detailed, but also contains some remarkable insights. i want to emphasize a political point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are faced here with a case of convinced and total europeanism, where national differences must be limited in the interests of the eu and where the european citizen as such is at the centre. in this respect, i find the references to the single market test, subsidiarity, impact assessments and key areas very useful. i think it is essential, however, to focus on transposition, implementation and enforcement. this gap between the work done here, which takes account of the circumstances in which citizens and businesses live today, and the implementation in the member states, where cultural differences, together with delays in transposition, risk damaging the quality of legislation and generating understandable euroscepticism, is no longer tolerable. it is good to claim our role, provided that europe starts growing again.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr schwab's report because i believe it takes account of the general and specific aspects of the governance of the single market, which is a vital instrument for the lives of european citizens. from the legislative to the commercial aspects, and in the areas covered by the governance of the single market, the report stresses the need for the correct and effective application of european directives linked to the single market provisions. it is clear that the single market still has areas for improvement, starting with the fields of application and a system for monitoring and controlling implementation in individual countries.
in writing. - in brussels, the full realisation of the single market is seen as the panacea for all ills, even capable of bringing about an increase of four percentage points in gdp over the next ten years. i would be very happy to see such growth, but i very much doubt that it will happen. i think this report is too unbalanced in favour of the european vision at the expense of the individual national realities. the commission is proposing to introduce a 'single market test' in individual countries, not so much to see whether community legislation could have a negative impact on the internal economies, but to assess whether there is any damage to the functioning of the single market. i think that is an inverted view of reality, partly because brussels often does not bother to assess in depth the consequences of certain decisions taken from above. this was the case for example with the bathing areas affected by the services directive, and now there is a risk that a somewhat similar situation will be repeated to the detriment of tourist guides and nurses. the commission's proposal to use regulations as much as possible in place of directives may also be the final blow, since it would remove any remaining margin for internal action.
in writing. − i supported the proposal to increase control initiatives on the implementation and enforcement of single market rules, especially within the areas identified as priority, as i believe that clearer and stricter single market governance is absolutely necessary to achieve the objectives of growth and employment. at present we are still facing problems due to the non-transposition or non-compliance with the rules mentioned above. to avoid these problems i have supported the introduction of initiatives to improve the application and implementation of the legislation, namely early coordination and severe infringement procedures, but also the monitoring of the efforts of individual member states in terms of the quality of the implementation of the single market provisions. i also recognise the need for a transparent and predictable legal framework governing the periodic assessment of the state of the single market.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it reiterates our strong support for the eu’s active participation in the work of the un human rights council. we call on the member states to co-sponsor resolutions and to participate actively in debates to facilitate an engaged relationship with the unhrc. it is important to enhance coordination between the member states in order to reach common ground on human rights issues. i believe that the establishment of the position of the eu special representative for human rights (eusr) is a step in the right direction. the special representative should work to enhance the effectiveness, coherence and visibility of the eu’s human rights policy in the context of the unhrc and to develop close cooperation with the ohchr and the special procedures. with this resolution we also express our concerns regarding the persistence of the practice of ‘bloc politics’ which continue to affect the selection of countries receiving the unhrc’s attention.
in writing. − in 2011, together with my colleague berlinguer, i tabled an amendment to the 2012 eu budget to ensure that a part of it was dedicated to the implementation of a pilot project on european legal training. our initiative was supported by the plenary of the european parliament and the european commission. the project was extremely important and also innovative in its attempt to introduce the concept of legal training for all legal professions (lawyers, magistrates, mps), thus overcoming the laeken declaration's approach of judicial training exclusively for magistrates. the aim of the pilot project is to achieve the common european area of freedom, justice and security as envisaged and indicated in the stockholm programme. i shared the european commission's emphasis on the need to combine a common judicial training pathway with respect for national autonomy and sovereignty in the field. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the pilot project and will continue to monitor the implementation of the pilot project.
in writing. - it is undeniable that, despite their diversity, the legal systems of the member states are based on shared principles and have common origins, which have subsequently become differentiated over the course of history. today, unfortunately, there is a great deal of fragmentation and a lack of mutual understanding, which can certainly cause quite a few problems in the judicial field. i find the proposal to establish a forum for european judges to discuss the most pressing issues and some recurring cases in judicial relations within the union very interesting. the increasing mobility of european countries means that disputes involving two or more countries are on the increase, and a thorough knowledge of the other's judicial system can certainly help to help, especially citizens who are faced with these difficult situations. in the field of training, an exchange of experience and a greater and more specific knowledge of european union law must certainly be encouraged, always of course in full respect of the principle of judicial sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. - the report by mr mauro acknowledges the negative state of the european economy, with excessive sovereign debts, a lack of resources to support sme investment and a stagnation of growth and employment. the report therefore suggests a more active role for the european investment bank (eib) in supporting smes and innovation in the economic fabric. the text also welcomes operations outside the community, in the mediterranean area and in countries preparing for accession, such as turkey. at a time of crisis such as the present one, i believe it is harmful to disperse the community's economic resources outside the eu and for that reason i will not be voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − i welcome the 2011 annual report of the european investment bank (eib). in particular, i agree with the decision on the eur 10 billion capital increase. the commission will be able to guarantee an additional 180 billion in investments for the period 2013-15, thanks to the leverage effect. i also believe that the eib should assess the effectiveness and sustainability of the measures taken to counter the effects of the crisis in the years prior to 2011. a factual analysis of these measures would allow appropriate adjustments to be made in the bank's future choices. finally, i believe that increasing credit capacity is increasingly necessary in order to stimulate the economy and develop the regions. this function should once again be at the top of the priorities the eu intends to adopt to start the path out of the crisis.
member of the commission. − mr president, just for the record, i would say to mr czarnecki that neither i nor my private office have asked for any debate here to be shortened because of my logistics. i have a plane to catch four hours from now. but i see that mr czarnecki has left the chamber so i will not go deeper into that. the recent tragic spate of killings of aid workers in pakistan is a reminder of the alarming rise in violent extremism in parts of pakistan, particularly the north-west. the focus for terrorist attacks has been religious minorities and female workers, people promoting education and health, and schools, especially girls’ schools. the european commission will express its sincere condolences to the families of the victims. pakistan faces enormous security challenges in its frontier areas with afghanistan, as well as the need to re-establish civil authority following insurgencies in the tribal areas. although no group has claimed responsibility for the killings of the aid workers, it is suspected that the pakistani taliban or allied extremist groups are behind the attacks. it is expected that violence will increase with the upcoming elections in the country. aid workers are at the forefront of working with the most vulnerable in society, as we have heard today, and their situation is of particular concern. extra security and precautions will be needed to protect them. in addition, aid work has been hampered by suspicions of links with intelligence agencies, following the use of a vaccination campaign to help locate osama bin laden. foreign staff of aid agencies in pakistan report increased restrictions on their work. nevertheless, large numbers of pakistanis continue to rely on the help of aid workers in providing them with education, health and nutrition, following displacement owing to conflict and floods. it is in the interests of the european union as well as the stability of the wider region to do as much as possible to support the vast majority of pakistanis who reject extremist violence and want to see more progress, prosperity and democracy in their region. following the adoption of the eu-pakistan engagement plan, it is expected that eu activities in support of security and counter-terrorism in pakistan will be reinforced. regular dialogues on counter-terrorism are scheduled. law enforcement and strengthening the criminal justice system, including more effective prosecutions in terrorist trials, as well as countering violent extremism, are expected to be part of the dialogue. the eu is already supporting projects intended to improve access to justice and law enforcement in pakistan. the eu applauds the courage of health and humanitarian workers in pakistan. the work to eradicate polio in the country is essential if the global goal is to be achieved. we strongly condemn recent attacks against polio workers, and would welcome all measures by the government of pakistan to ensure the safety of aid and humanitarian workers. the eu encourages the government of pakistan to take steps to enhance acceptance by the local community of the vaccination programmes by providing comprehensive information on polio and vaccination.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to go from a happy occasion like the birthday of my colleague, to whom i wish well, to one less happy. i would like to point out what happened a week ago when a group of our colleagues on a delegation were travelling to the camps in western sahara: i was only absent because at the last moment i could no longer leave. when our colleagues arrived in morocco, they were greeted by the police. their passports were confiscated and they were sent home, put on the first plane out. i think that this is not at all the treatment that members of the european parliament can expect anywhere in the world, especially in a country like morocco, with which we have friendly relations and a number of open conventions. i would therefore ask you, mr president, whether any steps have been taken in this regard and whether you intend to take action with the moroccan authorities in this regard. you 're a person who travels the world a lot: mr president, i am glad that you have recently been a guest in my country, italy, on several occasions, even though you have somewhat changed your role as president of parliament from that of the socialist group leader you were before. i would like to ask you, mr president, if you have any further comment on this very sad matter.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think it is very important that on this world women's day we have devoted a report to the countries of tunisia, egypt, libya and morocco, in which we women and men members of the european parliament wish to express our strong solidarity and political support for the women of north africa who fought and are fighting for democracy and freedom in their countries, which were hit by the impetuous wind of the arab spring two years ago, which saw them play a leading role in the streets, in the media, in associations and now, in a different and also controversial but tenacious way, in the places where new constitutions, laws and the future are decided. nor can we remain silent in the face of the crimes perpetrated by the syrian regime. we've met them, we've heard them: women of different backgrounds and generations. they explained that fighting for democracy and for their rights in the new constitutions is the same for them, that by freeing women they want to free their countries from the previous dictatorships, but also from those fundamentalist currents, which would like to return them to a cultural and psychological subordination. we have been denounced the improper use of sexual violence and torture against protesters, or genital mutilation, or the repression of religious and political minorities, including copts, as in egypt, human trafficking as in libya, the lack of recognition of human and political rights, as for the saharawi by morocco, the temptation in egypt to put the sharia in the constitution as the basis of state laws. but they also told us about the successful struggle of women in tunisia for the new draft constitution, which incorporates equal rights, and the growing presence of women among university students, journalists, ngos, trade unions and parties in different countries. the debate on the principle of the autonomy of the state from religious power, not only between women and secular and religious parties, but also within the latter, is also interesting in this respect. women in these four countries are concerned about the economic and social crisis which is exacerbating political tensions, but they consider the process started by women to be irreversible. they know that the transition will be long and marked by conflict and risks, primarily those of political polarization and fundamentalism. today we know that in egypt the challenge is on the constitution after the referendum imposed by morsi and the postponement of the elections; in tunisia, president marzouki is trying to install a new technocratic government after the attacks of the last few months and has asked a woman to take over the role of minister of human rights; no agreement on the constitution is reached in libya and it is proposed to hold a consultation; in morocco, a strong concentration of power by the king continues alongside constitutional reform. but we know that without the active participation of women and their involvement in the building of institutions from below and their rights as an integral and inalienable part of human rights, there will be neither democracy nor effective and sustainable development. for this reason, the women of these countries have been and are currently engaged in rewriting the constitution and new laws, starting with the electoral one. thanks to quotas in electoral laws, in tunisia 27% of women are parliamentarians and in libya 17% - this is the first time since the country held free elections that women are elected to the libyan congress - in morocco they are 16%, in egypt just 2%, because they are at the bottom of the lists. the women's awakening is strong everywhere, and it calls for the european union's support and continued attention. i ask that the european union place respect for women's human rights, the principle of 'more for more', gender equality and the active participation of women at the negotiating table and in regional bilateral processes at the heart of its new euro-mediterranean partnership strategy and bilateral agreements with these countries. we call on the commission and the high representative to ensure that programmes and actions for women are based on the institutional, social and regional and local community levels, starting in particular with rural areas and the urban peripheries, including through microfinance, supporting the great energies of women in business, university networks and even the media. the report sets out very clearly the demands made on the european union: finally, i would also ask the union for the mediterranean to dedicate an annual session to the situation of women in the region in its parliamentary assembly. i thank the shadow rapporteurs and the chairman of the femm committee and the colleagues on the deve committee.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my thoughts today go to the women of the future, to the girls and young women who are exploited and abused without having had the time to grow up. i would like to remind you, with this speech, of one of the most appalling phenomena of modern society, that of child brides: the numbers are staggering: 70 million girls forced into marriage. of these, 23 million are even under the age of 15, millions of young people forced to endure endless torture and humiliation at the hands of abusive husbands, who are hardly condemned because they are unfortunately protected by a still too widespread feudal conception of women. early marriage is a violation of human rights and affects all aspects of a girl's life: it denies her childhood, compromises her education, limits her potential, endangers her health and increases the risk of violence and abuse to women, all rights enshrined in the millennium development goals. let's not deny these little girls the right to play. we fight and defend their dreams and their projects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, women are likely to pay the heaviest price of the economic crisis. in europe, the unemployment rate for women under 25 has reached almost 23%; in my country, it's over 41%. in addition to the gender pay gap, women often have careers in flexible, part-time, casual, atypical or informal jobs, with a serious impact on their pension contributions. this is why women are more vulnerable to poverty: the poverty rate for women is 25%, and women in employment who often opt for parttime work are 33%, compared to 5% for men. i add and conclude: the risk is that the insufficient and hard-won reconciliation objectives will be further reduced by the welfare cuts imposed by austerity.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think i can make a brief comment. the joint discussion of three very different and important subjects has, in my view, sacrificed the in-depth study of each of these subjects. it is a pity that so many issues, such as the crisis, but also the question of women in north africa, cannot be summed up in such a close debate. i would like to take up a few points to give some answers and clarifications. commissioner reding rightly mentioned the commitment of the high representative ashton and the commission in the context of the demands that must be made in the light of the 'more for more' thesis in the new euro-mediterranean negotiations, in the agreements and memoranda of understanding and also in the bilateral agreements, so that there is always a strong focus on the impact on women, on the active involvement of women and on the demand, in return for these aids, also for a greater presence and capacity to respect women's rights in the constitutions and legislation. i hope that this is a commitment that the high representative will make in two days' time also with reference to egypt in this house. i would like to point out, however, the substantial diversity of situations that have been discussed. the tunisian constitution, in its second draft, thanks to the struggle of women last august, now contains many of their demands. the situation in egypt is different, however, where a major review by the supreme court is expected after morsi's forcing of the referendum. the situations are therefore quite diverse and must be looked at very carefully. as regards female genital mutilation, i would like to point out that yes, it is true that this form still exists, but only in certain areas of egypt. we must make a great effort in this respect, including in the bilateral agreements with egypt, to eradicate it. it is true - as mrs bozkurte and other colleagues have said - that there is a risk of a setback in certain rights, but i would like to remind you that today, as the women of these countries say, we must have more confidence in the impossibility of going back, in the fact that the struggle of women, their presence in civil society and politics will make it more difficult, if europe is close to them, to return to the past in terms of their role and respect for their dignity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 march 2013. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. gender equality is a fundamental human right. in accordance with article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union: 'in all its activities, the union shall aim to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women.' in 1995, the fourth world conference on women was held in beijing, aimed at "removing all obstacles to the active participation of women in all areas of public and private life through equal participation in economic, social, cultural and political decision-making". since then, parliament has adopted three resolutions on women's rights. however, more than 15 years after the conference, gender stereotypes and inequalities are still common problems in the union today. the prevalence of negative gender stereotypes based on social prejudices and attitudes harms women and limits their opportunities in the social, economic and political spheres. the seriousness of the problem is confirmed by the high gender pay gap, which stood at 16.4% in 2010. in my view, the decisive approach to the problem requires new union policies and ad hoc legislation to combat gender stereotypes in education, the labour market and economic and political decision-making.
the next item is the report by mr antónio fernando correia de campos, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructure and repealing decision 1364/2006/ec (com(2011)0658 – c7-0371/2011 – 2011/0300(cod)) (a7-0036/2013).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr correia de campos, for the excellent work he has done on a report which sets out one of the main challenges in ensuring that european citizens have secure, sustainable and affordable energy. this new energy infrastructure package aims to further promote the integration of the energy market and to foster its increased competitiveness through the integration of renewable energies and the reduction of energy isolation. the proposal lays down the eligibility criteria for projects of common interest with a view to speeding up their implementation. i am concerned, however, to note that, following the proposed cuts in the new multiannual financial framework, it will be the task of the connecting europe facility to define the funding modalities and priorities for projects of common interest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur and the commissioner have already spoken about the importance of networks. i think we should look with optimism at the efficiency that network building can give, not just in the energy sector but in all other activities - i am thinking of light infrastructure but also heavy infrastructure - and how it can be considered as an important contribution to growth in europe. it is very important, however, that these networks be completed and even become priority investments during the crisis, in order to have an attractive territory. the only way out of this crisis is with big investments: infrastructure is by its very nature a piece of keynesian policy possible. we must also think about reducing the time taken for authorizations, because the crisis is here before us and is creating its inconveniences for millions of citizens at this very moment: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. finally, the issue of resources: the commissioner was referring to project bonds but i fear there is a problem within the commission because some of his colleagues do not exactly share this view. so the resources will have to be found.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by my colleague is acceptable, except for the part concerning ets allowances and back-loading. i particularly welcome the view that all energy sources are usable and that biofuel production should be based on food and agricultural waste products. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the previous president of parliament, mr buzek, had organized meetings between the national parliaments and the european parliament to ask for and create a common energy market: it is a pity that president schulz did not follow the path traced by his predecessor. i would also like to point out that today there are unacceptable differences in costs between the member states of europe. for example, the cost of electricity for an industry in italy is 130% higher than in france or poland, 80% higher than in germany and 400% higher than in the united states. it is clear that the continuation of this situation results in unfair competition between industries within the common market. an energy-intensive industry whose costs are 30% of energy sources finds it more cost-effective to leave italy or europe and relocate.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text i have drawn up was drawn up on behalf of the committee i chair and is therefore the result of a collective effort. following the accident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan on 11 march 2011, the commission presented a communication on the risk and safety assessment of nuclear power plants in the european union on 5 october. in commemoration of the earthquake and tsunami which killed more than 19,000 people in the northeast of the country and caused a terrible nuclear disaster, japan observed a minute's silence today at 2.46 p.m. local time. today's debate is therefore particularly important and symbolic. in addition to this communication, the commission will adopt a proposal for a nuclear safety directive in 2013, which will be prepared taking into account the results of this debate and the resolution which is due to be voted on wednesday. the communication of 5 october highlights a number of key points: · the usefulness of the resistance testing procedure, even if limited in scope, in order to improve the safety culture in europe; • the importance of taking account of the dangers of radioactive waste storage; • the need to encourage close cooperation at international level, but not only in the definition of safety standards, even if they are fundamental; · the implementation of best practice; · the importance of extending the tests to the effects of aircraft impacts and emergency evacuation planning outside the site where the power plant is located; • the need to develop and promote the skills of staff and, finally, the need to achieve significant improvements in certain areas, such as procedures and the safety framework; the role, independence and means of nuclear regulatory authorities; the opening, transparency, monitoring and verification of data relating to nuclear power plants. in response to this important and much awaited communication, the itre coordinators decided at their meeting on 9 october to submit an oral question to the commission, followed by a draft resolution, in order to include the view of the parliamentary committee and then of parliament in the legislative measures to be taken in the field of nuclear safety. in this context and in the light of these considerations, we would ask the commission to clarify the following points. will the commission state to what extent it will take account of the results of nuclear stress tests in future legislative proposals, in particular in the forthcoming revision of the nuclear safety directive? since the commission intends to propose binding legislation on nuclear insurance and liability, can it give an indication of when proposals will be made and what provisions such legislation might include? what mechanisms does the commission have, or intend to propose, to monitor these safety improvements, including their sources of funding? finally, does the commission intend to take further action to strengthen national regulators and their independence, including to ensure that they implement the recommendations on regulatory procedures and frameworks as set out in the above communication?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for europe, because we are finally putting an end to the barbaric and unnecessary practice of testing cosmetics on live animals. i am personally against all forms of vivisection, but i think it is really absurd when it is done for purely aesthetic and commercial purposes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't think a newly invented shade of lipstick is worth an animal's life. today we took the first step: but now you have to check carefully so that what went out the door does not go back in the window. i am referring to imports, which come largely from china, where vivisection for cosmetic purposes is even imposed. we must ensure that products are not smuggled in which, because of their very low cost, more and more customers are attracted. it is good for consumers to know that in addition to being of poor quality and dangerous to their health, they are also the result of unjust and unjustifiable deaths.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank the two rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done, because the proposals under consideration will make it possible to improve the functioning of the single market by improving and strengthening the level of consumer protection and confidence. the odr directive will multiply the benefits and synergies of the methods available in the internal market, including an important italian best practice, namely that of conciliation between the parties. a free, voluntary and negotiated procedure based on an agreement between the consumer associations and the companies equally represented in the procedure. i therefore consider that certain provisions of the directive which aim to strengthen fairness and fairness of procedures are particularly important: the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should, in the case of a dispute between a consumer and a national of a member state, give a ruling on the legality of a decision taken by the national court.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of hypocrisy in this debate. firstly, commissioner reding still does not tell us whether he has succeeded in getting his country to finally repeal the ban on roma gentlemen parking perhaps a hundred caravans in his country, since this is allowed in our country as in others. secondly, i have not heard the word "christianophobia" in the whole debate. i think that the president, yesterday, when he opened parliament, was right to mention yet another massacre. meanwhile, there have been others from the more extreme and butchery islam. thirdly, the left which here preaches the fight against anti-semitism, racism, etc., in our country is courting a movement, the five star movement, which won the elections, whose leader and guru, beppe grillo, is accused by these international anti-racism bodies of being a racist and a full-blown anti-semite. i don't agree with this accusation, but it does pose a problem. is it a cleansing of the mind you want? where's your consistency? so much hypocrisy, since you don't even have the courage to say the word "christianophobia".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than 60 years since the barbarous slaughter in south africa and, without a doubt, concrete progress has been made. however, much remains to be done. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the countries of the former soviet union, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the countries of the former soviet union. they certainly represent a threat to the security of citizens, which is why the educational role of the family is as fundamental as that of the school. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we need more integration, we need more social cohesion. we need to protect the victims and encourage the witnesses. we need to protect minorities and certainly protect the vulnerable. this is why in many cases, when it comes to transnational crimes, there is also a need for greater police judicial cooperation based on trust between member states, there is a need for more training of judicial staff and there is a need for a culture of tolerance, integration and peace. we must protect the non-negotiable values of individual freedom.
it was not a call to order.
mr zimmer, we agree. the president will be informed.
your honor, the request is clear.
there is no discussion on hungary on the agenda.
i note that there is a request for an amendment to the agenda, which should be referred to president schulz, who will take a decision on it.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes) (debate)
the proposal is clear, but at this stage it is for the president to decide. the proposal will therefore be referred to the president, who will take a decision and inform the house.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the importance of this moment and of this vote for europe’s economic future can hardly be overstated. together with the six-pack, these two regulations bring us several steps towards a genuine economic and monetary union (emu). i want to take this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs, other meps, friends and colleagues who have tirelessly worked with the commission and with the council presidencies to make this possible, to make this happen. i would also like to thank you all for the many amendments that you have introduced, often through very resolute insistence – sometimes, i have to say, bordering on stubbornness – that have improved and strengthened in the end the proposals in the course of the legislative process. i dare to state that if the six-pack and the two-pack had been there at the introduction of the euro, we would never have suffered from a crisis of such magnitude. in any event, we would have got over the crisis much more quickly and with less social and financial costs. with the vote today, i trust we will demonstrate the benefits and the functioning of the community method. when looking in retrospect at the eu’s crisis response, and thinking of today’s vote and of the commission’s declaration on a redemption fund and eurobills, i can only wish that the council had already been persuaded and supportive of the community method in spring 2010, three years ago. i am referring to the critical ecofin meeting on 9-10 may 2010, when the commission – on europe day, in one of our crisis meetings – made a proposal to create a single european financial stability mechanism, based first on guarantees by the eu budget up to eur 60 billion, and then on joint and several guarantees beyond that. that would have presented the kind of big bazooka that has helped to tame the systemic crisis only since last year, with the ecb’s ltro interventions and omt decisions. instead, we got the far clumsier efsf, which was only last year turned into a permanent and well capitalised institution, the esm. i dare to claim that our response to the crisis would have delivered better and faster results for our citizens, if the commission’s original proposals had in spring 2010 found acceptance among the member states. but the time was not yet ripe then for decisions of such magnitude. (heckling) to make clear the commission’s intentions as regards future steps, i would like to declare the following on behalf of the commission. i ask for your patience and you will have to forgive me if i am exceptionally long, by my standards, but this is all a rather comprehensive and fragile solution. once the legislation proposed by the commission on the two-pack is adopted, the commission intends to take steps in the short-term towards a deep and genuine emu, as outlined in the blueprint. short-term steps, from 6 to 12 months, will include: in its blueprint for a deep and genuine emu, the commission considered that, in the medium-term, a redemption fund and eurobills could be possible elements of a deep and genuine emu under certain rigorous conditions. the guiding principle would be that any steps to further mutualisation of risk must go hand in hand with greater fiscal discipline and integration. the required deeper integration of financial regulation, fiscal and economic policy and corresponding instruments must be accompanied by commensurate political integration, ensuring democratic legitimacy and accountability, the commission will establish an expert group to deepen the analysis of the possible merits, risks, requirements and obstacles of partial substitution of national issuance of debt through joint issuance in the form of a redemption fund and eurobills. the group will be tasked with thoroughly assessing the possible features in terms of legal provisions, financial architecture and the necessary complementary economic and budgetary framework. democratic accountability will be a central issue to be considered,(heckling) the group will take into account the ongoing reform of the european economic and budgetary governance and assess the added value for such instruments in this context. the group will pay particular attention to recent and on-going reforms, such as the implementation of the two-pack, the esm and other relevant instruments, in its analysis the group will pay particular attention to the sustainability of public finances, to the avoidance of moral hazard, as well as to other central issues, such as financial stability, financial integration and monetary policy transmission, the members of the group will be experts in law and economics, public finances, financial markets and sovereign debt management. the group will be invited to present its final report to the commission no later than march 2014. the commission will assess the report and, if appropriate, make proposals before the end of its mandate. an exploration of further ways, within the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact, to accommodate under certain conditions, non-recurrent, public investment programmes with a proven impact on the sustainability of public finances made by the member states in the assessment of their stability and convergence programmes will be done in spring-summer 2013, in the context of the publication of the communication on the calendar of convergence towards the medium-term objective; after the decision on the next multiannual financial framework for the eu and before the end of 2013, the commission will put forward the following proposals to complement the existing framework for economic governance: measures to ensure greater ex-ante coordination of major economic reforms and the creation of a ‘convergence and competitiveness instrument’ to provide financial support for the timely implementation of structural reforms that enhance sustainable growth. (heckling)i do not decide on the procedure of this parliament.
the rules of procedure provide for the commissioner to speak, so let me conclude.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the new system, fully in line with the community method, will build on existing eu surveillance procedures. it would combine deeper integration of economic policy with financial support, thereby observing the principle that steps towards greater responsibility and economic discipline should be combined with greater solidarity. it would, in particular, aim at enhancing the capacity of a member state to absorb asymmetric shocks. this instrument would serve as the initial phase in moves towards the establishment of stronger fiscal capacity. furthermore, the commission commits to following up, in a speedy and comprehensive manner, on its action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, in particular with a view to the revision of the directives identified in the action plan and the measures and proposals announced by the commission in its 2012 package in the field of employment and social policy. this is the commission’s overall commitment. i trust that this declaration has provided sufficient clarity about the intentions of the commission, and i hope that you can vote in favour of the ‘two-pack’ just in time before this week’s european council – which will be very important for rebuilding economic confidence in europe. this would be a significant step forward in terms of our shared ambition to create a genuine european monetary union for the benefit of all our citizens. thank you for your kind attention, your support and your confidence. (loud applause)
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on transeuropean energy infrastructure because i believe that this regulation has the advantage of promoting certain fundamental aspects of european energy policy. first, it gives a strong impetus to the completion of the internal energy market and its full integration, thus contributing to the objectives of energy security and, at the same time, to those of diversification of sources of supply. we will also be able to modernise our energy networks to ensure that environmental sustainability is achieved by 2020. we naturally also want to see more development and employment for local communities, including through renewable sources and energy innovation. we also welcome the simplification of the authorization procedures. less bureaucracy very often equals higher investment productivity.
mr president, sustainable, safe and affordable energy is one of the main challenges facing the european citizens. despite the good intentions and ambitious targets set by the commission, european energy policy is making slow progress. the resources allocated at union level are scarce and only recently, with the adoption of the treaty, has the issue gained greater prominence. i therefore voted in favour of the text by mr correia de campos, which aims to speed up the completion of the internal energy market, thus achieving the objectives of the european union's energy and environmental policy.
in writing. - i supported the correia de campos report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on guidelines for transeuropean energy infrastructures (ten-t). the creation of a crossborder market and the development of its infrastructure impose onerous costs and investments which are a real barrier to entry. this requires a new regulation to overcome these obstacles and to achieve the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks, minimising waste and maximising the effectiveness of interventions.
in writing. - i congratulate mr correia de campos on his work on this report. i believe that the procedural complexities caused by the wide scope of the regulation and reflected in the opinions of five committees have added to an already thorny and demanding problem. just think about the implications of these guidelines: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution of the atmosphere by nitrates and their salts is a very good one. i particularly welcome the overall vision and the efficiency approach that is being taken to reduce the need for infrastructure as the european economy decarbonises. in this field, whose strategic importance is crucial to ensuring well-being and prosperity in the decades to come, a mistake can be very costly both in economic terms and in terms of the impact on the real economy. i therefore welcome the work done and invite my colleagues and the public to monitor the long-term prospects of this measure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr correia de campos' report because i believe that it is a step in the right direction towards renewing europe's energy policy, with particular reference to transeuropean energy infrastructures. in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the new regulation is an important initiative, as it aims to make a decisive move towards the completion of the internal energy market. it is clear that such action must be pursued through adequate modernisation and interconnection of energy networks. but not only: a trans-european energy market should ensure greater competitiveness, counter decentralised production, attract new producers and act as a driver for the economy of the future.
in writing. − energy that is at the same time sustainable, safe, guaranteed and naturally accessible in cost is one of the main challenges of the european single market. unfortunately, the resources allocated have proved insufficient to achieve this ambitious initial objective. the internal energy market remains insufficiently integrated: some geographical areas remain energy-isolated. access to diversified energy sources that can enhance energy security is not sufficient and there are no tangible benefits for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability. a new approach at european level is therefore needed: we call on europe to play a more active role in coordinating and integrating national efforts, to accelerate the completion of the internal energy market, achieving the objectives of energy and environmental policy by mobilising very significant investments, boosting economic growth and creating jobs in the european union.
in writing. − one of the most important challenges to be overcome is the ability to generate sustainable energy that is safe and affordable. unfortunately, europe has so far grown slowly in this respect, allocating insufficient resources to achieve this ambitious goal. a new approach at european level must be defined as soon as possible, one which can support the energy interdependence between the various countries, with brussels increasingly at the centre of a strong coordination of national efforts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the correia de campos report because i believe that the implementation of the regulation contained in it can help to achieve a secure, sustainable, guaranteed and economic energy system. the coordination of european energy networks is a priority to be achieved as soon as possible and energy policy is central to the european agenda. the interconnection of european energy sources is proceeding too slowly and there are still obstacles, bottlenecks and bottlenecks, as well as wide gaps between the various countries. the completion of appropriate infrastructure, such as so-called 'smart grids', is necessary to achieve a competitive cross-border energy market. this regulation should be able to speed up the completion of these infrastructures by stimulating new investments, especially private ones. projects of common interest (pcis) have been selected for implementation and the authorisation procedure has been simplified. the adoption of this report will lead to more secure and reliable energy supplies and will bring significant benefits to consumers.
in writing. − within the europe 2020 programming framework, clear targets have been set for reducing ghg emissions, increasing the consumption of renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency. this includes the prospect of a more integrated european energy system, enabling efficient trans-european energy exchange, by modernising and interconnecting energy and gas networks and by providing infrastructure for the transport of oil and carbon dioxide. a plan for securing the main energy networks and developing some of the most important ones will also be provided. the implementation of this project will be carried out through the icps (projects of common interest), which will be selected in detail according to established criteria, paying attention to the predominance of the european interest over the national or regional one. it is important that the funds allocated are distributed in a virtuous way to ensure that the projects chosen are indeed worthy of european aid. it is an ambitious project but i believe it is valuable for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal.
in writing. - i supported the auken report: the document we have voted on clearly shows what i have repeatedly said in the chambers of this parliament, namely that the european institutions are not immune to instances of maladministration, lack of transparency or outright corruption. the text denounces, for example, the involvement of the european commission in a clear case of conflict of interest. i believe that it is our duty as representatives of democracy in europe to be vigilant and to exercise in every possible way the control of transparency at any institutional level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is extremely important to give a voice to the citizens who turn to the european ombudsman, who, together with the committee on petitions and solvit, is one of the european union's bodies that ensure that citizens are heard, and who often and willingly prove to be the best observers of the correct implementation of european legislation. furthermore, i believe that the case of vienna airport is an important starting point for reflection in order to highlight the shortcomings of the current environmental impact assessment directive and to recognise the need to ensure less discretionary assessment parameters, ensuring the objectivity and impartiality of the competent authorities, avoiding conflicts of interest.
in writing. − the role of the european ombudsman is essential in resolving disputes between the european institutions and citizens. the ombudsman can help to resolve complaints more quickly. the case of the special report in question, for which i voted in favour, concerns a situation which has been going on for years at vienna airport. citizens have reported infrastructure deficiencies which are among the infringements for which the commission should intervene by sanctioning the austrian state if it does not resolve the problem in due time. the ombudsman examined the situation and identified the existing shortcomings which will be examined by the commission.
in writing. - vienna airport has been undergoing renovation and expansion since 1999. such works should generally be preceded by an environmental impact assessment (eia), which is not the procedure used in this case. this, following a complaint received by the commission, provided the possibility of an ex post eia which would be similar to an ex ante eia. the complainants, considering the procedure not to be fully legitimate, requested the intervention of the european ombudsman who, after a careful inquiry, concluded that, although the commission had not acted in a correct manner, it should nevertheless be given the confidence to continue with the environmental impact assessment, and closed the inquiry in 2009. in november 2010, the complainants again contacted the ombudsman, who launched a second inquiry, which concluded with a finding that the complaint was well founded and resulted in a draft recommendation to the commission, urging it to correct its approach to the eia and to conclude the evaluation as soon as possible. i am in favour of this.
mr president, i am speaking on both the arsenis and eickhout reports because i am in fact strongly opposed to these very similar reports, since both require greater efforts on the part of individual european states at a time of crisis such as the one we are living through. i think that's really over the top. the european union cannot continue to be the leader in environmental and climate policy: the commitments must be global and binding on all. it must be borne in mind that the european union is not self-sufficient in agricultural products: we import cereals from several non-community countries, even though we know that substances prohibited in europe are often used in their production. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that policies aimed at better management of unused land and uncultivated forests are needed. an example of poor management of italian forestry is the apennine ridge across liguria, which is completely abandoned and which, with no vegetation, is the cause of continuous fires and in which no replanting has ever taken place. i think it would be better to clear the abandoned land first than to abandon other land instead of cultivated.
no, i'm calling all the speakers on the list. we had some technical difficulties earlier, but i'm calling all the regularly registered speakers. if you have any objections, you can refer them to the bureau.
in writing. - i did not support the arsenis report on accounting standards and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use change and forestry activities. i am convinced that additional burdens on member states in relation to climate legislation are unacceptable, at least until a binding global agreement is reached within the united nations framework convention on climate change.
in writing. − we believe that accounting for land use, land use change and forestry is a key element in climate policy and can contribute to mitigation, adaptation and conservation of biodiversity, as well as to the sustainable use of natural resources. first, effective rules for accounting for greenhouse gas emissions and removals resulting from land-use activities should be established. it will be necessary to provide for the obligation to establish accounting for emissions and the resulting removals and to propose, accordingly, that drainage and re-wetting of wetlands be considered as a category of activity for which accounting should be established. in order to ensure harmonisation with a view to further integration into the union's emission reduction commitments and with current eu legislation, all member states should be required to account for carbon stocks using the same carbon and greenhouse gas sinks. the commission will have the task of providing guidance and technical assistance to member states, where appropriate, and the power to make recommendations for further action, ensuring public participation and transparency as required by union legislative acts.
in writing. - i believe that we are all in favour of respecting and protecting the environment and the climate at the highest level in this house. it is good that europe is setting an example, but without this being a case of imposing excessive and difficult obligations. the climate and environmental issue is very complex and by its very nature global: the rules and principles must be set in the broadest possible context, whereas europe too often finds itself acting in isolation, as other large countries put their economic and commercial interests ahead of the protection of the planet. i am not saying that we should accept the downturn, but we must be very careful not to risk imposing rules which are too restrictive and whose effectiveness is not always demonstrable, and which can have a depressing effect on the whole european economy.
in writing. − this vote aims to re-emphasise the importance of climate policies, making a concrete contribution to mitigation, adaptation and conservation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources. the final objective should be to facilitate compliance with international obligations under the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol, ensuring full integration of these rules into the common agricultural policy and the renewable energy directive.
in writing. − the proposal provides for the establishment of effective standards for accounting for emissions and removals resulting from land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf). it provides for compliance with international and eu obligations in this field, including the kyoto protocol, ensures consistency with future and current policies on environmental issues and with the principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy. if these criteria are met and the corrections made to the draft, which include the possibility of making accounting compulsory for all carbon and greenhouse gas reservoirs related to the various categories of activities, of accounting for emissions from harvested wood products (hwp) extracted outside the union and used for energy purposes in the territory for indicative purposes, of applying the instantaneous oxidation method and at the same time providing information on the country of collection of hwp and the sustainability criteria adopted, the proposal can be an effective step forward for environmental monitoring policies and therefore meets my favourable opinion.
mr president, we have today approved the draft report on the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information on climate change at national and european union level. the objective of this proposal is to review the monitoring mechanism and to strengthen the existing system in order to ensure that the european union and its member states respect and comply with their commitments under existing international climate change agreements and implement the related requirements of the climate and energy package at european level. the agreement reached with the council after a long and complex negotiating process must, in my view, be regarded positively. by reducing the rigidities that had been created between the various positions, this agreement avoided an unjustified widening of the scope of the proposal and thus an overlap with other regulatory instruments that would have led to the creation of additional burdens, and it was possible to ensure a good level of flexibility in the perspective of future international agreements in the climate field.
accounting for land use and land use change and forestry must focus on three general objectives. first, it must promote the fulfilment of the international obligations of the member states and the european union under the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol; ensure policy coherence with union legislation on coordination and integration, including inter alia the common agricultural policy and the renewable energy directive; finally, it must ensure that accounting practices and methods comply with the principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy, not only within the member states but also between them, as members of the european union. the report by mr arsenis succeeded in meeting these principles, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
mr president, i would like to return to the monitoring and reporting mechanism of the eickhout report. i would like to stress what has already been well expressed by mr bartolozzi: as the shadow rapporteur on the document, i was able to follow all the stages of its drafting and we really managed to reach a fair point and avoid the criticisms that could have led to an extension of environmental legislation which was already very advanced, but that was not the aim of the commission and that was not the ultimate aim of the majority of members of the european parliament. i am therefore pleased that the objective has been achieved, because it was right to update the existing mechanism on the basis of the most recent international agreements signed by europe and the member states. it would not have been right to impose new burdens, risk duplication and increase bureaucracy at such a critical time. i therefore welcome the result achieved: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
in writing. - i voted against the eickhout report on the proposal for a regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information on climate change at national and eu level. this proposal goes far beyond the obligations imposed by the decisions of the un framework convention on climate change and extends further the monitoring and reporting obligations, with redundant and repetitive procedures, such as the examination of national inventories by eu officials, which seem to be created specifically to legitimize the functions of some euro-bureaucrats.
in writing. − we believe that timely, reliable and accurate greenhouse gas data are essential to verify whether the european union and its member states are on track to meet targets and to develop new, consolidated policies to tackle climate change. efforts will be needed to simplify and improve existing european standards for reporting and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions. it will therefore be necessary to strengthen the credibility of the european union itself vis-à-vis developing countries by providing transparent and comprehensive information on the type and amount of support provided. in line with the european parliament's earlier positions on the use of proceeds from the auctioning of allowances under the emissions trading system (ets), we support the position of our rapporteur that he intends to continue to keep a close eye on the current rules on the allocation of resources.
in writing. − the greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting (gmp) mechanism is a regulation that extends the control of gas emissions in accordance with the parameters of the kyoto protocol. the regulation is designed to facilitate the eu and all its member states' compliance with international co2 emission obligations and related low-carbon development strategies. the legislation on this subject thus becomes uniform in the protection of the climate and the environment and aims to develop new low-emission techniques through the exchange of information. i therefore consider the report as a whole to be a good text.
in writing. - the eickhout report, whose importance lies in the mandatory nature and improvement of monitoring and reporting procedures for greenhouse gas emissions, calls on the industrialized countries to continue their efforts to combat climate change and to involve the developing countries as well. a focal point in this report is the obligation to also report the amount of funding given to developing countries by individual member states. in fact, it is important that europe knows what the total expenditure is in this field too. the adoption of this report is a small step towards europe's long-term climate goals, including reducing emissions, and will allow europe to continue to be at the forefront of environmental protection and climate change.
in writing. − the commission has proposed some improvements to the provisions contained in decision no 280/2004/ec on the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and overall energy use, leading to the possible adoption of a regulation. the report also requires the union and the member states to comply with their reporting obligations and to ensure transparency, timeliness and comparability of the data collected and reported. they will also have to include information on the amount of energy from renewable sources and total final energy consumption in their reports. it is desirable that member states develop projects, which are well defined in terms of costs, timing and objectives to be achieved, and which fit well within the framework of the europe 2020 programming. in addition, with the aim of reducing and monitoring the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, the regulation encourages the european union to involve both industrialised and developing countries in the project in order to achieve a common and winning strategy. i therefore express my favourable opinion.
mr president, the creation of a european platform for online dispute resolution is a fundamental step towards ensuring that european citizens have the appropriate tools to resolve legal disputes quickly and effectively. the creation of this platform should, however, be seen as a first step, which will then have to be extended from disputes concerning goods and services sold online to other legal areas. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, although i think the legal framework could be even wider. i therefore hope that the commission will take steps as soon as possible to present a new legislative initiative to extend the scope of the platform.
in writing. − to promote access to quick, inexpensive and effective dispute resolution between consumers and traders, the commission has presented this package of legislative proposals to ensure that all consumers in the union can resolve their problems out of court, i.e. without having to go to court, regardless of the type of product, the way it was purchased and the eu country in which the transaction took place. the two proposed legislative instruments, the adr directive and the odr regulation, are designed to build trust in the single market and make life easier for consumers. the proposals on adr and odr aim to enhance the functioning of the digital single market, in particular by improving consumer access to compensation in the form of alternative dispute resolution and thereby strengthening consumer confidence, which is currently insufficient with regard to web-based transactions. i voted in favour of this proposal because the platform is a necessary tool to ensure consumer protection in the single market and will be free of charge and available in all the official languages of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein, which analyses the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the online resolution of consumer disputes. the aim of the legislative proposal is to establish a european platform for online dispute resolution, offering consumers and traders a single point of access to deal with out-of-court disputes relating to the sale of goods or services online with traders established in any eu member state. i believe that this instrument will strengthen the single market by reassuring both consumers and smes and by encouraging them to engage in cross-border business activities with greater confidence.
in writing. - the report by my colleague, compared with the commission's draft proposal, seems to be consistent with the determination to give practical value to the role of consultants and consumer centres, but above all with the determination to ensure that there is an effective and strict deadline for the reception of requests. the system will soon prove valuable, if well designed, especially in countries where consumer protection through civil justice systems is ineffective. i therefore vote in favour of the report. i would add, however, that i will bring this initiative to the attention of the house as an example of good european policy. i am convinced that if the european institutions were able to communicate more effectively the initiatives which, in the process of integration, give greater rights to citizens, help to improve the quality of life of people, facilitate processes of social transformation and adaptation to crisis situations, promote bureaucratization and free up energy in the productive system, perhaps the climate would be different today. a europe which is the face of a bureaucrat who adds constraints and costs to austerity, which offers no visible solutions in everyday life, such a europe is bound to feed reactions of mistrust, mistrust and ultimately rejection.
in writing. − i welcome the alternative dispute resolution system, which includes the online tool. i have supported this resolution of parliament which aims to establish a european platform for online consumer dispute resolution. the advantages of information technology must be exploited to the full, because it helps to simplify procedures and creates a uniform system for all. the aspect of improved accessibility should also be emphasised: having an effective tool at hand that allows us to use a clear model to represent the complaint from the comfort of our consumers' homes and regardless of where the seller is located, certainly strengthens the european internal market. i also agree that this platform will not only be used by consumers but also by professionals. this important system will come into force 20 days after the publication of the regulation in the official journal, so we can well hope that it will be operational very soon. i also share its publication on the your europe portal and i believe that we members of the european parliament should use all the means of communication at our disposal to promote it as much as possible in our own communities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr thun und hohenstein on the procedure for the resolution of consumer disputes online. the draft proposal seeks to establish a european platform for online dispute resolution (odr platform). it is an interactive website that provides consumers and users with a single point of access for the out-of-court settlement of certain disputes. it is a tool, in my view, which simplifies the activity of those who buy and sell online and are confronted with behaviour that is questionable or litigation-prone. in the face of a constantly changing landscape and a sector such as e-commerce, which is in full expansion, paying attention to this aspect of online commerce is also a sign of great interest for the protection of consumers and users in general.
in writing. − we strongly supported this report which aims to establish a european online dispute resolution platform, i.e. an interactive website, free of charge and available in all eu official languages, which can offer consumers and traders a single point of access for the out-of-court settlement of certain disputes. we welcome the fact that the proposed regulation applies not only to complaints from customers but also to complaints from traders. we regret that the original proposal for a regulation would only apply to disputes concerning goods or services sold online across borders, and we therefore propose a more ambitious solution: extend its scope to online disputes at national level, as it is often difficult for consumers to ascertain whether they are buying goods and services cross-border when making an online transaction. finally, to ensure that the european parliament fulfils its supervisory role for the benefit of consumers, we propose to replace by delegated acts the executive powers required by the commission in relation to (i) the functions of the platform, (ii) the modalities of cooperation between odr assistants and (iii) the modalities of the electronic complaint form.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on odr (online dispute resolution for consumers) because i strongly support the promotion of more direct and effective access to the resolution of disputes between consumers and businesses. the odr regulation is a clear instrument for simplifying the consumer's life. it will provide a direct link between businesses and consumers, who will have an online tool for resolving disputes, including cross-border disputes. i also believe that the regulation represents a breakthrough in building confidence in the european single market and an innovative and rapid tool for out-of-court dispute settlement.
in writing. - president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the text sends a strong message in the direction of protecting consumers in crossborder disputes. to resolve disputes over online sales, the regulation introduces a web platform in all eu languages, operated by the european commission and accessible on the your europe portal. the platform will offer standard complaint forms and advice to buyers on choosing the most appropriate resolution regime for their dispute. if we want the single market, we must start by unifying the rights of european consumers, while safeguarding the different linguistic identities.
in writing. − having different procedural options for dispute resolution for consumers offers the possibility of speeding up while still ensuring the dispute resolution system. the texts on online dispute resolution for consumers and regulatory resolutions make the conditions for an agreement faster and more effective both for the consumer, who has more flexibility to agree directly with the other party, and for businesses, who thus have the possibility to safeguard their interests away from potential bad publicity. the extrajudicial channels thus streamline procedures and offer a greater service to citizens who can solve a situation on their own through the use of technology. the transparency and cost savings that result from the application of such legislation are also important.
in writing. − the commission's draft proposal aims to establish a european platform for online dispute resolution (odr platform) by establishing an interactive website that can offer consumers and traders a single point of access for the out-of-court settlement of certain disputes concerning the provision of online services. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of electronic communications networks and services.
in writing. - at the strasbourg part-session we voted in favour of the report by mr gräfin von thun und hohenstein, which aims to establish a european platform for online dispute resolution (odr platform). this will be an interactive website offering consumers and traders a single point of access for the out-of-court settlement of certain disputes, for example disputes relating to the sale of goods or the provision of online services by a trader established in one member state to a consumer resident in another member state. the platform will be free of charge and available in all official languages of the european union. consumers and traders, especially smaller ones, feel insecure about cross-border e-commerce because they do not know where to turn in case of a problem. the odr will give them the confidence to buy and sell throughout the european union. this makes the odr a milestone in the relaunch of the single market.
in writing. − the creation of a free, multilingual european online dispute resolution platform should be seen as the most effective response to the specific needs of a constantly growing number of european citizens. an interactive website will provide consumers and traders with a single point of access for the out-of-court settlement of certain disputes, strengthening the means of redress currently available and ensuring that all complaints can be referred to a single body.
in writing. - i voted in favour as the purpose of this legislative proposal from the european commission is to establish a european platform for online dispute resolution which can offer consumers and economic operators a single access point (web) for the out-of-court settlement of disputes relating to the sale of goods or the provision of services online. the regulation will apply to transactions with an economic operator established in a member state of the union. this tool will be free of charge and available in all the official languages.
in writing. − the practice of e-commerce is now widespread in all eu countries, which is why it was necessary to regulate online sales, the last frontier of which would be the establishment of a european platform for online dispute resolution. the latter would make it easier for consumers and traders to settle disputes, through a mechanism whereby parties resident in two different member states could choose the appropriate adr body to deal with the matter, which would be required to take the action and to which all the necessary documentation would be sent to settle the dispute within 30 days (a deadline likely to be extended to 90 days). the project would also be more comprehensive if it were possible to extend the practice to national rather than just cross-border levels. i am in favour of this measure, which i consider to be a fundamental measure for the full protection of consumers and at the same time of professionals.
madam president, i too voted with conviction in favour of this draft legislative resolution because i think it is an important step forward for the internal market in many respects. as has been said, this will certainly increase consumer confidence, but it will also give companies the opportunity to protect their reputation in the market. this can be achieved through an out-of-court mediation system, which has the following advantages: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. as an italian, i would like to point out that the adoption of this regulation actually recognises a good practice which has been successfully tried by italian companies, namely the conciliation of interests. i really hope that it can be a system that allows us to achieve the goals we have set for ourselves.
in writing. − the launch of the single market has improved consumer protection, but in my view there are still gaps which continue to make life difficult for citizens and smes. the commission proposes a directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumers with the aim of providing a simple and low-cost method for resolving disputes relating to the sale of goods or the provision of services in the union. i welcome the directive which, once implemented, will enable every consumer resident in the union to have access to a quality body when buying goods or services at national and cross-border level from a trader established in a member state with problems. this is a situation of considerable importance, considering that consumers spend 0.4% of european gdp on such problems. in this context, decisive and timely legislative action is needed, as strengthening consumer rights is essential to relaunch the single market and stimulate growth and job creation. in addition, action at european level is needed to achieve a minimum level of harmonisation and to ensure that consumers benefit from the same level of protection.
in writing. the report by mr grech analyses the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on 'alternative dispute resolution for consumers'. the ultimate aim of the directive will be to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring a high level of consumer protection by guaranteeing access to a rapid solution of any disputes arising in connection with the purchase of goods and services throughout the european union. considering that italy has already adopted these instruments by means of legislative decree no 28 of 4 march 2010 reforming civil mediation and that these rules will not be affected in any particular way, i have decided to support the text in question.
in writing. − i support the alternative dispute resolution (adr) system, which is one of the 12 priorities in the single market act. i think it is vital to provide our european consumers with an alternative method of settling disputes which may arise with sellers outside the traditional judicial instruments. this is a faster, simpler and cheaper way - already used by some member states - but it needs to be extended at european level to ensure that it produces its positive effects within the single market. the system will be operational for both goods and services, free of charge and with a timeframe of 90 days. i agree with the obligation on sellers to inform consumers of the existence of this system and how to get in touch with it. i am sure that when this system is in place it will make life easier for european citizens and lighten the burden on our courts of endless cases which are dragging on and which could reasonably be solved by this alternative.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes, adopted here today, aims to provide a simple, useful and low-cost method for resolving disputes relating to the sale of goods or the provision of services in the european union. we believe that consumer protection has certainly improved with the launch of the single market, but there are still serious shortcomings which continue to make life difficult for citizens, consumers and smes. the lack of simple, low-cost and effective dispute resolution methods is currently a barrier to many citizens within the single market: the secondary platform for online dispute resolution, we are confident, will provide consumers and professionals with a single out-of-court access point based on the availability of quality adr bodies in the union, will relaunch the single market and will thus indirectly end up stimulating growth and job creation in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on adr (alternative dispute resolution) as i believe it is a key instrument for consumer protection and for strengthening the internal market. the adr system is also necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the odr platform for the online dispute resolution. the two systems are in fact closely interlinked and supporting them means ensuring the completion of an alternative dispute resolution process for consumers, which actually achieves one of the twelve strategic points of the single market act: to ensure the quick, cost-effective and simplified out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes. i agree with the programme of the new directive which, while building on existing schemes, aims to increase its diffusion in all member states and sets as its main objective to ensure its application to all commercial sectors.
in writing. - i wanted to strongly support this initiative, which goes hand in hand with another one we voted on today, which concerns online disputes. the purpose of this proposal is to provide an alternative, faster and cheaper means of resolving disputes relating to the sale of goods or the provision of services in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the initiation of this new procedure is purely voluntary and should be completed within a reasonable period of time, approximately 90 days, which is far from the normal timing of 'traditional' justice. this tool is very useful for cross-border and online purchases, as the other report states: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. if 20% of european citizens used this tool in 2010, which is designed to protect consumers from losses currently amounting to 0.4% of european gdp, it means that europe needs a fast and effective justice system, which can divide cases according to their relevance and can guarantee consumers certainty of judgment. the alternative dispute resolution method is a tool that can certainly bring added value, while respecting the clear distinction between roles, experience and competences of professional orders.
in writing. − the commission's proposal for a directive on alternative dispute resolution (adr) for consumer disputes aims to provide a simple, useful and low-cost method for resolving disputes relating to the sale of goods or the provision of services in the european union and once implemented the directive will enable every consumer resident in the eu to have access to a quality adr body where the purchase of goods or services at national and cross-border level by a trader established in an eu member state is affected. in addition, in terms of guidance, adrs must be simple, fast, inexpensive and not too bureaucratic. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the aim of the european commission's legislative proposal, presented in november 2011, is shared: provide a simple, useful and low-cost method for the resolution of disputes relating to the sale of goods or the provision of services in the european union. once implemented, the directive should enable any consumer resident in the union to have access to a body to settle disputes other than those before ordinary courts, where the purchase of goods or services at national and cross-border level from a trader established in an eu member state presents problems.
in writing. − the introduction of the online adr platform for the resolution of consumer-supplier disputes in e-commerce practice is a useful and effective tool for the improvement of the regulation of a practice that is now widespread. however, in order to ensure that it is used correctly, it was considered necessary to amend certain points of regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 governing this matter. it is desirable, first of all, that consumer protection and assistance in the event of a dispute be granted not only in the case of cross-border sales but also when these take place within the national territory. the ultimate aim of the directive is to remove all barriers to the proper and easy use of the platform and the services connected to it. in this respect, awareness of the existence and functionality of the platform will be increased by requiring all online service providers to inform consumers about the adr platform and the possibility of accessing it. rules are also introduced to ensure the impartiality and professionalism of adr bodies, based on the absolute transparency of their work. for these reasons i am in favour of the directive.
in writing. - i supported the tyrolean report which envisages the renewal of the cooperation relationship between the european union and the overseas countries and territories. the previous partnership was concluded in december 2001 and will expire on 31 december this year. its renewal will therefore be based on sustainable development, taking into account the geographical and social specificities of these areas. as countries rich in biodiversity and natural resources, i am sure that the benefits of the association relationship can be mutual as they will undoubtedly encourage greater cooperation in research and innovation.
in writing. the consultation report by the french member of parliament for guadeloupe should be seen in the light of the new recasting of the principles guiding the european union's cooperation with the overseas countries and territories (octs). the current overseas association decision (oda) of 2001 expires on 31 december 2013 and the renewal of that scope of association is essential for the octs. this new approach must promote their sustainable development, taking account of their specificities. i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − the regional and international context in which the overseas countries and territories (octs) operate has changed considerably since the adoption of the current association decision in 2001. today, in an increasingly globalised and rapidly changing environment, the main challenge for the octs is to steer their economies towards growth that can be reconciled with the major economic challenges facing the rest of the world. the key is to work with neighbouring countries, establishing specific and profitable trade partnerships and opening up to integration into the regional or world economy. in this sense, the european union can certainly play an important role in contributing to the growth and development of the octs.
in writing. − the overseas countries and territories (octs) are key outposts for europe, often called upon to play a part in the eu's aspirational global role in the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges and climate change. all collaborative projects must therefore be improved and their participation in the european integration process stimulated, since, with their natural advantages and the opportunities for action they offer, they can become essential pawns in the strategies of the european union and innovative contributors in the framework of international negotiations. in order to take full advantage of the trade preferences granted to the octs, measures should be developed to overcome certain specific competitive disadvantages; the european union should support the development of niche markets and value-added products and services and enhance the brand value of their specific products by supporting their promotion and labelling. on the other hand, the areas of cooperation for sustainable development could include competitiveness and refer to community programmes relating to innovation, research and enterprise. finally, we reiterate our wish for a simplified and more flexible financial instrument, particularly in view of the limited administrative and budgetary capacity of some octs.
in writing. − the overseas countries and territories (octs) are outposts and assets for europe as they are called upon to participate in the role it aspires to play on the world stage, and the eu should further help the octs to improve their supervisory and engineering capacity to enable them to respond to calls for proposals from the commission. although i do not agree with all the points, i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that support from the representatives of the union or the commission in the geographical areas of the oct would help to improve oct access to horizontal programmes.
in writing. − the overseas countries and territories are an important resource for europe in international strategies and negotiations. the octs are therefore linked to the european union by the 2001 overseas association decision (oda), which expires on 31 december 2013. the review of the same was initiated as early as 2008 and resulted in a new decision approved on 16 july 2012 by the college of commissioners. the objectives of the new octs, as already set out in the common position of february 2011, aim at improving the octs' competitiveness, reducing their weaknesses and promoting cooperation with other partners, and are intended to drive the sustainable development of the octs, with particular attention to the expansion of the market for their products. the proposal also makes reference to regional cooperation, in particular with the countries neighbouring the octs, and provides for better coordination between cooperation programmes supported by the various eu financial instruments. in view of the strategic importance of the oct, i shall vote in favour of the new proposal for a decision on overseas association.
in writing. - the rivasi report aims to fill the gaps in the implementation of directive 98/83/ec on the quality of water intended for human consumption by incorporating the requirements for monitoring radioactive substances in drinking water into special legislation adopted under the euratom treaty. i believe that the protection of public health must always be the first priority, and that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs rivasi's report because the proposal for a directive lays down requirements for the protection of public health in relation to radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. in particular, the inclusion of natural and man-made sources of radioactivity, and the different exposure groups, taking into account age, represent significant steps forward in protecting citizens and all consumers of a public and indispensable good. greater attention and stricter controls are also essential requirements for continuing the work of prevention and mitigation of the phenomenon until its disappearance.
in writing. − water is one of the main and essential sources of life and it is therefore a duty and a necessity that water intended for human consumption be as safe as possible and present the least risk to health. the report we have voted on today fills in some of the gaps in european legislation, particularly with regard to certain chemical and radioactive substances. more stringent and effective controls must be in place to ensure that the water we drink every day is pure, uncontaminated and therefore free from any risk to our health. italian households often use bottled water or new purification systems: but it must be said that the water that flows from our taps is subject to a significant number of controls and must meet very strict parameters, which make it certainly comparable or even better than commercial alternatives. in conclusion, we in europe should be assured of whatever water we choose to consume, and this is essential, because in other parts of the world water is not only scarce, but often polluted and causes enormous damage to human health.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. we all know that water contains radioactive substances. the european states are not very transparent and admit the presence of tritium, radon and other carcinogens which, even in small quantities, could have health effects. that is why we are today calling for stricter measures and stricter controls, and for the data collected by the member states to be made public in order to make all available information available to consumers. it is also necessary to impose penalties on those who pollute, by ordering those responsible to bear the costs of the clean-up.
in writing. − ensuring that all european citizens have access to safe drinking water is a priority for policies concerning human health and environmental protection. european legislation must now be updated, introducing legal certainty and consistency in the quality of drinking water, putting so-called radionuclides on the same level as all carcinogenic pollutants. after this step, the need for systematic and periodic review of radioactive substances control techniques and sampling and analysis methods in the light of scientific progress will be equally important.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on radioactive substances intended for human consumption aims to regulate health protection at european level. several member states have not yet applied the requirements for the control of tritium and the total indicative dose, although these were to be transposed by 2003. i believe that the council and the commission should also regulate the presence of other substances which are dangerous to health, since in some member states there are no adequate risk prevention policies in place. i would like to take the example of italy, where there is a law that allows the use of water containing up to 50 μg/l of total chromium as drinking water. this means that in italy it is possible to administer water containing up to 50 μg/l of hexavalent chromium, a known and potent carcinogen and mutagen. it is enough to remember that the who provides for a maximum limit of 5 μg/l of hexavalent chromium for groundwater and non-potable waters.
in writing. − water purity is one of the priorities of eu policies in the field of environmental protection and human health protection. however, there are still many regions in europe where pollution levels are high. i support mr rivasi's report, because it seeks to increase control in this area. the only european legal basis in this field is the euratom treaty, whose main control measure is the consultation procedure of the european parliament. the report calls for greater powers for the european parliament under the lisbon treaty (article 149 tfeu) to be able to draw up genuine legislative provisions in this area. they also agree to increase transparency and to inform the public about the quality and treatment of water intended for human consumption.
in writing. - the directive in question focuses on a major issue, namely exposure to certain radioactive substances through drinking water. that directive, adopted under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, updates the parametric indicators set out in part c of annex i to directive 98/83/ec and lays down rules on the monitoring of the presence of radioactive substances in drinking water. this will allow any abnormal value to be examined and its origin and possible effect on the consumer to be clarified. the latter must be kept informed at all times of what it is taking, of the areas at risk of potential radioactive contamination and of the quality of the water in the region. while natural mineral waters and medicinal waters, which are subject to specific rules laid down in directive 2009/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 on the use and marketing of mineral waters, are excluded from the scope of this directive, it remains an important element for the protection of human health, a priceless asset that is constantly defended by the european union. for that reason, i am in favour of it.
in writing. - i did not support the report by mr gauzès on the economic and budgetary surveillance of member states which are experiencing or are threatened with serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability in the euro area. i do not think that the surveillance measures which europe wants to impose on the economic policies of member states in difficulty are acceptable. the possibility for the european institutions to intervene in the budgets presented by the member states is yet another excessive interference which is the prelude to the erosion of another important national sovereign prerogative: the power of balance.
in writing. - this is a timely and necessary measure to continue to stem the crisis which continues to plague the public finances of the member states and which prevents resources, so precious at the moment, from being allocated to development. if we look at the measure from a systemic point of view, we can see how important it is to maintain the monetary system that the european union has established. unfortunately, the disconnect between the level of monetary sovereignty and the level of decision-making in fiscal policy becomes a factor of risk and stagnation: on the one hand, there is the unquestionable need for the member states to use the various levers at their disposal in a democratic system to deal with the crisis; on the other hand, there is a set of mechanisms and structures built to defend the purchasing power of money and to join efforts to better defend against financial speculation. this is where the need to balance these two powers comes in to ensure that short-term political goals and small realities do not overshadow economic policies geared to the long-term well-being of a large economy like the euro area. it is a good sign that lithuania, a recent recipient of technical assistance for its monetary system, is keen to join the euro.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr gauzès' report because i think it is a good thing that a tool for economic and budgetary surveillance has been adopted for member states which are experiencing or are likely to experience serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability in the euro area. the economic and financial crisis has for years now been seriously jeopardizing the solvency of the member states, and in a unitary economic environment - such as that of europe - the failure of a national economy would mean the failure of a project which, in addition to being economic, is also political and social. with the adoption of the six-pack and two-pack, the eu has given itself new rules of economic governance to meet the challenges ahead. however, the case of the bailout of cyprus through forced withdrawals from current accounts risks representing a mistake that was already said not to be repeated after the management of the greek economic crisis.
in writing. − the package providing for the economic and budgetary surveillance of member states in or threatened with serious difficulties and the monitoring and evaluation of budgetary programming documents for the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area (two pack) contains provisions aimed at enhancing control of the economic and budgetary policies of the member states. the aim of the text is to complement the six pack by giving the eu's control bodies the possibility to intervene with preventive instruments where states need them. in addition, member states will be required to submit annually to the council and the commission the draft budgets for the following year with the introduction of strict monitoring measures for states subject to an excessive deficit procedure. the amendments to the texts have given the commission greater powers to control national budgets, to correct excessive deficits and to monitor the national budgets of euro-area countries with serious problems of financial instability.
in writing. − the draft regulation on the strengthening of the economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability in the euro area is part of the context of the financial and sovereign debt crisis currently facing the european union. i agree that the decision-making procedure needs to be adapted to allow for a rapid reaction and that it is for the commission to take the necessary decisions, including that of subjecting a member state to the enhanced surveillance procedure; i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation on strengthening economic surveillance of those states experiencing or potentially affected by economic difficulties is added to the package on european economic governance, approved by parliament and the council in 2011 and in the context of the financial crisis which has been affecting the countries of the european union for several years now. the question of the excessive indebtedness of some european states does not describe a problem which concerns and affects only those particular countries, but which threatens the whole eurozone, through a dangerous chain effect. that is why, if there is any indication that one of them is entering a phase of financial instability, it will be appropriate to take targeted action, based on a strong and urgent monitoring which will be arranged from time to time by the commission after consulting the council, and which may also be accompanied by a legal protection system, which would involve in particular a suspension of contractual clauses relating to expiry of the term or credit events. i am in favour of this.
mr president, with this vote we have dealt a further, strong and final blow to the european economy and to the autonomy of our states. since the 1999 stability and growth pact, europe has been in a constant race to over-strictness, removing all room for manoeuvre and freedom of action. the european treaties from maastricht to lisbon, on the other hand, provide that a state retains certain growth prerogatives, for example by setting the threshold between the deficit and gdp at 3% per annum. with the agreements that have been added since then, in clear violation of the treaties, this possibility has been lost and we are therefore forced to suffer the restrictive impositions that have been dropped from above. these are measures which in a time of crisis only make the situation worse. the commission now wants to redraw the member states' approaches, perhaps following the example of the splendid intervention in greece. brussels must admit its failure to bring an already troubled country to a desperate and perhaps hopeless situation, with the risk that other states will follow suit.
in writing. - i do not support the ferreira report on the monitoring and evaluation of budgetary programming documents and the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area member states. i think that the text is pushing too far towards surveillance measures which involve excessive interference by the commission in the economic policies of the member states.
in writing. − the monitoring and evaluation of the budgetary programming documents of excessive deficits in the euro area member states are actions to be adopted and used with due caution. a policy focused on controlling national budgets is certainly necessary in a context of high deficits and rising public debt, especially for some eurozone countries. however, this monitoring and evaluation activity must not turn into a further austerity coup or an aid-oriented practice that merely temporarily postpones an insolvency problem. finally, i think it is also appropriate here to consider a virtuous economic circle which can help public finances by starting from the recovery of consumption.
in writing. − the package providing for the economic and budgetary surveillance of member states in or threatened with serious difficulties and the monitoring and evaluation of budgetary programming documents for the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area (two pack) contains provisions aimed at enhancing control of the economic and budgetary policies of the member states. the aim of the text is to complement the six pack by giving the eu's control bodies the possibility to intervene with preventive instruments where states need them. in addition, member states will be required to submit annually to the council and the commission the draft budgets for the following year with the introduction of strict monitoring measures for states subject to an excessive deficit procedure. the amendments to the texts have given the commission greater powers to control national budgets, to correct excessive deficits and to monitor the national budgets of euro-area countries with serious problems of financial instability.
in writing. − having regard to the formal approval by the european parliament and the council of the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area and agreeing that eu budgetary policy must be fully aligned with the new strategy for growth and jobs, the europe 2020 strategy, which is also intended to help overcome the eu crisis, i voted in favour of the proposal in order to move the eu economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
in writing. − in the context of the pressing financial crisis affecting the european union, many initiatives are being taken to halt the serious consequences that are and will be caused by it and to stem the effects that can still be avoided. these include the set of measures provided for in the economic governance legislative package approved in 2011, which provides for a detailed budgetary control procedure for all countries that are in financial conditions considered potentially dangerous for the entire european union. in addition to these preventive and control measures, the proposal for a regulation introduces a synchronised monitoring initiative of budgetary policies and a strengthened surveillance procedure for those countries subject to an excessive deficit procedure. all these provisions must at the same time respect the community's objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, linked to responsible and sustainable economic growth. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. the report analyses the proposal for a regulation on european venture capital funds, i.e. financing for activities that are about to be launched on the market. at present, firms rely mainly on the banking system for financing, and its limitations are becoming increasingly apparent, especially during the crisis. i therefore believe that venture capital would offer a viable alternative source of capital for smes and could help them to grow and become more competitive. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the text proposed by mr lamberts.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the report, in the belief that the establishment of european venture capital funds, subject to specific regulation in relation to directive 2011/61/eu, can be an important tool for recovery and growth of competitiveness and innovation, particularly in countries where the credit crunch is significantly affecting the production system, or where, for a complex of reasons, the venture capital culture is weaker. even more significant benefits will be seen in countries whose production structure is dominated by smes in high value-added sectors, especially technological ones, with positive effects on employment and consumers. the forecasts, set out in point 2 of the preamble, seem to me to set a correct overall regulatory framework, which emphasises the values of accessibility and competitiveness. the declaration is stringent and promises to provide significant incentives for investment in the young, innovative and competitive enterprise. the combined provisions of articles 1a and 13 provide a medium-term perspective which ensures the sustainability and strategic value of the initiative in the medium to long term, significantly reducing the risk of fraud or a disastrous interventionist change in the market.
in writing. - i congratulate mr lamberts on this report, which is a step forward in the regulation of european venture capital funds. i welcome this for two basic reasons: the first is that we need to stimulate the use of these particular financial instruments in europe because they are functional to the kind of industrial policy the eu is trying to pursue. although the public perception is unfortunately a little different, it must be remembered that these funds, with private resources, act in the same direction as many public policies are directed with money from the citizens; furthermore, their presence is a sign of a thriving market for highly innovative and research-based products, and so attracting them must go hand in hand with fostering a research environment that orients innovations towards the market. at the same time, we've seen in the last few years what it means to leave finance with a free hand: the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to turnover taxes is a good one. that is why i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. - in the context of the severe economic and financial crisis we are currently experiencing, the introduction of measures to guarantee small and medium-sized enterprises and the adoption of measures to boost growth and development can only be welcomed by this house. in particular, the proposal for a regulation establishes the legal and regulatory framework within which several investment funds may obtain the status of 'european venture capital fund' and the associated passport. the aim is to create a venture capital investment sector for smes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's industrial policy is not disrupted by the economic and productive forces which dominate the whole of european industry.
in writing. - whereas the proposal for a regulation establishes the legal framework within which different types of investment funds may obtain the status of 'european venture capital fund' and the corresponding passport, and whereas the objective of this proposal is to create a european venture capital investment sector for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes); i also agree that the proposal for a regulation lays down the criteria, in terms of available assets, which a fund must meet in order to obtain the status and passport mentioned above and that it also lays down the requirements for managers of venture capital funds and the restrictions on the investments which can be made with the assets of a fund, i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - we voted today to give the go-ahead to the agreement with the council on the new rules relating to the european social entrepreneurship fund. these measures will also make it easier for investors to find funds specialised in financing european social enterprises, and the funds will be obliged to inform investors about the monitoring and publication of information on the impact of investments made. social investment is a key element in the investment landscape for growth, particularly for those who have been most affected by the economic crisis or are chronically under-resourced. for this reason, i believe that the new regulation will finally overcome the difficulty, which many people have experienced, of identifying funds investing in social enterprises and allowing the companies themselves to monitor the visibility of their investment and the transparency of it.
in writing. - with regard to the proposal to adopt a regulation on european venture capital funds, i would like to stress the importance of these funds for the creation and development of smes, often by increasing the number of employees and the productivity of these enterprises. for these reasons too, the need for detailed and stringent rules in this area is becoming increasingly felt. a regulation would clarify the requirements for different types of investment funds to qualify as a european venture capital fund, thus creating a uniform european scenario, and would also make binding the criteria for selecting the investments that can be made with a given fund. in addition, there are control measures by a competent authority to ensure that the criteria imposed by the regulation are strictly and continuously respected. for these reasons, i am in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i believe that social enterprises bring benefits not only in economic and social terms but also in terms of employment, especially at this historic moment when youth unemployment in europe stands at 23.6%, i.e. some 6 million young people without a job. today, social enterprises represent 10% of european enterprises and employ some 11 million people. they need to be supported by appropriate forms of financing, by improving the legal and fiscal environment and by adopting a european social etiquette. these measures can help to achieve financial independence and should be publicised through appropriate communication campaigns. for many young europeans, the proposal to create a legislative framework adapted to the needs of social enterprises and investors is an important starting point.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote on the report by mrs auconie on the european social entrepreneurship funds, because i think the analysis contained in the text is not sufficiently detailed and some passages are unclear.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. our social model, from welfare to the labour market, is now under question, and must be thoroughly revised, if we are to guarantee - even to the next generation - the maintenance of the present quality of life. the answers to this challenge are to be found in the application of the principle of subsidiarity, and in this context, social entrepreneurship plays a prominent role. the vision behind the report is to promote balanced development and encourage practical solidarity and social responsibility in a realistic market environment; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a very good one. the proposal for a regulation has the effect of aligning and systematizing national legislation (some of which is very advanced), but which is lagging behind (i am thinking of italy) in relation to the social changes of the last thirty years. it is therefore appropriate to take action by establishing a common framework with benchmarks for qualitative requirements on portfolio composition, investor profile and investment eligibility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am pleased with the direction that this proposal is taking in the funds which are concerned in particular with social projects. there is a well-established economic literature on the so-called 'third sector' (which is in addition to the public and private sectors), and even the best practices that can be observed at the empirical level deserve to be framed and supported by appropriate regulatory forecasts. the fact that the european union brings together countries with well-functioning market economies (as required by the copenhagen criteria) does not mean that we should put aside those who, for reasons unrelated to goodwill, are unable to keep up with the competitive pace of our economies. this is not only one of the principles of my group, but it is now widely accepted as an exit clause for all those who, despite the opportunities, are left behind. mrs auconie has found the right balance between the regulatory requirements necessary to limit the scope of these funds and the flexibility of the instruments to allow eligible investments to produce significant positive effects on the european economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs auconie's report because i believe that, in the same way as european venture capital funds, the establishment of the european social entrepreneurship fund can meet the investment needs of legal persons carrying out non-profit-making activities. it is of the utmost importance that we, as the european parliament and the european union in general, also pay attention to the social entrepreneurship sector, especially in a context of such a severe crisis as the present one. on several occasions, especially during the debate on the european budget for 2014-2020, we have stressed the need to respond to the crisis with measures that focus on growth and development. the establishment of these funds is precisely in this direction.
in writing. − considering that helping to combat the social consequences of the financial crisis and making a valuable contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is of fundamental importance in order to allow the formation within the eu of a social investment market represented by investment funds for social enterprises and agreeing that investors also pursue social objectives and not just a financial return, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the european union must immediately boost social entrepreneurship: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the need for a genuine social investment market, including investment funds for social enterprises, is emerging day by day throughout europe. these resources already provide funding for positive social change, innovative solutions to problems and the fight against the consequences of the financial crisis, all in the context of achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - the report in question is fully acceptable when it addresses the need to help social enterprises which provide services to disabled people and their integration into the world of work. unfortunately, although they deal with different issues, the reports also include social enterprises that provide services to immigrants. that is why i voted against the motion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs auconie's report because i fully share its objectives, first and foremost the objective of giving greater importance to social enterprises in the eu, which account for 10% of european enterprises and employ 11 million people. this report, on the one hand, increases the attractiveness of the label 'european social entrepreneurship fund' and, on the other hand, ensures a high level of protection for investments. companies that are not profit-oriented but aim to provide goods and social services to citizens are finding it difficult to finance their activities in this period of economic crisis. as a result of our negotiations, we have managed to achieve a regulatory framework that facilitates access to funds and their management for both beneficiaries and investors, thanks to a traceability system.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation on the european social entrepreneurship funds (esif) is to my liking, as it aims, among other things, to protect investors who will be informed about these funds and thus be able to compare investment proposals from different esifs. the above-mentioned regulation will impose selective criteria for acquiring the designation of 'european social entrepreneurship fund' and will thus ensure uniformity within the countries of the european union, thus also increasing the confidence of investors who wish to invest in funds for social enterprises. attention will also be paid to the type of investment made with these funds and to the social enterprises considered as eligible portfolio enterprises. the regulation stipulates that an eligible portfolio undertaking must have as its primary objective the achievement of a measurable and positive social impact, use profits to achieve its primary objective and be managed in a responsible and transparent manner. in order to prevent the use of the efsi for purposes other than those for which it was created, there is a need for supervisory action by the competent authorities to eliminate any risk of abuse.
mr president, it is quite clear that the austerity policies imposed throughout europe and the dramatic cuts in social welfare spending, which in some cases have been implemented blindly and indiscriminately by national governments, are primarily affecting women and mothers. it is the task of the european parliament to denounce this situation in the interests of the european union, of our fellow citizens, so that the necessary budgetary discipline does not affect european women and families, their projects and programmes, because hitting women feeds the vicious economic circle in which we find ourselves. the balance of the budget cannot mean indiscriminate cuts in the welfare state, education, the rights of children and young people. last month, a written declaration was adopted calling for 2014 to be the european year of work-life balance: it is now up to the commission to give concrete answers to this question and it is very urgent that these answers should be received. we celebrated international women's day on monday, but this celebration may be over if we do not get immediate and positive responses, and that is our hope.
mr president, i have given a favourable opinion on the report on the impact of the economic crisis on gender equality and women's rights. in the economic crisis which has hit europe in recent years, women have suffered from a precariousness of work, which has resulted in the predominant growth of atypical forms of work. women are often forced to leave work to care for children or older relatives; this has had a profound impact on their careers. the situation is even more critical in the peripheral areas of the european union, where member states should exploit the enormous amounts of alternative forms of energy to create jobs, such as in the green sector, and reduce female unemployment. in order to try to stem the effects of the crisis, it is also necessary that the european institute for gender equality in vilnius monitor the consequences of the crisis and its effects on the female labour market, in order to eliminate any form of discrimination in the recruitment process, in order to ensure equal rights in the labour market.
in writing. − i voted for this report because gender equality must be a key consideration when defining the response to the current economic and financial crisis. as we all know, the effects of this crisis are more serious for vulnerable people, and in particular for women, who are affected directly through loss of their jobs or pay cuts, or indirectly through budget cuts in public services and welfare. for this reason, with this text we deplore the fact that policy responses to the crisis have failed to rectify the gender impact of the crisis and we call on the member states to ensure that the measures taken are long term in scope, and do not undermine welfare policies and public sector structures, such as social services and care facilities, healthcare, education and workers’ rights, that are a precondition for greater gender equality.
in writing. − the world economy has experienced a series of successive crises since 2008: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the latter factor, in my view, has been underestimated by european governments, which immediately adopted fiscal stimulus measures and only subsequently defined budgetary savings plans to stop the spiral of public deficits. the consolidation of the budgets of the member states has largely obscured the social crisis which has hit europe, particularly women. in 2011, 31.6% of women worked part-time; the phenomenon is so widespread that the european commission does not express itself in terms of 'part-time work' but of 'part-time unemployment'. in my view, one of the first levers of action to tackle the problem is through education and training, both initial and continuing, to enable women to adapt to the evolution of the labour market. in this context, the european social fund should also be mobilised, along with all other european programmes, to promote greater social inclusion. the commission should also use the economic recovery plans to strengthen women's rights and include the gender equality dimension in all aspects of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the report by mrs morin-chartier.
in writing. - i thank the honourable member for the complex work of synthesis which underlies the report, for which i am convinced that i shall vote in favour. at this particular point, it is necessary to bear in mind the principles set out in paragraphs 12) on work as a necessary condition for the exercise of equal opportunities rights and 61) on the duty of the institutions to hold governments and businesses accountable in the defence of the right to work linked to the right to maternity and paternity. in italy, the lag in female employment rates compared to the oecd average had been painstakingly recovered by a model that emphasised flexibility and decentralised bargaining. the crisis has completely burned through this painstaking adjustment work, causing a sharp decline in the female employment rate which, as confirmed by eurostat data, places italy today at the lowest levels in the eu-27, with a gender gap of almost 20 points. in the belief that the exercise of rights must be guaranteed by the support of best practices originating in the social body, as an expression of intrinsic politeia, i agree with the analysis and recommendations of the report, with particular reference to the issues mentioned in points 2), 23), 40), 57), 60).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important resolution which clearly and decisively reaffirms the support for women, especially in this period of economic crisis. women are the most discriminated against, especially in the workplace. the issue of reconciling work and private and family life must remain a priority, despite the difficult times we are living through and we must never let our guard down. it is enough to consider that the fall in the birth rate in the eu is undoubtedly exacerbated by the increase in unemployment and the precariousness and uncertainty of the future, which are profoundly undermining our society. the member states and the eu must make every effort to help women through concrete aid and policies that are appropriate and increasingly coordinated with each other to better achieve the result. i also fully agree with the call on the european commission to review the gender pay gap directive, as already requested by parliament in a 2012 resolution. equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value is a matter of social justice which must be guaranteed without reservation.
in writing. − the austerity and budgetary policies of the european union have not only had a negative effect on the macroeconomic factors of the member states, but have also contributed to the widening of social and gender gaps. our group, and the italian delegation i have the honour to represent, have repeatedly stressed the need to reverse course and have repeatedly urged the heads of state and government to try to reach an agreement on the budget, which would not be limited to the short and medium term but would try to look to the future of the next generations and to the need to deliver a europe that is truly united and in solidarity. in this context, the position of women - in the workplace and in society - must and can only be improved by adopting policies that make innovation and investment their common denominator.
in writing. - i gave a positive opinion on the report on the impact of the economic crisis on gender equality and women's rights, because during the economic crisis which has hit europe in recent years, women have suffered from a precariousness of work, which has resulted in the predominant growth of atypical forms of work. women are also often forced to leave work to care for children or elderly family members. this has a profound impact on their career path. the situation is even more critical in the peripheral areas of the eu, where, however, member states should exploit the enormous amounts of alternative forms of energy to create jobs, for example in the 'green' sector (solar or wind energy), and reduce female unemployment. in addition, the crisis has also hit single parents hard, who, due to the need for atypical working hours, have increased the risk of poverty for women. in order to try to stem the effects of the crisis, it is necessary for the european institute for gender equality in vilnius to monitor the consequences of the crisis and its effects on the female labour market, in order to eliminate any form of discrimination in the recruitment process and to ensure equal rights for women in the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. the world economy has been hit by a series of successive crises - financial, economic and now social - which have particularly affected women. european women are being hit by a crisis that is more silent than that affecting men, but no less tragic. for example, women in the public sector represent on average almost 70% of the workforce and are the main victims of budget cuts by member state governments. the reduction in public employees reached 25% in some member states. in 2011, 31.6% of women worked part-time. the phenomenon has now reached such proportions that the european commission does not speak of parttime work but of parttime unemployment. it is therefore essential to integrate the gender perspective into the solutions that the institutions will define to address the crisis.
in writing. - european women are affected by a silent crisis and although the effects of the crisis have been felt more slowly and less violently than men, they are still present. it is therefore essential to integrate the gender perspective into the solutions that the public authorities will define to address the crisis. i am not in agreement with all the points in the proposal, but i voted in favour of it because i believe that the european social fund must be mobilised, along with all the other european programmes, to promote greater social inclusion of women through improved vocational integration.
in writing. − the global crisis that began in 2008 has led governments to focus their efforts on fiscal consolidation, forgetting the social crisis that has been fuelled by the combination of economic crises, which is particularly affecting european women. the consequences on women have been felt more subtly, more silently, the effects of the crisis have been felt more slowly and less violently than on men, but in the long run they will pay the highest price, as cuts in public services will affect women's work more permanently. it is necessary to establish without delay a common framework of rules regarding the use of the european social entrepreneurship fund, with particular reference to the eligible investment objectives, the investment instruments they may use and the categories of investors who may invest in those funds.
in writing. − we are all aware of the financial crisis that has been plaguing the european union since 2008, but little is said about the serious social consequences it has brought. first of all unemployment, and particularly female unemployment. in the initial period of the crisis, men were the most affected by job loss, but as additional problems such as the decline in public services and the decline in household spending power took place, women were in many cases forced to leave their jobs, which had already been transformed from full-time to part-time contracts, to enter the informal economy. the combination of these events has contributed to the sharpening of gender inequality as a consequence of the economic crisis. it is therefore essential that measures for post-crisis economic recovery also include education and training policies which enable women to adapt to the evolution of the labour market. a good idea is to use the european social fund to stimulate and encourage women's reintegration into the world of work, and to develop gender equality policies in all aspects of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. i therefore express my favourable opinion.
mr president, a few months ago the european commission adopted the proposal for a directive on the so-called 'pink quotas'. i don't like the term, i prefer "equal democracy". the debate, vote and adoption of this measure will be a useful test of the goodwill of this parliament, the commission and above all the member states to help eliminate those stereotypes which still affect so many women in their professional careers and which we have identified in this resolution, which i voted in favour of. however, it is disconcerting to hear that an important and powerful woman, the german chancellor, is opposing the possibility of so-called "pink quotas" on boards of directors, a sign that there is clearly still a long way to go, especially since this is a woman who is interrupting a virtuous path in the process of overcoming stereotypes about women. i would also ask that the alarm caused by these statements be brought to light as soon as possible.
in writing. - the disparities between men and women in terms of socioeconomic conditions remain deeply rooted in the traditional gender role-based division, which places men primarily in charge of generating income and women in charge of providing care for the home and family free of charge. women are victims of cultural discrimination that does not take into account meritocracy: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to women in the same way as to men. the cultural misperception that makes women vulnerable to discrimination and violence must be reversed, including through the responsible use of information media and new technologies, and the threshold for women's participation in political and economic decision-making must be raised.
in writing. − i voted for this report because, despite the eu’s commitments, there is still a gap in legislation on non-discrimination against women and gender equality in the areas of social security, education, media, employment and wages. women continue to be under-represented in political decision-making at local, national and eu level. most of all, gender stereotypes and sexism are still prevalent in both political and economic decision-making bodies, with regular instances of sexist remarks and harassment, including some forms of sexual harassment and violence against women. in addition to that, in almost every eu member state many women continue to carry a disproportionate share of the burden when it comes to raising children and taking care of other dependants. this is due to the persistence of stereotypes which act as a barrier to the sharing of family and domestic responsibilities between women and men and hinders the achievement of equality in the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs liotard on the elimination of gender stereotypes in the european union. gender stereotypes also arise from the lack of female representation in certain positions, which are still perceived as only "male". only by reversing this trend can the current prejudices that limit women's opportunities and choices in the social, economic and political spheres be broken down.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because of the political message which draws attention to gender inequality. the fourth world conference on women was held in beijing on 15 september 1995, at which the declaration and platform for action on the "removal of all obstacles to the active participation of women in all areas of public and private life" were adopted. however, after more than 15 years, gender stereotypes and inequalities are still common problems in the european union today. women are often underrepresented in the media, or are portrayed in roles considered 'feminine', with the result that even greater gender discrimination is encouraged in a number of sectors of society and across all age groups. this trend must be reversed, especially by taking action to prevent the phenomenon from occurring in the cultural sphere, but without prior censorship of information media which operate with due regard for the protection of the younger public. i therefore felt that i had to take account of the need not to impose any censorship on adult citizens in relation to content they access, as long as such content does not violate the rights of minors, while hoping that the role of women will be better protected against gender discrimination and exploitation which certainly have a cultural base in pornography.
in writing. − whereas gender equality is a fundamental human right. guaranteed by the eu, in accordance with article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, 'the union shall aim, in all its actions, to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women'; whereas the prevalence of negative gender stereotypes based on social prejudices and attitudes is also harmful to women and limits their opportunities and choices in the social, economic and political spheres; i voted in favour of the proposal despite some points of disagreement, aware that to tackle the problem of the lack of women at the highest levels of economic and political decision-making, we must tackle the persistence of gender stereotypes at all levels of society.
in writing. − gender equality is a fundamental human right and to achieve it the european union must continue to work to eliminate all forms of inequality by promoting equality between men and women. the fourth world conference on women held in beijing in 1995 must remain the reference point in this respect for the removal of all obstacles to women's active participation in public and private life. this must be the starting point and the end point for all our actions now and in the future.
in writing. − many of the european union's major objectives relate to social policies, in particular the elimination of all discrimination on grounds of gender, race or religion. on the elimination of gender discrimination, since 1995, with the adoption of the beijing declaration and platform for action, the european union has committed itself to constantly monitoring progress and implementing resolutions on women's rights. however, despite the constant renewal of the available means, there remains an objective gender inequality, which is reflected in the world of work, with different levels of contributions but also in the economic and political decision-making environment. therefore, there is a need to persevere in the implementation of positive practices and teachings from the media and schools that help to train new generations free from gender stereotypes and discrimination. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. - the report by mr rossi, 'making the most of eu environmental measures', was put to the vote after the rapporteurs from the main groups of the ppe, s&d, alde and greens/efa had agreed on a long series of amendments with the sole purpose of distorting the content of the entire report, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because potential endocrine disruptors include substances such as steroid hormones, certain pesticides, dioxins, and plastic additives. as there are still questions to be answered, we have therefore asked the commission to take action to protect human health, particularly the health of vulnerable groups such as the elderly, pregnant women and children.
in writing. − this report, in the spirit of smart regulation, is an attempt to consolidate efforts to improve the implementation of european environmental legislation, by leveraging on the simplification of eu environmental law, reducing administrative burdens and strengthening european and national administrative structures. the aim is to embark on a path towards effective implementation of european environmental legislation through the development of evidence-based policies and strategies, with the cooperation of the member states and local authorities. it is a question of taking up the challenge of subsidiarity, of bringing environmental legislation into a closer relationship with citizens and national administrations, increasing its immediacy and transparency. i regret that my shadow rapporteurs agreed to a long series of amendments with the intention of making a fundamental change to the report without even consulting me. despite this unfair procedure, i shall vote in favour of the text, even though i have some doubts about it.
in writing. − the european union has developed considerable legislation on environmental protection. one of the major obstacles we face is the ineffective implementation of these provisions at national, regional and local level. the report by mr rossi proposes the elimination of many administrative and bureaucratic obstacles: the savings in economic terms would therefore amount to eur 50 billion per year. this measure can only benefit the european industry. environmental protection is not just a matter for businesses, but has a considerable impact on the lives of all citizens. i believe it is important to increase the levels of transparency and to inform european citizens adequately about the content and the effects, including legal ones, that these policies have on their daily lives.
in writing. − much of european legislation takes the form of directives which, by setting out general guidelines, leave member states a wide margin of discretion as to how they implement them. it is important, however, that all community directives are correctly transposed and implemented in accordance with the guidelines specifically laid down for environmental matters. according to the latest data, the annual cost of non-implementation of eu environmental legislation is currently €50 billion in direct health and environmental costs, not including the negative effects on the state of the environment in the eu. to prevent this from happening, all member states must be urged to adopt a responsible approach to environmental policy and to respect the correct use of environmental policy, ensuring a proper flow of information and transparency. this will require increased monitoring and control and more frequent collection of updated data, including, where necessary, the establishment of an environmental law inspection unit to monitor and assist in the implementation of environmental legislation. i am in favour of this.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat, the individual rapporteurs who contributed to the drafting of the report and the drafting of the compromise amendments, and all the staff who supported us. it is clear that we are on the eve of an important stage for this parliament, which is taking a position for the first time in a legislative body on the common agricultural policy. what i really hope is that tomorrow's vote will be the fruit of a lot of hard work, which has seen us participate in a new process, but also in a different context, for which i, together with my fellow rapporteurs, have proposed possible solutions and keys capable of opening up opportunities for european farmers in a global economic context which still sees them in great difficulty and suffering. we are committed to them and, although other voices are more prominent than theirs, we have worked to respond to their problematic requests, which have been plaguing farmers for too long, by making them an active part of the definition of a really effective cap with really measurable results. the report by mr ashworth and mr deß has already confirmed parliament's willingness and commitment to simplify the complex administrative machinery and reduce the burden on farmers, including for the common agricultural policy after 2013. the time has come to put that will into practice by developing and putting in place simple instruments that will foster greater compliance at all levels in a still uncertain financial environment. in my proposal i have tried to sum up some of the important points of what has been agreed so far, and to put into practice some of the real requirements: the first is simplification, which is done in many ways. for example, by means of a multiannual application with annual confirmation; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. we also need to distinguish between fraud and non-compliance, and this is a great step forward for all honest farmers whom we must protect, but also for a system of controls which we must streamline. as regards the penalties for greening, the proposed amendment to article 65 of the text is, in my view, designed to ensure that the administrative penalties for greening payments do not go beyond those payments and therefore do not affect the basic payment. i think that this need must be clearly stated in order to avoid misunderstandings and to open the way to possible difficulties for farmers in the first phase of the new common agricultural policy. the role of the member states in the implementation of the new cap will be important through the renewed management of control and certification systems, which lead to a reduction in error rates as well as the number of on-the-spot checks, thus rewarding the most virtuous states. as far as rural development is concerned, i referred to the so-called automatic decommitment of regional development programmes, in order to give the possibility that resources which a region has failed to spend in its own rdp may remain in the member state and be redistributed to more virtuous regions. mr president, these are just some of the many measures proposed to make the procedures and criteria for allocating resources transparent. i have to say one last thing about the subject of transparency, which has been discussed by a number of other colleagues. the publication of data on beneficiaries under the current financial regulation is mandatory for all. i would like to see farmers not be burdened with additional costs compared with those who benefit from all the other structural funds. that is why i naturally ask that the general rule be applied to all and that there be no greater burdens and constraints on farmers than on others.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional policy, i am pleased to be able to contribute to the adoption of the general regulation on the cap, an instrument which guides agricultural policies towards the europe 2020 strategy. that is why the regi committee has opted for a horizontal regulation based on effectiveness and efficiency and addressing the needs of farmers and rural communities, including those on the outskirts and on the margins, in order to have a greener and fairer cap, while maintaining greening as the first pillar, a cap that is nonetheless rigorous, in order to ensure long-term sustainability and the interoperability of resources and structures. the regulation promotes sustainable, smart and less bureaucratic farming, which ensures real and effective environmental measures and reduces the gap between farmers who have received resources on the basis of historical expenditure in the past.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as the shadow rapporteur for my political group on various dossiers, i should like to begin by thanking my colleagues for the work they have done in recent months. from the outset we have welcomed and indeed urged the involvement of all our colleagues. we have had the support of many colleagues from different committees thanks to the amendments tabled last july. we shall vote tomorrow on all the amendments tabled to the text approved by the committee on agriculture. this is an important reform and we must therefore respect the views of anyone who wants to propose further changes. in view of this spirit of cooperation which we have seen across all four reports and all the work that has been done, we must vote in favour of the mandate tomorrow and continue this process. we cannot delay the entry into force of the reform any further; we are responsible for millions of farmers. the demonstrators outside our parliament today remind us that, regardless of our political colour, we are called to an act of conscience tomorrow. to be more powerful during trilogues, parliament must present itself as a united body; we must be able to defend our position. that is why we must vote tomorrow by a large majority in favour of continuing the dialogue with the other institutions and avoiding the return of a single dossier to committee.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have found many good solutions in the committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the fact is that in recent years some member states, e.g. germany, have done their homework and moved away from the historical premium towards a regional approach. in most countries, including the country i come from - in italy - this has not happened. there, the average premium in the regions where farming is most difficult, namely in the mountains, is 50 euros per hectare, and just 100 kilometres away, where farming is easier in the plain, it is 500 euros. that's a ratio of 1:10 in a very small space. worse still, where premiums are highest, many farmers have de facto withdrawn from farming and live off the fact that they receive good premiums and generate income. i often say that whereas we used to have couch potatoes -- these were farmers who had milk quotas and then sold them and lived off of them -- we now have couch bonus recipients. so these are premium recipients who are living off the fact that they have historical premium rights and there's little farming behind it. we must improve on this point. i would also ask you, commissioner, to do everything possible to ensure that the period of the financial framework, that is to say the next seven years, is used to finally create equality among farmers here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow will be an important day, because it marks the end of a long process which has seen this parliament engaged in discussing, in the most open and democratic way possible, a reform of the common agricultural policy, which concerns not only farmers but all european citizens. the committee on agriculture, which i have the honour of chairing, has been holding hearings with experts and meetings with interested parties for all these months. the other committees which have delivered an opinion have been involved; the european parliament has even brought together the 27 agriculture ministers in the european parliament to set the new course which includes this institution, which has the greatest democratic legitimacy in deciding this policy. so i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, all the members, the secretariat, the staff who have worked on this enormous democratic effort. after having debated and voted on more than 8 000 amendments, we have come here today to ask this house for a mandate to start negotiations with the council and the commission and to have a new agricultural policy for europe as soon as possible. what we are about to vote on is the result of a difficult compromise, but it is an improvement on the commission's proposal in terms of simplification of bureaucracy, more attention to the environment, to enterprises and to labour, with more market management instruments. if we are to have a greener cap, it will be thanks to this parliament and although many of us in this house and outside this house would have wanted more, we have still managed to get a majority in the committee in favour of greening and 30% greening in the first pillar. finally, i would ask commissioner cioloş, whom i thank for his willingness to speak to parliament, to tell us whether he supports the work of the committee on agriculture as a whole and whether he thinks it important that this house should approve the negotiating mandate. i ask this, commissioner, because having received a letter from two commissioners not responsible for the agriculture portfolio, advising us members how to vote, we wonder whether that letter represents the personal opinion of potočnik or hedegaard or the whole college of commissioners. i call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the negotiating mandate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased with the work done in the committee on agriculture, which has improved on the proposal originally put forward by commissioner cioloş and which, in our view, contained genuinely punitive measures for agriculture, such as greening which increased bureaucracy, such as immediate convergence, which would have brought whole crops and whole areas of europe to their knees, without taking account of the diversity of our agriculture. the proposal which emerges from the vote in the committee on agriculture guarantees flexibility in convergence and guarantees those who today receive the direct payment as a result of the historical premium a minimum and diluted loss over time: i am thinking of olive groves, tomatoes, arable land in some parts of my country, such as southern italy. we are therefore pleased that the cap is focusing on a number of essential issues: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area, which is to be signed by the council and the commission on 1 january. we are concerned, commissioner, about the budget cuts. we need resources to protect and support quality agriculture, to recognise and promote the value of production, to guarantee the dignity of farmers' incomes. we will give a strong mandate for the negotiations tomorrow but we are prepared to vote against if the negotiations do not meet parliament's demands and if adequate resources are not identified to support agriculture and farmers.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you all for this lively debate. i conclude that we agree on the objectives and principles of this reform. and this is quite normal, since the debate and preparation of this reform has been going on for years. there are also areas where i see that we are in agreement, at least from what i have heard here today. of course, we'll see what the votes say tomorrow. but in any case, i could see that we were in favour of an agriculture which was more in line with the optimal management of natural resources, that the first pillar of the cap should contribute to the achievement of this objective, that we were in favour of an equivalence between the agri-environmental measures of the second pillar and other environmental practices, of an equivalence system which is therefore credible and simple to apply, of greening which should have a positive impact on all agricultural areas, and of a credible system of penalties to ensure the effectiveness of this type of greening. i also understand that you support a common agricultural policy which is transparent, because i think we all believe that the cap is effective, useful and that therefore we have nothing to hide, that we can show the taxpayers what the community's money is for. i also understood that you were in favour of a fairer common agricultural policy, providing for a better distribution of aid between the member states, but also within the member states, between farmers, and that therefore, even taking into account certain specificities in certain member states and regions, where the process of equivalence should take more time and be done in stages, we should eventually arrive at real convergence. i have also heard those of you who support the idea of limiting farm subsidies, taking account in particular of the economies of scale for large farms and of a more efficient use of money. i also heard that some countries with large farms may be affected by the caps. this will not be the case, since the money from the ceiling will remain in the respective member states and will be able to benefit all farms through other more appropriate measures. i should like to say a word about the less-favoured areas. in my view and in the commission's view, we must have a targeted tool to direct aid towards less favoured areas, but we must also take into account the fact that today in europe more than 140 different criteria are used to define less favoured areas. that is why we think it is important to be able to take a decision now, in the context of this reform, on the generalization of these criteria at european level. although it will take a transitional period to implement this new arrangement, it is important for our credibility and for the credibility of this support to the less-favoured areas to take such a decision in the context of this reform. some of you have spoken about quantity management systems, supply management in the sugar, wine and milk sectors. i don't think we can design the future of this industry with the tools of the past. yes, in some sectors, supply and production must be monitored. this is the case in the wine sector, where, in the context of the high-level group where all the member states were represented and where producers were also able to express themselves, something emerged that i think was consistent and more appropriate to the current situation in the wine sector. for the sugar sector, the fact that the limitation of production quantities is being eliminated at a time when demand is high and prices are very high, the fact that quotas are being eliminated does not mean that the sector will remain unregulated, since instead, substantial contractual tools and therefore elements of security for producers are being offered, in relation to the sugar industry and to what is happening on the market. as you know, the decision to abolish milk quotas was taken a long time ago in the dairy sector. the producers have been informed, they have had time and they still have time, until 2015, to adapt. we offered the milk package. some of you say the milk pack isn't enough. i have made a commitment that at the end of this commission's term of office, at the end of my term of office, i will come forward with new ideas if necessary. the commission has launched an expert study on the dairy sector at european level and i propose, and i propose to you - i have discussed this with the sector - to organise a conference to discuss the conclusions of this study or other ideas that may come from elsewhere. towards the end of the summer, at the beginning of the autumn, we propose to hold this conference, and depending on the conclusions that emerge, we do not exclude the possibility of coming up with new proposals and new ideas. as far as market management is concerned, we support and the commission supports the idea of using public funds, when necessary, and in an optimal way, to avoid crises, if possible, and where it will not be possible to manage crises, we will use market instruments as a safety net. we will thus ensure a strong link between agriculture and the market. to ensure this link, it seems to me important to strengthen the capacity of producers to organise themselves and thus make an important contribution to the future management of markets. some of you have mentioned export refunds and called for their abolition. i must stress once again that export refunds have not been used as the main instrument for market management for several years now. but on a global scale, europe has never been and is not the only one to use this type of instrument. europe has entered into trade negotiations in order to give up this type of instrument which can affect the ability of developing countries to develop their production. but if we unilaterally abandon these instruments in our legislation today, we will have no room for negotiation to force others to follow suit. that is why we propose to maintain this type of instrument in legislation, by undertaking to negotiate with the other international partners the abandonment of this type of instrument and its use. we have used it in recent years only in very serious crises and with very clear limits on its allocation, particularly to those countries which were most affected in the past. i would like to conclude by saying: yes, mr paolo de castro, yes, dear paolo, i think and i firmly believe that parliament must be able to have a negotiating mandate as soon as possible; i am grateful to the rapporteur, the fictitious rapporteurs and all the members of comagri for the work they have done in recent times to manage thousands of amendments, to reach compromise amendments and to be able to start this negotiation process. if tomorrow, thanks to the votes you will cast, this mandate can be improved, so much the better. in any case, you know, i suppose you are aware that we are only at the beginning of this negotiation process, that the mandate you are going to vote on tomorrow will probably evolve as a result of the negotiations with the council of ministers, with the commission. i'm the one who's negotiating. i am mandated by the commission's college to negotiate. you know very well my commitment and my positive spirit to discuss and negotiate the principles and objectives we have set ourselves for this reform. you can count on me, you can count on the commission to have a constructive discussion. i hope very much that you will give the representatives of parliament a mandate tomorrow to start the negotiations as soon as possible because, even for those who want a more thorough, more profound reform, i would like to stress the fact that if we do not start the negotiations as soon as possible, there is a risk that at the end of the mandate of this parliament and this commission we will be left without reform. and i don't think that's the goal that most of us want. so i hope that tomorrow, in all wisdom, you will give your negotiators the best possible mandate so that we can start the negotiations as soon as possible. i am sure that we will have the opportunity to meet again and discuss this matter in greater depth before the negotiations are concluded.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that the debate in this house today is parliament's response to the commission's proposal. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. there was convergence on some issues; there are still some issues where we are divided and we will see tomorrow what the final result will be. one thing is certain, though: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very important one. like the previous rapporteur, i must stress that we have made little reference in this debate to the question of resources for the new cap and, in your presence and in the presence of commissioner lewandowski, i would like to say that the proposal which emerged from the european council of 7 and 8 february is certainly not making us enthusiastic: it is a clearly reductive proposal and not what parliament wanted. in its report parliament called for a freeze of resources, whereas objectively we are left with something less than a freeze: we obviously have a cut. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i shall close with two comments. one is transparency: no one here wanted transparency, but we wanted the same transparency rules as those for all other structural funds and not for diversification elements. what the financial regulation provides is for everyone, whereas the commission proposal introduced something more, something specific to agriculture. one last note: we must avoid populist devices. i think we have all done a good job together and this is a good result of this parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing something today that is not yet well defined: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new financial framework is fully implemented. the difference is not insignificant, since some 10% of the union's annual budget, or several billion euros, is at stake. i think it is difficult to hope for a particularly generous european budget, given the difficult situation in all the member states of europe. however, commitments must be respected and continuous amending budgets cannot be used to pay for programmes and initiatives already undertaken. we must focus on precise priorities and i think that employment is rightly identified as the main challenge for europe at the moment. the report also mentions the possibility of introducing a financial transaction tax as a possible own resource of the union. i think it is difficult to implement, since some states have already expressed their opposition and there is a risk that dangerous internal imbalances will be created.
member of the commission. − mr president, very briefly: of course, when discussing 2014, we are not yet on solid ground. for solid ground to exist, we need agreement with the european parliament on the multiannual framework and also on a point of reference for 2014. therefore, i will not speculate here without a point of reference on what the level of payments for 2014 might be. but we know that, with so many unknowns, a good opening for the future would be not to overburden it with the problems of the past and of 2013. the 2013 budget that was voted on is eur 2.3 billion below what was implemented last year, and we can easily expect more claims coming in the final year of the financial perspective. it is my modest expectation that the member states are really ready to respect what we are sending to brussels as the cumulative effect of our bills. there are constraints regarding agencies and administrative expenditure, which is not enough to cover all that we need for credibility and to avoid damaging member states’ public finances in 2013. this is a good opening for 2014. that is one more reason why we need a lot of goodwill and cooperation to shape properly next year’s budget.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr trzaskowski has already made it clear that our aim was to fulfil a very delicate task which the treaty assigns to us and which is made necessary by the imminent accession of croatia to the union and by the end of the derogation to the ceiling of 751 members in force until the end of the current term of office, and to do so in a serious and responsible manner, by presenting a proposal which is based on the principle of degressive proportionality laid down in the treaty and at the same time declines it in a pragmatic and realistic way. as you know, the proposal is based on two stages: the first of these attempts to faithfully decline the three principles which this house voted for in the lamassoure-severin report, namely: a larger country is entitled to a greater number of seats, a member of parliament from a larger country must represent a greater number of citizens than a member from a smaller country, and it is also important to remember this third principle, namely that the maximum and minimum thresholds of 96 and 6 seats respectively should be used. the result of this first stage is a significant redistribution of seats, which we therefore consider unrealistic and inappropriate at this time. hence the second stage, which results from a political compensation carried out precisely, as rafał said, on the basis of the double principle 'no one gains and no one loses more than one seat'. it is a balanced and politically viable outcome, as has been demonstrated by the very broad support for the proposal in the committee on constitutional affairs, and we hope that this will be reflected in the vote in the house tomorrow. this does not mean, of course, that it is a perfect proposal: but i think it can be described as the least imperfect of the possible solutions. the vote tomorrow will also decide whether the last seat should be ceded by sweden, as in the original proposal, or by austria, as the afco committee has decided. i am aware of the sensitivity of the issue for both countries, which will, however, in any case elect at least one more member of parliament in 2014 than in 2009. the logic of the two-stage solution would lead to sweden being asked to make the sacrifice, whereas an assessment that does not take into account the first stage may support the opposite reasoning. i am personally, of course, fond of the original proposal, but in any case i feel that whatever the house decides on this point, the coherence and soundness of the whole proposal will not be affected. it would therefore be good if the european council adopted parliament's proposal without introducing amendments, which would inevitably trigger a veto mechanism. and i think i can say that the rapporteur's approach is to not give our consent to solutions other than those which will be voted on in this house. finally, i would like to stress the importance of another element in the resolution, namely parliament's commitment to propose a seat allocation mechanism in the context of a more general revision of the treaties, which also addresses the issue of the voting system in the council and also reopens the question of the introduction of a transnational list. these are two crucial points which should not be avoided but which must be dealt with appropriately in what we hope will be a constituent legislature for european democracy. we believe that this report and the solutions it proposes and indicates are a contribution in this direction and we therefore ask all members to support it with conviction.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, who have done a very difficult and lengthy job, without refraining from making some general and broader remarks. we are on a path in which europe pursues three objectives: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the synthesis is not so easy: in particular, the democratic principle would require that the decision-making power of each individual citizen be identical and that therefore each member of parliament represent an identical number of voters. but this would make the smaller states disappear and give the larger states excessive dominance. that is why the treaty of lisbon speaks of degressive proportionality, which the afco committee has interpreted to mean that in no case should the population of the states be put in order and that no representation of a state should be higher than that of a state with a larger population. the pragmatic solution which is being put forward today is concerned with determining the minimum sacrifice and the minimum advantage for the states which have to sacrifice or improve their representation as a result of croatia's accession. the afco committee has been trying for a long time to find mathematical formulas that could be used in the future for new entrants. but no automatic solution has been found so far. it is therefore clear that we are asking the states which are losing seats to contribute to european integration, but at the same time we should like to see further reflection on this subject, which could lead to a revision of the treaties in the future. in the meantime, progress is being made and it is hoped that there will be no obstacles to delay final approval. there will be a way later, including through a possible reform of the treaties, to examine the whole case more broadly. that is why i believe that all the amendments, even if some of them are very good, should be rejected and that the text proposed by the committee should be accepted with conviction.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the members who have spoken, who have made their contribution and who have also shown how difficult our task was. i should like to begin by thanking the colleagues from those countries who, in accepting mr rangel's invitation, understood the spirit, the logic and the rationality of the proposal, even though they lost a seat on the basis of it, and thus contributed to the successful outcome of the first stage of a procedure which is certainly complex and difficult. i think the discussion has highlighted the reasons for the complexity of the task entrusted to us: european democracy - it is good for everyone to remember this - is based on the principle of dual representation of citizens and states, and this principle is made even more complex by the fact that it is not realistically possible to distribute these two principles and have one of the two chambers representing citizens in a proportional manner and another representing the states. these two principles must coexist in a difficult balance within each of the two houses - parliament and council - but also in the relationship between them, a balance which cannot be established only in an abstract and unilateral way but which is also the result of a historical process of accumulation of weights and balances, which have in some way linked the allocation of a certain number of seats to parliament and that of a certain weight within the council. it is therefore a complex and multifaceted reality, and i would urge all colleagues to be cautious, even in their statements. mr werthmann has called for a mathematical solution: i would remind you that the main mathematical solutions - both the cambridge proposal and the parabolic proposal - which we have also included in our annex, would have meant that your country, austria, would have had to cut three members of parliament. so be careful about invoking mathematics. at the same time, i would like to say to the colleagues from the larger countries, who in some ways are also legitimately calling for an increase in seats, that this debate should have shown them that the problem, mr bélier, is not the unanimity of the european council, but the ability of this parliament to find a synthesis within itself and not to rely simply on the logic of the larger countries imposing the strength of numbers on the smaller ones. the problem is to find a solution of broad consensus, and i think that the principle that 'no one gains and no one loses more than one seat' is in the end the least imperfect of all possible principles, and any other solution which may seem better from an individual and unilateral point of view, when seen in the wider context of this house, in which we are all represented, is much more problematic than the one we are proposing. the question of austria and sweden, which has been the subject of much discussion in this debate, remains. i really respect and understand the positions of the representatives of both countries, i understand the sensitivity of the problem, but i would like to remind you - not to de-dramatise the matter but to remind you of a fact - that both austria and sweden have won two more seats in any case and that therefore, whatever happens in the vote tomorrow, neither country will elect less than one more member of parliament than the previous time. so there will still be an increase compared to the 2009 elections. that does not of course take away the fact that no one is excited about losing a seat, and i understand that. i repeat that the question can be considered from two points of view: the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. this is the logical consequence of the two-step model. but i also recognize... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mrs westlund for this important report which we are supporting. for some 20 years we have seen a steady increase in hormonal disorders and diseases caused by endocrine disruptors, substances capable of dangerously altering the proper functioning of our endocrine system. thousands of studies and research studies have been carried out worldwide, identifying these substances as one of the main causes of such diseases as reproductive disorders, premature puberty, breast cancer, but also foetal malformations, cases of diabetes and many others. endocrine disruptors are unfortunately found almost everywhere: in food packaging, cosmetics, electronic equipment, building materials, furniture, textiles, toys, and all these products, in our daily use, are released into the environment where they accumulate, for example, in the dust in our homes. this situation particularly exposes certain more vulnerable groups, such as women of childbearing age and small children who crawle on the floor and tend to put their fingers in their mouths. if we are to strengthen research in this field, we must also act on the legislative front and apply the precautionary principle, which is one of the cornerstones of the european union's chemicals policy. as with bisphenol a, which is now banned in the manufacture of baby bottles, we must restrict the use of these substances and adapt all relevant european legislation, namely the reach regulation, the directives on labelling and packaging, biocides and cosmetics. protecting the health of european citizens and creating a healthier living environment around them is our imperative duty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have heard, we are faced with two facts which should guide our action. the first is that hormonal disorders are on the increase and a substantial part of these are related to the effect of endocrine disruptors. the second is that science, unfortunately, still has quite limited levels of knowledge on the subject. so we have to do two things: the first is to give practical effect to the precautionary principle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the most vulnerable people, from children to women who decide to become mothers, are properly protected. the second is to encourage all research activities quickly, because we cannot afford to lose time. what we do not see is very dangerous, but the effects that we do see are of the kind described in mrs westlund's report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most accredited demographic institutes in europe agree that in the next 40 years we will have 80 million fewer births and that this gap must be filled if we are to offer our children the conditions of wealth and redistribution of rights that have rewarded our existence. so we need them. we need their culture, as well as their availability, because only through the exchange of different sensibilities, backgrounds and cultures can the quality of a community like ours be enhanced. i would point out to the commissioner that there is a problem: we must guarantee these people the same rights and the same material conditions as ourselves. it is for this very reason, however, that it is incomprehensible why the commission should seek to introduce exceptions to the principle of equal treatment on every occasion. there are some of your colleagues who seem to have this obsession. if we really want to have a positive policy towards immigrants, we must guarantee everyone the same conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is one point in this report which i think we can agree on, namely the creation of a common european platform on which to indicate the shortages of employment and the needs in the workplace, in such a way as to match any demand with the available supply. the rest of the proposal is, however, completely illogical: i wonder, for example, how we can guarantee easier access to the labour market for migrants, refugees and asylum seekers when there are no jobs for our own citizens. in a perfect time, in a perfect society, everyone should have the widest rights and the best guarantees, including work, of course. the reality is quite different and i cannot accept that our young people and the unemployed are being overtaken by others. they say immigrants do the jobs we don 't want to do anymore: that was probably true up until five years ago. but the situation is dramatically different now and i do not want to be called selfish or racist if i prefer that our young people, our women and our men be protected first.
in writing. thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it should not be acceptable for people who are already living in difficult conditions to suffer the effects of the crisis. this should be the norm, but unfortunately we have seen that the reality is very different: the elimination of funding for als patients, for example, was one of the most shameful pages in italian history, although fortunately a compromise was reached, albeit a poor one. i do not think it is acceptable to see continuous demonstrations by people with disabilities who do not ask for more than what should be theirs: last month, some associations even occupied the headquarters of my region, tuscany, in protest at the lack of recognition of the rights needed for their project of an independent life. because of the cuts, some of them found themselves with substandard medical supplies, obviously "made in china", which sometimes even turned out to be compounded with radioactive substances. europe cannot accept that this should happen in the 21st century, and it is time for decisive action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today i wanted to express a cry of pain from my country, italy, but especially from the northern regions, because the great austerity policy, which was applauded in this house a year ago when the new italian president of the council, mario monti, was presented, has indeed led to a reduction in the spread in our country, and then all the economic parameters have worsened. unemployment has increased, youth unemployment has increased, public debt has increased and suicides have also increased: the case of the suicides of entrepreneurs who can no longer pay taxes and who see their companies die, because of the taxes of the italian state, and who commit suicide out of shame. who are responsible for these suicides? the taxes of the italian state. but the italian state says that taxes are imposed by europe. and who will apologize to the families of these people who committed suicide? we cannot tolerate this situation any longer, but i remember that mario monti was applauded by everyone here. and these are the results of his policy. we must certainly adopt a different policy, one which is certainly not more rigorous, because we can no longer tolerate this kind of situation. i wonder why the european central bank lent so much money to banks, which then bought back government bonds just to make money without giving credit to businesses. what were those loans for? i wonder why the president of the ecb, when he was in italy, did not notice that the monte dei paschi in siena had a huge hole, which the italian citizens now have to pay for. who's gonna have to apologize for this? a europe that thinks only of banks and not of the real economy! that's the problem. so we're going to have to reform the banking system. i'll ask you another question: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. these are the real needs, otherwise europe is doomed to fail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr daul, my president of the ppe group, said that today was a historic day. i think that, despite the emphasis, it is profoundly true, because this week we are marking progress if possible in europe and we must therefore be aware that a political union of europe is the prerequisite for solving the problems. i think that we are, in today's debate, which is actually a little more in-depth than in other times, describing the problem without finding solutions. the president of the council referred to a real economy which must be managed and steered; president barroso said that we must not close ourselves off and that europe has a problem of strong relations with the world. it asks for trust, but i think there is trust. this problem of circling around facts and proposals without giving solutions is fuelling the distrust in our countries of which mr farage spoke, a distrust which has undoubtedly also been reflected in the italian election results. i believe that, therefore, beyond the slogan 'more europe', which is a slogan we use in all countries but which has no meaning, we must want a different europe, a political europe which can solve economic problems. if each of us has to make a contribution and if the european parliament must not take account of national issues but must take account of national issues harmonized with everything else, i would make one proposal to the president of the council: if we make a small step forward in the next council meeting on 14 march in eliminating from the stability pact the investment expenditure that individual countries make, it will be a relief not only for italy but also for other countries. this would be a step forward in relation to a european solution which we all want but which becomes declaratory and rhetorical if it lacks substance and substance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard from the commission and the council too soft analyses and too vague programmes, which fail to take account of the failure of the policies pursued so far and fail to commit themselves to changing course quickly, before the citizens themselves change course and turn their backs on europe, even in historically europeanist countries such as mine. there are too many alarm bells ringing and i think that men, even the most deaf, and why not women, even the most deaf, who may not be in this chamber, need to hear them. what value do reductions in budgetary imbalances have if they cause social and territorial imbalances? what is the value of budgetary convergence if it creates social and cultural differences? in my country, for the first time in decades, college enrollment is falling. is this the growth we want? the social consequences of austerity are not a vague sociological argument but are creating a very serious problem of social consensus and political legitimacy for the european union, with the risk that we europeans ourselves will be giving oxygen to all the nationalisms and populisms that we hear worrying voices echoing in this house. in fact, people are turning their backs on a europe which does not exist, which does not play its part and which they do not see as a driving force for growth but rather as a brake and a burden. i do not say this from an anti-european standpoint, but because i really want a europe of growth and not of failure. i think that the italian elections also challenge europe and pose a great problem to european policies, a great question for a europe that does not exist, for a europe that creates difficulties in governability rather than helping. we need to change quickly. the march council must change course quickly. there are things that are possible and doable, that must be done. the golden rule that was quoted: how can we tell the citizens to believe in a europe so unintelligent and - i beg your pardon - so technically stupid that it does not allow the money that is there to be used for the jobs that are needed and that the citizens are waiting for, perhaps to restructure schools, in the name of an abstract pact. help us to give europe the image we want. finally, as regards the debt problem: yesterday we opened a loophole with the two-pack. but what a struggle! and i say this on behalf of my group, what a struggle on the part of the members of this house and of the members of my group to get this breakthrough! we'll get things done in time if we want to earn the trust of the citizens.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me react to the main topics in your debate. firstly, preparations for the european council. it is clear that the european economy will be the prime topic for discussion in the european council. i would really like to reassure honourable members that the commission is pursuing exactly the track many of you have been calling for. this is clearly growth-friendly consolidation, support for growth and restoration of our economic competitiveness. most of us agree that fiscal consolidation is necessary. clear efforts in this regard brought us back from the abyss of the euro implosion which was expected and forecast by many just a year ago. we want to do this in a manner that takes into account reality and at the same time lays the ground for future growth. we are basing our policies on structural deficits, taking into account consolidation efforts, structural reforms and the external environment as well. as we have shown in the past with several member states, we are ready to give member states more time to consolidate their budgets if they are making a real effort and if the structural reforms are implemented. the commission will push strongly to use all the growth levers we have at our disposal. the eib has had its basic capital increased, so this bank will be allowed to provide eur 180 billion more in loans in the next three years. we have completed the preparation for project bonds where, again, more than eur 4.5 billion could be invested in infrastructure projects. we are reallocating the money from the esf and other funds to support the creation of jobs for youth and the long-term unemployed. we will also push – and here we believe we will have your strong support – for making better use of the single market potential. we still have quite a serious implementation gap in implementing the measures which we know will bring growth and the creation of new jobs to the european union. nevertheless, if you look at our track record with single market acts 1 and 2, there is a lot to do and we will be making as much effort as much as possible to ensure that we can benefit better from the single market. some of you referred to the forecast and questioned the methodology used by the commission, but please compare our forecast with those of the oecd, the ecb or the imf. you will find that it was usually the commission which was closest to reality. the crisis is unprecedented and has many new features. therefore, forecasting is also very difficult. on the multiannual financial framework, we are expecting your vote in a few moments. we respect your prerogative and we are greatly encouraged by the clear statement by the irish presidency to start comprehensive negotiations with you. the commission – president barroso, commissioner lewandowski and i – will do our utmost to be helpful and creative and to help the legislators find agreement on mff. we all know how much europe and european citizens need it. on hungary, i would like to assure parliament that recent developments are being closely followed by the commission. they were raised by president barroso with the hungarian prime minister just a few days ago. he assured him that hungary is fully committed to eu values and eu law. it was in that respect that the joint statement with the secretary-general of the council of europe, mr jagland, was issued. i would of course also like to reassure you that the commission, in very close cooperation with the council of europe and its venice commission, will proceed with a detailed analysis of the recent steps. as you have seen on many occasions, the commission treats all member states fairly, but at the same time always stands very firmly for full respect for european principles and law. this will be the case again. once again the commission will not hesitate to use all the instruments at its disposal once the analysis is finalised, and if necessary to ask for, and insist upon, the changes to be made by the hungarian authorities. i would like to conclude on a very serious note. this morning we heard in this chamber a statement associating two nations with crime. we heard suggestions that political decisions should be made on the assumption that romanians and bulgarians are bringing crime to the european union. this is stigmatisation, this is against all principles of non-discrimination and this is against european values. this statement has very clear xenophobic features. on behalf of the commission, i reject this statement and this approach. i am sure that this house will support us in this as well.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i think this has been a very helpful and a very interesting debate, and i want to say that the irish presidency has been following very carefully parliament’s deliberations on the mff, not just through this debate but for quite some time. the resolution on the mff – and the debate with so many contributions today right across the political spectrum – makes parliament’s position very clear. this usefully prepares the ground for our upcoming negotiations. i believe that there are grounds to go towards meeting some of parliament’s concerns; for example in relation to the question of flexibility and of, perhaps, a mid-term review, which has been mentioned by many speakers and which is reflected in the resolution. i need to make clear to the house the council’s view that the european council in february produced a solid outcome and was at the limit of what was possible at that meeting. i would also mention that this council outcome in february was the result of almost two years of deliberations at the general affairs council, and again in consultation with the european parliament. it is not something that appeared overnight, but rather something that was the product of very intensive and very extensive negotiations between the member states. in a period of huge budgetary austerity, there is only a marginal reduction in real terms on the current mff – itself agreed in much better times. there is a substantial increase, some 37%, in spending on competitiveness and research. i know that a range of members today have specifically focused on the need to enhance provision for research and development. therefore, i think that is a significant feature in the proposal. many members have rightly pointed to the massive challenge that we face in respect of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. that is why i believe that the eur 6 billion figure allocated for the youth employment initiative is extremely important and timely. cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, which are of enormous importance to many member states and many regions throughout the eu, have been largely preserved. as i mentioned, the taoiseach, our prime minister, has already met twice with president schulz since the european council to discuss how we can best move forward. they have agreed to maintain very close and regular contact and i expect that they will hold discussions again tomorrow at the european council. the tánaiste, our deputy prime minister, who is the chairman of the general affairs council, will continue negotiations, along with myself, on behalf of the council. we are in regular contact with the contact group here in parliament, with the group leaders and with the conference of committee chairs, and we will indeed build on this contact. we have a really important window of opportunity now to engage intensively on these issues in the weeks ahead. i very much welcome the statement from the commission in respect of parliament’s commitment to engage and to support that process. emerging from the debate here today, the message now has to be that we have no time to waste; that we have to move forward swiftly and with a sense of determination to arrive at a successful conclusion in these negotiations between the council and parliament. on the sectoral legislation – agriculture, cohesion etc – the presidency will aim to make the maximum possible progress with its opposite numbers in parliament. we will be constructive partners with the aim of achieving first reading agreements on as many mff-related files as possible within the irish presidency, in other words by the end of june. clearly, good progress on the mff will assist in this and i know that parliament shares this goal. we look forward to working closely with you on that. with the spring european council concluding the first phase of the european semester 2013, i think it is appropriate that i conclude by acknowledging again the very important work of the european parliament towards enhancing the democratic legitimacy of our collective efforts to support competitiveness, growth and jobs. i refer in particular to the parliamentary week of the european semester at the end of january and the development of a stronger dialogue with national parliaments, which i think we can all agree is extremely important. the irish presidency has been keen to support all of these efforts. it is clear from last year’s lessons-learned exercise that the european semester should be an open and inclusive process, supporting meaningful engagement with parliaments and all of the relevant stakeholders, both at european and at national level. these are therefore important contributions to an important debate, and provide a very strong basis for further reflection and engagement over the period ahead. it is clear that strong economic governance arrangements must go hand in hand with stronger democratic legitimacy, and that is a principle which the irish presidency holds very dear and will continue to promote. we must also, of course, remain firmly focused on the scale of the current jobs crisis. i have already alluded to the scourge of youth unemployment, as many members have in your debate today. unemployment levels are up on this time last year and are unacceptably high: now at almost 12% for the euro area, and 11% for the eu as a whole. there is no stronger signal that we must redouble our efforts towards economic recovery. we cannot realistically claim to have emerged from the current crisis until our economies are growing again and, most importantly, our economies are creating jobs for our citizens. ms podimata actually summed this up extremely well when she said that we must once again regain the trust of our citizens. this is the litmus test for that. to regain the trust of our citizens we have to give them hope; we have to show them that there is a future which can be guided and delivered by the european union, by all eu member states and the european institutions working together to deal with that. a number of members referred to the need for a two-track process. i agree with this. i think we need to focus on consolidation, but coupling that with a firm focus on the growth agenda. i would firmly disagree with the idea that these are somehow mutually exclusive. these are very clearly two sides of the same coin. we must stabilise public finances, we must deal with the mounting debt burden and we must not ignore the huge challenge of enormous deficits in member states if we are to tackle the challenge of competitiveness of growth and ultimately fulfil our commitment to delivering on the job creation agenda. we must focus firmly on both tracks, which of course are essential in terms of complementing each other. i would like to simply thank members once again for your attention and for a very stimulating debate. i sincerely look forward to working very closely with the european parliament on the mff in particular, to ensure that we have an outcome which delivers for our citizens and which delivers on our goal of regaining the trust of our citizens and of offering a bright future for our citizens. i think that is the role and responsibility of members of the european parliament, of members of the council and indeed of the commission, all working together to achieve that same objective. (applause)
i have received two motions for resolutions see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
mr president, this report was voted unanimously by the afco committee, with no votes against and only two abstentions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but of course it makes no sense to refer a report back to a committee which has unanimously approved it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as president schulz very correctly pointed out a short while ago, we have convened a committee under rule 162 to examine the possibility of reducing the number of amendments. the meeting took place last monday and a proposal i made to bring all the amendments to the house was unanimously accepted by all the groups. it would therefore be pointless to go back to committee, because all the groups, including the group of friends, voted in favour of the vote in the house.
mr president, i wanted to propose that amendments nos 212 to 236 be voted on as a whole. it's all the ones without a name.
mr president, a delay to tomorrow would create difficulties for those of us who have a plane in the early afternoon, because of course the votes are dragging on. moreover, if anyone has problems, he could have thought of that before, as i did, who ate something before coming to the chamber.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the past two years egypt's problems have unfortunately continued to worsen. discrimination and violence against coptic christians and women are on the rise. for the past few days, port sahid has been out of control of the police after the death sentences of 21 fans and sinai is a corridor for uncontrolled arms and human trafficking. fundamentalism is increasingly aggressive towards religious minorities and intolerant in society. the new constitution, with its references to sharia, does not represent the entire egyptian society, much less the youth who fought in tahrir square. relations with israel, traditionally good, are increasingly difficult and undermining the stability of the whole region. this is a good explanation for the lack of foreign investment and the sharp decline in tourism, which is vital to the egyptian economy. this is unfortunately the egypt of the post-mubarak era, the result of many disappointed hopes: i am not going to go into the details of the budget, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the budget. the proposal by lady ashton and commissioner füle for more for more also includes less for less. we are reflecting on what is happening and we are not uncritically and unconditionally supporting a country in which fundamentalism, the denial of our principles and growing instability are spreading. a short question: what is the situation of the trade union forces and their credibility, representativeness and freedom?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, let us put this as it is. egypt is at a crossroads: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we must be fully aware that the road ahead is narrow and full of difficulties, made worse by a very serious economic crisis, and there is no doubt that our task is to ensure support so that the process of democratic transition can achieve the outcome we hope for. it 's true . it takes patience. however, that is precisely why our attitude and the actions we take today are important. i have two immediate questions: the european union is not the only one to have a role to play in this process. what do you plan to do about it? the second point concerns our neighbourhood policy, which must be confirmed. but i ask you whether there is no longer any need to restructure this policy so that it can be more effective and produce tangible and lasting results.
mr president, i have heard many colleagues speaking about egypt and how the arab spring is turning into an islamic winter. i do not agree with their view. this bleak analysis is based on an incorrect understanding of the driving forces at hand in egypt and elsewhere and on unrealistic expectations of a smooth and quick transition. the mistake is to focus exclusively on the strength and intentions of egyptian islamists vis-à-vis the secularists. i am convinced instead that the democratisation of egypt will depend more on the quality of institution-building than on the so-called ‘islamist factor’. therefore, instead of fretting over islamists, we need to have a deeper conception of a political transition in egypt and we should strive to bolster institutions and economic reform. i believe that what the eu has done until now is quite correct and deserves the support of parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, yesterday we approved in this house the report on women in north africa and, in particular, on the countries which have experienced the revolutions known as the 'arab spring'. there is no doubt that all the women in these countries whom we have met in recent months have told us that for them the struggle for democracy and freedom and the struggle for women's rights are one and the same struggle and that this transition is a long and very difficult transition, which still sees them as the protagonists, despite violence, oppression and intimidation. egypt is the only one of the four countries we have looked at, for example, that sees only 2% of women sitting in parliamentary representation, compared to about 19-20% in the other three countries. this speaks volumes about the country's further difficulty: the percentage was imposed by an electoral law, including the previous one, but it is absolutely inadequate. i think we must include in our strategy of 'more for more', in the face of the violence and intimidation that we are witnessing today, two preconditions: the commission is also proposing that women be present at the negotiating table and that attention be paid to certain objectives... (the president interrupts the speaker).
mr president, i share the strong universal condemnation of the latest nuclear threat by north korea. it is a blatant challenge to the non-proliferation regime and, as madam ashton said, a serious threat to lasting peace in the korean peninsula and to security in north-east asia. at the same time, i believe it is the appropriate moment to remember that no nation should own nuclear arms, not iran, not north korea, and not their critics who take the moral high ground. global security cannot be guaranteed by a select club of nuclear powers that retain the privilege to annihilate all. until we overcome this double standard, making the possession of nuclear bombs in itself illegal, we are unlikely to make even minimal progress in this area.
mr president, what is happening in syria today is inconsistent with the maxim that history never repeats itself. an original tragedy that occurred in afghanistan 30 years ago is being repeated today in the shape of an even greater tragedy. i say this because we know from reliable sources that most of the weapons sent to syria by the united states and its allies for the purpose of toppling the assad regime are ending up in the hands of islamist extremists who are just like the afghan mujahideen of the 1980s. we would be kidding ourselves if we thought that any outside player is capable of controlling the ultimate fate of the weapons that it supplies. arming the syrian opposition against a brutal but militarily-strong regime means drastically reducing the chances of a soft landing when assad falls. if he falls, armed opposition will not demobilise, and it is again the afghan lesson that should be learned. after 12 years of war and military occupation, the only solution is still the diplomatic and political one: that is the only solution that should be pursued today.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start by quoting paragraph 24 of this report, which states that 'the trade imbalances between the eu and china reflect their differences in social, economic and democratic models': i think that's the heart of the matter. the european union, however, seems to be merely taking note of this without taking any concrete measures. a few months ago, trade commissioner de gucht said he was not interested in trade wars with china. but perhaps he didn't realize that we are already at war and that what we should be fighting is a war of resistance, to survive and not die. china is hitting us on multiple fronts: as domestic production and exports has no equal; in europe, it has increased direct investment significantly, buying up whole pieces of the economy. it is also making public securities, which also guarantee it a kind of political control. if the chinese citizens themselves are moving, it is like in prato, my city, which is the third largest in europe for chinese presence, after london and paris, infinitely larger metropolises. the prato economy has been almost completely destroyed and the only ones who are able to prosper are precisely them, the new arrivals from china, because they live in illegality and everything is allowed to them. i can 't accept that people here don 't want to do anything . i therefore ask europe to think of a simple and immediate solution, namely the introduction of quotas and trade duties, which are essential to protect our economy, our companies and above all our workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr belder for his report. i am the chairman of the europe-china delegation and i can confirm the will of the new chinese leadership, especially after the 18th congress of the communist party, to improve diplomatic relations and to guarantee greater equality, democracy and freedom. it is clear that, in keeping with the fundamental values of europe, our commitment must be to support, but also to monitor, with respect for each other's autonomy, that this actually happens. defending freedom is and must be a priority for europe. europe-china relations are extremely important, both diplomatically and economically, because while europe's prospects for economic growth remain limited, china's expansion in 2013 will be more than 7% of the combined economies of denmark, sweden and finland. trade between europe and china is worth about 1 billion euros a day and is vital to us. i therefore believe that china's application for market economy status can be accepted if there is greater openness and greater protection of intellectual property on their part. to be clear, i want china to be granted market economy status, but not at zero cost, as when the asian country was allowed to join the world trade organisation without any restrictions. the social and economic crisis that is afflicting the west but also globalization makes us all interconnected and must push us to work together. the economic crisis in europe has also affected the chinese economy and any financial bubbles in china will only harm europe. finally, i hope that there will no longer be only a preferential relationship between the united states and china, but also a strong role for europe, which, by its history, its culture and its firm will to respect its founding values, such as freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, will be able to contribute to the well-being of the world.
mr president, commissioner, there are some issues that divide us from china – first and foremost its political system – but europe shares many things with china and now i want to stress just one element, the rejection of war as an instrument of foreign policy and the peaceful approach to international relations. for more than 25 centuries, war aversion has been a characteristic feature of the chinese mentality and philosophy. europe started to be a peaceful continent after the second world war. europe and china today are powerful peace advocates lowering or containing their military budgets and preferring non-military solutions during international crises. we share with china a non-aggressive approach to global security, respect for multilateral bodies and a non-paranoiac view of world issues. these are big building blocks for a future partnership capable of contributing to security and prosperity on a global scale.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new chinese leadership elected at the recent communist party congress tells us that it is ready for renewal, for reform of the state and for a move towards democracy. we hope that this will happen and we are pushing for it as a union, because we consider china to be an important partner for us. but there are still areas of shadow which we cannot ignore, and i thank the rapporteur for highlighting them. we cannot but be astonished, commissioner, to learn that in china judges are supposed to submit to three authorities, the party, the people and the law, in the order indicated, and that the chinese ministry of justice has established that all lawyers must take an oath of allegiance to the chinese communist party in order to obtain or renew their license to practice. we cannot remain indifferent, mr president, to the tibetan question. we cannot help but notice, ladies and gentlemen, that china is the world's largest emitter of carbon dioxide and that the level of emissions is continuing to rise rapidly. we cannot ignore the fact that freedom of the press and the internet remain a pipe dream. we cannot ignore the difficulties faced by european companies in entering china and facing de facto unfair competition from chinese companies in our internal market. we still have a lot of work to do to improve our relationship, but that's why we're here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too could speak about how china can be a strategic partner for europe from a trade point of view. i would also like to speak about unfair competition or the lack of reciprocity, or perhaps, as other colleagues have done, i could speak about the one-child policy, forced abortions, the death penalty. in fact, i would just like to remind you this evening that sunday, 10 march, marked the 54th anniversary of the lhasa uprising against the chinese communist regime's occupation of tibet. china continues to commit serious violations of human rights and minority rights. my speech is really just to remind you that since 2009, 107 young monks have set themselves on fire to protest chinese repression.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the great importance of a strategic partnership between the european union and china today, a partnership which can become a response to the economic problems caused by the onset of the current financial crisis which has affected our producers and consumers. but we must not forget that this partnership must guarantee common interests, which can only be achieved by respecting shared and applied rules. it is true of trade, where without reciprocity the competitiveness of our productive sector and consequently the freedom of our consumers would be undermined, as it is true of social policy choices. we cannot open our markets and promote integration with china unless it first gives us signs of social progress: in china, there are still concentration camps, laogai, which exploit the labor force for industrial production. women are forced into inhuman practices such as abortion or forced sterilization; the european union has been pressing for a new round of economic and monetary union, and the european union has been pressing for a new round of economic and monetary union. the report opens up a new road and we hope that it can be a basis for future reflection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that i am speaking on behalf of my colleague who was unable to be present at the debate. i would also like to thank commissioners reding and füle for their work on the cooperation and verification mechanism, which i consider an important step towards the definition of a common european judicial system. i welcome the latest commission report which highlights important positive aspects but also, unfortunately, some weaknesses, especially on the transparency of the judicial system. i believe that the criticisms described by the commission should be a challenge and an opportunity for the romanian government and i would also like to stress that there is no connection between this useful monitoring instrument and romania's accession to the schengen area, for which it has already met the technical requirements. the commission's recommendations are intended only to guide the government's work towards building a judicial system that is as modern and efficient as possible.
mr president, i read the last cvm report on progress on romania and i was appalled by the paragraph on the independence of the judiciary. the report blames the government of romania for the pressure placed on judicial institutions by the romanian press and invites the romanian government to take action against the press. i am appalled, because it is simply unacceptable that the government of a democratic country would even think of putting limitations on the freedom of press. your report basically accused the romanian media of doing their job. they dare to criticise the judiciary – it is a normal fact in every democracy. the commission claims to have received complaints from romanian individuals who, instead of using their legal instruments to safeguard their rights, go to the eu and ask it to press the romanian government to reduce one of the fundamental civil liberties.
mr president, ms băsescu said that i have a special link with mr ponta, the prime minister of romania, so i would like to clarify that point with her by pointing out to her that, as the daughter of the president of romania, she is the last person to ask a question like that.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on a measure of extraordinary importance, relating to an area which is very close to the heart of the european parliament. the social economy is a crucial element for the identity and sustainability of the european social model. the social economy, and in particular the mutual funds, by combining profitability and solidarity, play a key role, creating quality jobs and local employment, generating social capital and promoting active citizenship. a welfare based on solidarity is a type of economy that respects democratic values, putting the human person first. in the face of the challenges posed by the economic and financial crisis, mutual societies are providing vital and sustainable responses to growth, employment and social cohesion by providing affordable healthcare, social services and insurance to over 160 million european citizens, creating an estimated 350 000 jobs and helping to identify concrete solutions to reform welfare systems and the social economy. all of this deserves recognition and political investment. the fundamental theme of europe at this moment is growth, which is being invoked by everyone. there can be no growth without the contribution of the social economy, which is an essential part of it. if we are calling for growth, we cannot ignore this sector, which is why i am calling for a general value for a particular sector such as the social economy and therefore for recognition throughout europe. mutual funds have a role to play in these challenges alongside the private sector and must be able to compete on equal terms with other forms of enterprise in the union, which the existing european statutes, such as the cooperative and the european company statutes, cannot exhaust due to differences in governance models. and here we come to the second aspect, the second central theme of europe today, which is its integration, its march towards political unity and its enlargement of the internal market. in this respect too, today's measure emphasizes a general value, which comes from the field of mutual funds and thus acquires relevance for the whole of europe. parliament has already supported the european commission's efforts to adopt a regulation on the statute of the european mutual fund. after the impasse in the council and the withdrawal of the commission's first proposal, we are now again calling for a legal instrument for mutual societies to facilitate their crossborder activities and complete the internal market, and we are calling on the commission to proceed decisively in this direction after parliament's decision today. we will continue to press, together with the whole world of mutual aid, this house, this parliament, to ensure that the european institutions are the bearers of the desired result. the proposed european statute therefore constitutes a voluntary instrument supplementary to the existing national rules applicable to mutual societies and would therefore not affect the existing statutes but would rather constitute a twenty-eighth regime which would make it easier for mutual societies to engage in cross-border activities.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank you for giving me this opportunity to participate in this interesting discussion on the subject of promoting mutual societies. as i said in my introductory statement, not all the countries of europe have a mutualist tradition. clearly, this means that we have to consider ways of coping with the challenges faced by mutualist societies wishing to trade beyond their national borders. the most popular idea put forward is to adopt a statute for a european mutual society, so as to expand the mutualist movement in europe. nevertheless, it is important, at the same time, to enhance the visibility of the movement and not to neglect efforts to improve understanding of the way it operates. the results of the consultation which we launched will constitute the basis for thorough consideration of the need for, and thrust of, new policy initiatives and of the need for a proposal to introduce a european study. let me say that, for the commission, the european statute remains a viable option. i would like to ask all mutualist organisations to reply to the consultation questionnaire. the commission will certainly also draw on the berlinguer report and the contributions made by all the honourable members, whose pleas i will convey to commissioner tajani.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank not only all my colleagues for their contribution but especially commissioner vassiliou, who represents the whole commission here and who has spoken out clearly in favour of the statute. we're all about that. in the past there has been a back and forth on this subject between parliament and the commission. the situation has changed. the new states which have entered europe do not have what the more western states had built and feel even more than before, not opposition to the idea of the statute, but greater openness to this idea. so the mood in the council can change. the important thing is that we first of all abandon the obsession with austerity, which has brought europe to its knees. secondly, the obsession with economic rationalism which denies, i don't say kahneman, i don't say the happiness economy, but certainly the solidarity economy, which is a real economic component and not just an invention of the good heart of those who have a sensitivity for the poor: it is a precise economic tool, without which we will not have the growth we need. so this is a fixed point. the chairman of the empl committee and we of the juri committee are calling on our friend tajani to: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament is not in a position to vote on the report. this is a new development and we need the statute. we strongly urge you to march in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also thank the commissioner for what he said in this house this morning and for the action he has taken and intends to take in the future. it's a very important issue that we're discussing today: sport is born as a healthy confrontation between people and peoples. the ancient games even had a sacred character. wars were stopped, unlike today, and fought with strength, with courage, after hard training and winning a medal was the award for being the best, the best, not for the one who had cheated the best, not for the one who had corrupted the opponent. we know today that better coordination between national authorities and police forces is needed, but we also know that this measure alone is not and will not be enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's sporting activities are not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of sport. the resolution of parliament sets out a number of points and initiatives to be taken: the important thing is to do it quickly, because the number of games being rigged is increasing, the dissatisfaction among the people is increasing; young people grow up with a misconception of society, because sports teach you to live by the rules and win and it's who's the best that's established, not who has the most money to cheat better. so, commissioner, we really must hurry. we are working on this because if sport is corrupted, it will be harder to build a better society and it will be even harder to explain to our young people why it is worthwhile to strive for something that is right. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, i also agree with my colleague on the initiative not to abolish wrestling, which is one of the oldest disciplines and best expresses the concept of sport in its ethical sense, beyond physical contact. we must therefore always be very careful about how sport is marketed, what the real purpose of sponsorship in sport is, and i think this is the privileged place to be able to talk about it and to find solutions, since we are 27 countries here - or rather, 28 soon - which therefore bring together different experiences but which can also make an important contribution to how to solve this problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that sport is a means of bringing people together and of participation. sport is first and foremost a teaching of values and rules to our young people in particular. sport is healthy and fair competition between athletes who want to beat their opponent on a level playing field and according to established rules. the integrity of sport, however, is being challenged, for example, by doping, another deplorable way of distorting healthy competition, and then by match-fixing, by corruption in sport. today, however, sport is unfortunately a business, and illegal betting is worth about 100 billion euros in wagers a year, a huge figure that should make us all think very hard. corruption is often fuelled by illegal gambling havens in asia and is fuelled by money laundering, which is also often in the hands of organised crime. these are very often transnational crimes, so not only is police judicial cooperation unnecessary, it is absolutely necessary, europol is important, eurojust is important and an agile and streamlined european public prosecutor's office will be important to thwart these crimes. but more prevention and more cooperation are needed. the match-fixing, but also the racial discrimination against black players and the lack of cooperation between the bodies and federations are pathologies of a sick system, which must be cured and cured quickly, because let us remember - i am also a rapporteur for the crim committee - that the role models for young people are still very often, mr president, the great athletes of sport, so we must recover the symbolic value of clean and vigorous sport. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i would like to reassure mrs bozkurt that this segment of activity linked to match-fixing is not confined to football. we remember that the first experiences were with baseball 100 years ago, so it is a phenomenon that goes back in time. we also believe that judicial cooperation in this area can be a buffer against a phenomenon which is still widespread. i therefore welcome the invitation from mrs bozkurt and assure her that this discipline will be sufficiently defined, also in the final and interim reports on organised crime, corruption and money laundering.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, cotton is a truly unique product. it's a raw material that's indispensable, that we wear every day: it's almost like a second skin. it is a product which we import and export in europe, which unfortunately involves a lot of child labour in developing countries, and we can recall that parliament refused to include a textile protocol in the trade agreement with uzbekistan, given the massive use of children in cotton harvesting in that country. it is a product that has a considerable, sometimes devastating, environmental impact with pesticides, insecticides and a huge use of water, which is necessary for the cultivation of the plantations, which also has remarkable, though small for the moment, examples of good fair and solidarity-based trade practices, which gives jobs to entire countries that depend on cotton - bangladesh, uzbekistan - but also to our textile industry, and which involves a very complex chain of responsibility, made up of producers, wholesalers, traders, brands, industries, consumers, even advertisers. it is therefore a product which needs a role for the legislator, for the government, for a system. and that is what i think our discussion should be focused on. we have the tools at our disposal today, as the commissioner has pointed out: the european union must first of all join the international cotton advisory committee, which is a gap that must be filled. secondly, we are working together on specific clauses in the economic partnership and free trade agreements. thirdly, we are working on new rules for granting the system of generalised preferences, subject to good governance and compliance with international conventions on labour and the environment. finally, we need constant monitoring, including through systematic partnership with un bodies such as unicef or the international labour organization. finally, we must find the link in a virtuous chain, remembering the un global compact and remembering that cotton was also synonymous with slavery. in the 21st century, we would like it to be synonymous with development.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union has asked to become a single member of the icac, which includes countries such as uzbekistan. this parliament has always fought for transparency and reciprocity in trade practices, for the respect of rules governing our relations with third countries, which are our economic competitors, in a sector such as cotton, where there is a strong discrepancy between the increase in production and the marketing. the union and its member states are key players in the global cotton economy, just think of the european textile sector and the difficulties encountered in the production chains due to dumping and low labour costs. the aim of the resolution, the result of bipartisan work, is to highlight some of these unresolved issues so that the icac can finally address them. these issues are the fight against market-distorting measures, the creation of better conditions for small producers in developing countries, increased transparency to reduce price volatility and speculation, and supporting the importance of the traceability of cotton fibres, avoiding unilateral measures such as export bans and strongly and drastically condemning the use of forced child labour in cotton fields, which is still a plague that afflicts us and which sees no different future; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. we call on the commission, once again in a bipartisan way, to speak out in the icca for greater control and guarantee of every stage of processing and we call for china to participate in the joint forums on strategic international production sectors such as cotton, if it really wants to be a player in a free and competitive market and not just deal with counterfeiting and illegal production systems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is our duty to express our best wishes to our colleague the vice-president for yesterday's incident, to express our utmost solidarity with the members of the greek delegation and to respond to the request made by president schulz yesterday after the incident to reflect on how we are going to conduct our work when there is a huge number of votes. i think it does not take a scientist to say that we could move the voting to 10 o'clock and proceed calmly at a time other than the typical lunchtime. i would also say that everyone was concerned that in an institution like this, which has more than 2 000 staff in strasbourg and many more in brussels, there is no fixed ambulance ready to respond, no emergency medical team near the chamber, and no defibrillators. so, speaking of security, i would remind the presidency that mrs zanicchi has recently been locked in an elevator for three and a half hours without security being able to intervene.
mr president, i wonder if this report is a case of unintentional humour, in the sense that, as we all know, there was an asbestos leak in the european parliament last week. it is ridiculous that we should be giving directions to the member states and not being able to comply with the rules ourselves, as the european parliament. (applause from the left)
mr president, racism today takes many different forms, often masked. unfortunately, however, many political forces or movements, more or less openly racist, are gaining ground in europe, in the member states and in many elected assemblies. the attention for this must remain high, very high. we call on the commission and the council to do their part by drawing up an effective european strategy to combat all forms of racism in all its forms. we call for a revision of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia to include grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. the european parliament will certainly do its part. for example, i and many other colleagues have signed the proposal to submit to the committee responsible for the matter the continuation of funding for two european political foundations which, in our view, do not respect the principles of freedom and democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. we will also continue to work and intensify our efforts against racism and xenophobia for a better europe and a better world.
in writing. the process of democratization initiated by the north african countries through revolution can only be achieved through full respect for and protection of human rights and therefore of the rights of women and children. europe must accompany the countries of the mediterranean spring on this new path of freedom, the outcome of which is still uncertain: the transition process is still ongoing and progress is being met with dangerous setbacks as a result of violence and intimidation that have subjected many women to double victimization. women have been the protagonists: they have taken to the streets, they have demonstrated, and it is important that they can now actively participate in the drafting of new constitutions, so that women's rights and gender equality are recognized in them. i would like to underline the eu's strong commitment to supporting african countries in the fight against female genital mutilation.
in writing. − i support this report because it emphasises the importance of women’s participation, in particular young women, during the arab spring. women played a fundamental role during the demonstrations, taking an active part in civil society, in the social media and on blogs. therefore they have been, and still are, key players in democratic change in their countries and in strengthening development and cohesion. i believe that the renewed eu neighbourhood policy should place greater emphasis on gender equality, empowerment of women and support for civil society. with this report we are stressing that the ongoing transitions in north africa will lead to democratic political systems only if there is gender equality, and no justification anymore for discrimination or violence of any kind against women or girls on grounds of culture, tradition or religion.
in writing. the constitutional process under way in tunisia, libya, egypt and morocco, at different stages and with different aspects, will probably mark the prospects for democratic development in these societies for the next few decades. and certainly the prospects of complete emancipation of women in these countries may be set on a positive path or suffer a setback which, we do not yet know how or when, may be called into question. it is therefore essential that the european union acts now, with the instruments that belong to it, first of all with the european neighbourhood policy, to support the efforts of those thousands of women who have mobilized in these years, before, during and after the arab spring. the resolution we have adopted today is a testament to the commitment of the european parliament, in accordance with its prerogatives, to continue to support these women. it is important that the member states and the commission do the same. more cooperation, joint work programmes, constant monitoring of political and legislative developments. this is what we are asking for, this is what north african women need.
in writing. - i voted against the costa report on the situation of women in north africa.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the situation of women in north africa, as i believe it is essential to recommend that north african countries adopt laws prohibiting all forms of violence against women, especially the practice of female genital mutilation. it is also necessary to introduce measures to guarantee women greater economic independence, which will allow them real emancipation and, consequently, reduce the poverty rate. promoting the presence of women in the electoral process is a key factor; the authorities of the countries concerned should therefore incorporate the right of women to participate in the electoral process into their constitutions. in this respect, close cooperation is needed between the eu and the national governments of the north african countries, which in turn can draw on the electoral systems used by the european union to ensure greater participation of women in decision-making.
in writing. − the eu has a role to play in supporting the building of democratic regimes and the socioeconomic development of its neighbours, and the eu must not forget that there is no true democracy that does not take half the population into account. i agree that women and women's organisations must be involved in the negotiation process with the authorities when setting priorities and programmes under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) and i voted in favour of the proposal as i believe that gender equality and women's rights must be among the eu's priorities.
in writing. − the battles for gender equality that have taken place over the decades within the countries now members of the european union have undoubtedly brought about important results and many more will follow through the union's social policies. it is time for the commission to support the implementation of the same policies in neighbouring countries, such as those in africa. as early as late 2010, revolutionary protests, which were then channeled into the so-called "arab spring", helped achieve regime change and constitutional revisions. the role of women, at least in law, has gradually changed and has become more and more important and protected, especially in countries such as tunisia, egypt, morocco and libya. however, the persistence of old regimes and a traditional perception of the role of women have hampered the correct application of the legislation. it should be noted that women's participation in political life is still low and the outcome of the current battles for women's rights is uncertain. in this context, it is desirable that the european union should act to help the countries of north africa channel the right intentions towards the building of democratic regimes and towards socioeconomic development. that is why i am in favour of it.
in writing. - i support the report by mr tirolien on the financing of european union cooperation with african, caribbean, pacific and overseas territories states for the period 2014-2020. the european development fund (edf) is the main instrument for cooperation with the acp states and i believe that the amendments to its rules will ensure that in future it can be more oriented towards solving the problems of poverty and the dependence of the people on external aid, focusing instead on the restoration of their economic and social fabric.
in writing. the report of the french member for guadeloupe strongly supports the financing of the 11th edf (european development fund). the edf is the main instrument of community aid for development cooperation with the acp states and the overseas countries and territories (octs). the main objectives of the european development policy (article 208 tfeu) are the reduction and progressive eradication of poverty as provided for in the cotonou agreement. the report, given the proposed improvements for the new edf, has my support.
in writing. - considering that the legal basis of the european development fund (edf) is the council's internal agreement and that this partnership agreement between the acp states on the one hand and the european community and its member states on the other, signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000 (the cotonou agreement), constitutes the conventional basis of our cooperation with the acp countries and agreeing that the implementation of regional cooperation should be facilitated by simplifying procedures and seeking synergies between cooperation programmes supported by the various financial instruments of the union, i voted in favour of the proposal, although i had reservations on some points.
in writing. − the proposal for a decision on the overseas association was approved by the commission on 16 july 2012 and is currently being negotiated in the council. this includes the design of the multiannual financial framework for the financing of eu cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific states and overseas countries and territories. the objectives of this planning are, inter alia, the progressive reduction and consequent elimination of poverty in these territories and the economic and social development of the octs. the commission has proposed full budgetisation of the edf from 2021 onwards and a maximum total amount to be allocated to the 11th edf, which will also include an allocation for each acp country, irrespective of its level of development. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's resolution on the european council conclusions on the multiannual financial framework because i believe it is essential that this house express its own position on a subject so crucial for the future of the union, although unfortunately it is unsatisfactory in several respects. parliament rightly rejects the council's position, calling for greater involvement in the decision-making process to ensure genuine democratic representation. in particular, it is desirable to increase the flexibility of the financial framework itself, so as to allow for adjustments and corrections 'in progress' should urgent difficulties arise, such as those we have seen in previous years. we must learn from past mistakes to be more courageous and more timely. i particularly appreciate the strong call for an increase in the own resources available to the eu, although it would have been appropriate to specify better how these resources can be recovered, by outlining a strategy that would give a sign of discontinuity with the strict austerity policies implemented so far. it is now up to the european council to take parliament's views and suggestions into account, showing a willingness to cooperate and a genuine community spirit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution in response to the conclusions of the european council last february on the multiannual financial framework. the council had requested a reduction in the commitments of the european budget for the next seven years (2014-2020) of 8% - compared to the european commission's 2012 proposal. considering the current financial programming period (2007 - 2013), we are faced with a decrease of about 5%. the council did not consider that, in the current economic crisis, it was necessary to increase the overall budget of the union in order to finance important multiannual programmes in the fields of competitiveness, growth and education. the european budget must not be based on a short-term vision but on the long-term economic recovery, avoiding a further increase in the european deficit. in doing so, the european council is deliberately violating the treaty of lisbon by not respecting the european parliament's co-decision role in the community budget-making process. the resolution which i supported with my vote gives parliament a stronger bargaining power vis-à-vis the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the european parliament following the european council conclusions of 7 and 8 february 2013 on the multiannual financial framework as they do not reflect the priorities set for the seven-year period 2014-2020. i support the idea of finding a fair compromise with the council to ensure that the community budget is able to ensure the best possible implementation of the europe 2020 strategy by increasing investment in innovation, research and development. we strongly urge that we be equal players in the final decision on the european budget. it is not possible to adopt a budget with a view to restricting resources in an economic context in which the revival of growth and development is becoming a priority objective. i hope that a balance can be found between parliament and the council which sees as its final result the full satisfaction of an economic recovery which europe needs now more than ever.
in writing. - with this vote we wanted to send a strong signal of commitment and hope. on the one hand it is true that in a period of general austerity we cannot expect more, but on the other hand we must not allow resignation to prevail. parliament had set out clear priorities, which were to promote greater growth and development. the council decided instead to "snap out of it", with no prospects for the future: i am aware that europe too must adapt to the crisis situation, but i do not think it can give up the necessary impetus. infrastructure, energy, research, employment, immigration and agriculture are areas where the european union has great responsibilities and must therefore have the appropriate instruments to do so. we cannot accept that austerity rules should prevail in europe, after we have seen the damage it has done in the countries where it has been applied, starting with italy. what we are asking for is european financial planning that is not utopian, but not insufficient, and above all that parliament's voice be heard, which carries the voice and the alarm cries of the european citizens who elected it.
in writing. the rejection of the european budget is a strong signal to all governments: the way out of the crisis is through more modern economic planning. it is not possible at a time like this to sign an agreement which does not invest in growth and jobs. we are too far from expectations and cannot afford to take a step back that would make no sense. this proposal cuts all investment in research and innovation, youth employment, education and mobility.
in writing. - as regards the negotiations on the planning and approval of the mff, parliament expressed its full willingness to open full-scale negotiations with the council on matters of particular relevance, with a view to achieving a budget that meets the current needs of the member states and stimulates the growth of an economy in crisis, while ensuring compliance with the europe 2020 strategy. first of all, transparency on the political agreement on the mff is required in terms of both expenditure and revenue, as well as more information on the size of the national appropriations established under the cohesion and agricultural policies. in this resolution, parliament also expressed its negative opinion on the accumulation and deferral of unpaid payment claims for 2013, calling for these to be paid by the end of the current financial year. finally, i would like to stress the real desire to reach agreement on a reform of the system of own resources, pointing out that the financing of the union budget should be based on actual own resources, as provided for in the treaty. i therefore express a favourable opinion of this resolution.
in writing. - i supported the bowles report on the 'proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european system of national and regional accounts in the european union'. this regulation lays down the rules to be used for compiling and publishing the reporting data which will then be compared with those of all member states in order to assess and monitor the real economic situation in the eu. i believe that it is essential to have reliable, reliable and comparable data on the economic structure and development of the economies of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs bowles' report because i think it best addresses and expresses the need to provide ever clearer and more consistent data on the national and regional accounts of the member states. in particular, the regulation lays down rules for the compilation and publication of key macroeconomic data in the eu. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. producing timely macroeconomic data based on reliable criteria is essential to be able to conduct accurate analyses and avoid inappropriate readings.
in writing. − whereas much of european legislation takes the form of directives setting general standards and objectives, leaving the choice of how to achieve these objectives to the member states and local and regional authorities, and whereas the lack of accurate information and knowledge on the state of implementation and quantitative data concerning various environmental sectors hinders the proper implementation of the environmental acquis; i believe that regional and local authorities can strengthen the sense of cooperation and ensure better implementation of legislation in the formulation of eu environmental policies, and i voted in favour of the proposal, although i do not fully agree with all the points.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr bowles, as it seeks to identify rules for the compilation and publication of reporting data which will then be compared between the various member states in order to assess and monitor the economic reality of the union. these rules will ensure and increase the transparency of public accounts and improve the accessibility of information. in addition, member states will have to provide eurostat with information on their budgets and on the debt of public enterprises, the level of guarantees provided to public entities and pension obligations.
in writing. the proposed regulation provides for a more detailed european system of regional and national accounts for the european union and sets out uniform rules for the compilation of key macroeconomic data. this makes the data easier and more uniquely interpretable in comparisons between member states' economies. the problem of the cost of adopting the new procedure was raised, but parliament thought that the problem could be solved by means of automated systems that collect data in real time. the proposed amendments also aim to ensure that the information is more complete and more accurate, so that data can be obtained that are truly comparable, with reduced discretion, particularly for the public sector, so that the user can easily make use of the data. it also provides that the commission (eurostat) is to report regularly to parliament on the quality of data relating to national and regional accounts. on these grounds, i am in favour.
in writing. − this regulation lays down the rules to be followed for the compilation and publication of key macroeconomic data in the european union. the information provided must be as complete as possible and ensure maximum transparency, in particular as regards the public sector, in order to inform european citizens in the best possible way. i consider the concerns of the member states about possible administrative burdens to be well founded and therefore welcome the idea of opting, where possible, for the use of automated methods which allow real-time data collection.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of mrs berès' report on flag state responsibility. although i believe it is important to improve the working conditions of seafarers on european ships, i consider that the nature of the measures proposed by parliament are disproportionate. on the one hand, they seem to be a way of forcing all member countries to ratify the maritime labour convention of 2006, and on the other, they impose surveillance measures that could lead to a paralysis of maritime trade.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention (mlc) signed in 2008 is about to be implemented into european law, providing for national enforcement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in addition, a maritime labour certification and a maritime labour declaration of conformity for each ship and close monitoring by flag states are provided for. the convention also ensures safe and uniform working conditions in all member states, marking a major step forward in this field. that is why i am in favour of it.
in writing. − the jensen report sets out the guidelines for the 2014 budget with the european parliament's priorities. i particularly agree with the text in that it analyses the importance of the eu budget for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, identifying the key areas on which it should focus: education, research and innovation, support for smes, entrepreneurship and employment, with particular attention to young people. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2014 budget, section iii, as a proper definition of the 2014 budget will be crucial to lay the foundations for future economic growth that can lead to greater competitiveness, youth employment and development. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the eu budget is an indispensable lever for economic growth, and inadequate funds could jeopardise the development of the eu's entire economy and the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the financing system for the eu budget is closely linked to national treasuries, and this represents a limitation, especially in times of crisis and budgetary constraints at national level. a reform of the union's revenue system is therefore essential to ensure that the european budget is more autonomous and, through enhanced synergy with national budgets, to promote the effective implementation of political commitments and priorities, as well as sustainable growth that supports education, innovation, infrastructure, smes and sustainable development as a whole.
in writing. - the economic situation in the european union is worrying. our economies have not yet recovered from the crisis and the downward spiral has not yet stopped. the european union has a duty to implement measures for growth and the role of the eu budget is crucial. parliament could not help but reject a draft budget which provided for cuts in expenditure in crucial areas such as research and development and education rather than fostering a genuine process of growth on a european scale. no more downside tradeoffs. we must now boost growth in europe and reduce unemployment. we have waited a long time for the european parliament to have a role in the process of adopting the eu budget. today parliament has sent an unmistakable signal in support of european citizens and businesses.
in writing. - the aim of today's vote is to break the vicious circle of the payment deficit: the unpaid invoices for 2012 and 2013 should not be carried over to the budget for the following year because 2014 - the first year of the new multiannual framework - must be able to start without a deficit contrary to european law. the accumulated year-on-year debt reached an unprecedented level of over eur 217 billion at the end of 2012: the commission must now commit itself to presenting a draft amending budget for last year's invoices by the end of this month at the latest, to ensure that the budget negotiations for next year are not compromised.
in writing. − as regards the regulation on the next multiannual financial framework, an opinion is being prepared on the budgetary forecasts and general guidelines for 2014, taking due account of the inherent needs arising from the financial crisis, which should spur and support member states towards a new economic growth that involves a reduction in youth unemployment and the revival of employment. in order to avoid the inconveniences already experienced in the past due to incorrect expenditure forecasts, it is desirable to make more careful planning and to adopt realistic and adequate estimates, which are as transparent as possible as to the use of the funds available. 2014 will also be a year of transition between two multiannual financial programming periods and for this very reason it will be helpful and essential to look at what was previously achieved with the last multiannual plan in order to obtain a more comprehensive overview of the projects to be implemented under the new mff. the latter will have to be based on the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on the so-called knowledge triangle (education, research, innovation) but giving particular attention to the development of small businesses, the use of renewable energy and sustainable development. i am in favour of these general guidelines.
in writing. − the 2014 budget, with the financial crisis still ongoing and the difficulties in finding a satisfactory agreement for all, will be drawn up in a context of great uncertainty. it is for these reasons that we must avoid the mistakes of the past and provide for an adequate and realistic level of payment appropriations. moreover, it is essential to base the union budget for 2014 on what has not been done so far, namely measures to support competitiveness and economic growth while boosting employment and combating youth unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the composition of the european parliament for the 2014 elections because the solution proposed by the rapporteurs for the allocation of seats reflects proportionally the size of the populations of the member states. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has played a central role as co-legislator with the council, particularly in defining the multiannual financial framework, which is essential for implementing the european union's policies of economic growth and development. the european parliament is the european institution representing 500 million citizens. the elected parliamentarians must be able to exercise their mandate in defence of the rights of their fellow citizens and to express their needs in accordance with balanced criteria of representation which promote the economic and social cohesion of the territories.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, rejoicing at the new colleagues from 12 observer countries who will soon be welcomed to the chamber, at croatia becoming an effective member on 1 july 2013 and, last but not least, at the unchanging number of meps who will represent italy in 2014: it wasn't a foregone conclusion. some states will have to give up some of their members: the biggest loser will be germany, which will go from its current 99 to 96. i also welcome the adoption by the european commission of a recommendation which gives the political parties in our parliament the opportunity to nominate a candidate for the presidency of the european commission, because this is the path of electoral democracy that the european citizens are asking for.
in writing. - with this document we have managed to reach a compromise to respect the limit of 751 members set by the lisbon treaty and at the same time allow the arrival of members from croatia. in this way no country will lose more than one member and no country will gain more.
in writing. − the next term of the european parliament will begin in 2014, and the composition of the european parliament will need to be redrawn in view of the accession of croatia, which currently has only 12 observers. these observers will be replaced by the same number of meps in 2014. moreover, with the current derogation from article 14 (2) of the treaty on european union (teu), the european parliament will, as of 2014, be composed of 751 members - compared to the current 754 - with the consequence that it is essential to think about a reorganisation and a redistribution of seats between member states, the total number of seats having to be reduced with the simultaneous introduction of 12 new seats. parliament will then have to submit a draft to the european council on the way in which seats will be redistributed. there have been many speculations in this respect, whether the criterion of degressive proportionality should be respected, or alternatively, the introduction of the 'fixed + support' method which would allocate six seats to each state, with the addition of a proportional criterion. i am in favour of the proposal to minimise the loss to the member states, while respecting the principle of proportionality as much as possible, by first redistributing seats between countries and then politically reallocating them.
in writing. − spirit drinks are classified into categories on the basis of the definitions set out in annex ii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008. in this way, the traditional nature of their composition and their particular recipes is ensured, while respecting regional characteristics based on the availability of ingredients. however, in the case of absinthe spirit, strict classification and definition of ingredients would not specifically respect the specificity of the production and therefore i am opposed to a regulation imposing restrictions in this respect. it would also be more appropriate to have a regulation which regulates regional specificities instead. i therefore oppose the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending annexes ii and iii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and the protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mandate for negotiations on the resolution by mr capoulas santos because i believe that it is necessary to give a strong signal of parliament's unity, to enable this institution to negotiate with greater strength and credibility with the council. in view of the many controversial points in this report, i believe that the long work carried out in the commission has led to a satisfactory result overall. the forecasts for crop diversification take due account of the size of the area under cultivation itself, reducing the burden on farmers, as well as the obligation to implement the new greening measures applicable only to large plots. i agree with the choice to leave it to the discretion of the member states to implement the small farmers scheme and all the rules relating to it, especially as regards payments, with the possibility therefore of taking due account of local peculiarities. the proposal to revise the lists of beneficiaries, so that the funds are allocated to those who actually carry out agricultural activities, and excluding those, in particular bodies and legal persons, who continue to benefit from aid because of a situation that is no longer current, is also very positive.
in writing. - among the issues we are voting on in this plenary, this is probably the most sensitive in terms of political communication: we often hear citizens scold us when we go around the country because almost half of the eu budget is allocated to a small minority of european entrepreneurs. i voted for this mandate because i have confidence in my colleagues who will go and negotiate the details. i am sure they will be able to bring back a measure on which the citizens can agree. i am in favour of direct payments that reward quality, environmental sustainability and food safety, for the benefit of all final customers, and therefore all citizens. i do not want to see any mechanisms that reward the cunning, nor political solutions that defend the interests of some territories at the expense of others. what i am asking my colleagues to do is to negotiate not with slogans but with a view to designing a sector which is both effective today and far-sighted for future generations. this confidence is also based on the work done in the commission, and i particularly agree with the definition of 'active farmer' and the amendments to the 'greening' rules.
in writing. - one of the main objectives of this cap reform is to reduce administrative burdens. and this is a fundamental point which, in my view, qualifies the importance of this negotiating mandate. reform is an important tool. europe must invest in food security while ensuring the competitiveness of the agricultural sector on a global scale. i believe that there is still much to be done for a more sustainable approach, but today is the first vote on a negotiating mandate. we must therefore move forward with greater emphasis on the protection of small producers, organic farming and a more environmentally friendly cap. many of these points are still open and we will have to work hard to make, i believe, further progress which is absolutely essential to have a balanced framework in line with the real needs of our agricultural market.
in writing. - i welcome today's vote on the reform of the common agricultural policy; the approach adopted and approved by the european parliament's agriculture committee last january has been confirmed. this is the end of a long and difficult process that started in october 2011 when we received the legislative proposals from the european commission. in view of the initial proposal and the criticisms that have emerged, i would say that the result achieved is positive and shows our commitment to modifying the commission proposal taking into account the italian context, specificities and interests, making the cap more flexible and less bureaucratic, protecting businesses and farmers' incomes on the one hand and food quality and safety on the other. the vote also has a symbolic value: for the first time thanks to the changes introduced in 2009 by the lisbon treaty the european parliament, the only democratically elected institution, has had an active and decisive role. we are therefore entering the trilogue phase with the council and the commission with the aim and the hope of reaching an agreement leading to the final approval of the new common agricultural policy.
in writing. − the cap for the period 2014/2020 is a major challenge for european agriculture. much has changed for what has always been considered the quintessential european policy. the objectives and objectives have changed over time and an increasingly diverse global context has made the cap a policy that has adapted to the challenges of the moment, always ensuring that european farmers receive important support for their activities and for what their work represents in our civil society. my support for this report is a further indication of my unwavering commitment to farmers and their families, whose work must always be recognized and rewarded.
mr president, i would like to emphasize that this is the first time that parliament has been called upon to decide on the reform of the cap with full legislative powers. there are many factors at play, and it is difficult to strike a balance, but i think that the starting point for negotiations with the member states and the commission at the end of march and the beginning of april is a good basis. i would like to stress the intention of parliament to de-bureaucratize as much as possible everything that concerns the cap: it is absurd, for example, that farmers have to go through paperwork every year! we think that only when there are changes should the farmer apply for aid. i also think that it is important and fundamental, not only for the agricultural sector, which also has very impressive figures - 12 million enterprises, 10 million employees - but for all citizens, especially in this context. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mandate for negotiations on mr dantin's report in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy because i agree with the particular emphasis on the specific features of the agri-food sector, which must be properly protected. i particularly appreciate the attention paid to crops which represent points of excellence for italian and european reality in general, such as oil and wine, for which the rights are extended until 2030, compared to what was originally proposed by the commission. the strong call for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure strong coordination at community level to make the work of the various national supervisory authorities more consistent, in order to achieve clear definition of crucial terms such as 'relevant market share' and 'dominant position', is also shared.
in writing. - i am proud to have voted for a more efficient common agricultural policy. in times of crisis, it is even more important to allocate public funds wisely, because every euro saved can be used for other spending or projects that can revive the economy. and without taking away from the very work done by distribution, rebalancing the agricultural value chain in favour of producers can make for significant reductions in appropriations by the community institutions. it is with this objective in mind that i voted for my colleagues to have the mandate to negotiate. the cap i have in mind should enable european households to find cheap food without producers being choked by quotas and the surplus should be distributed more evenly. let me be clear: i believe in the market, but when you decide to alter some mechanisms, you have to think of ways to compensate those who are consequently doing us harm. i am particularly pleased that the concept of traceability for fruit and vegetables has been introduced, which was not included in the commission's original proposal.
in writing. - i welcome today's vote on the reform of the common agricultural policy; the approach adopted and approved by the european parliament's agriculture committee last january has been confirmed. this is the end of a long and difficult process that started in october 2011 when we received the legislative proposals from the european commission. in view of the initial proposal and the criticisms that have emerged, i would say that the result achieved is positive and shows our commitment to modifying the commission proposal taking into account the italian context, specificities and interests, making the cap more flexible and less bureaucratic, protecting businesses and farmers' incomes on the one hand and food quality and safety on the other. the vote also has a symbolic value: for the first time thanks to the changes introduced in 2009 by the lisbon treaty the european parliament, the only democratically elected institution, has had an active and decisive role. we are therefore entering the trilogue phase with the council and the commission with the aim and the hope of reaching an agreement leading to the final approval of the new common agricultural policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mandate for negotiations on the report by mr capoulas santos because i appreciate the improvements that have been made in the operation of the rural development fund. among the most significant points, i consider it a success to have included the role of women in rural areas in the list of thematic programmes available to the member states and the maintenance of forestry policy management at national level, thus safeguarding the protection of specific local needs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also strengthens the role of the european parliament to decide, through this regulation, and not through implementing rules signed by the commission, how to divide the funds available between the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mandate to open interinstitutional negotiations on this dossier because i am convinced that the colleagues in charge will do an excellent job in defence of the citizens. it is indisputable that the eafrd is a powerful instrument and that it should be used well not only in the framework of the common agricultural policy but also in the context of the other policies on which we are working, and in particular europe 2020. in this sense, the cap must be seen as one of the building blocks of the europe we want and are building. the creation of jobs in agriculture and industry must not be an alternative but a complement to the industrial development plans on which some of us are working; innovation in agriculture must no longer be underestimated and the sector must draw on not only the wealth of knowledge handed down over the centuries but also the research coming from laboratories; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. all these are issues which the amendments tabled in the committee on agriculture and rural development have taken up with due weight and on which i hope the council will be able to reach agreement in the interests of the eu.
in writing. - i welcome today's vote on the reform of the common agricultural policy; the approach adopted and approved by the european parliament's agriculture committee last january has been confirmed. this is the end of a long and difficult process that started in october 2011 when we received the legislative proposals from the european commission. in view of the initial proposal and the criticisms that have emerged, i would say that the result achieved is positive and shows our commitment to modifying the commission proposal taking into account the italian context, specificities and interests, making the cap more flexible and less bureaucratic, protecting businesses and farmers' incomes on the one hand and food quality and safety on the other. the vote also has a symbolic value: for the first time thanks to the changes introduced in 2009 by the lisbon treaty the european parliament, the only democratically elected institution, has had an active and decisive role. we are therefore entering the trilogue phase with the council and the commission with the aim and the hope of reaching an agreement leading to the final approval of the new common agricultural policy.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr capoulas santos because i am aware of the role that rural development plays in the economic life of large areas of the european union. this is of strategic importance in view of the economic and environmental role of agriculture and forestry. the past programming has given us many elements which have led us to make the right choices, at the level of the committee on agriculture, which go in the direction of ensuring measures for the competitiveness of agricultural enterprises, for the diversification of these enterprises and for an increasingly active role for young people in the agricultural sector. a second pillar of the cap, ready to meet the challenges of the future, is the one we have chosen and the one we must guarantee to our european farmers.
in writing. - a thank you to the rapporteur and to the chairman of the committee on agriculture, mr de castro. the agricultural fund for rural development has been an important support for european agricultural activities. agriculture is still the main economic sector in almost all eu countries. to ensure that europe's population is fed, we need modern, sustainable and innovative agriculture, which promotes quality agricultural production and increases employment. the european union will also have to focus on environmentally friendly organic production to meet the challenge of non-european countries that pay little attention to the quality of products. i have always argued that rural districts and quality agri-food districts are new and modern instruments for guiding production, avoiding excesses or shortages. the agriculture of tomorrow can only succeed if it is led by young farmers who are capable of giving new life. the regions are responsible for drawing up plans and programmes to complement the initiatives taken during the previous programming period, in order to avoid any duplication.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the matter. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be given greater flexibility in their decision-making procedures. it was essential to take account of the current situation and the major economic challenges facing the european union such as the growing demand for agricultural products, the wild fluctuation in raw material prices, the lack of transparency and the lack of aid for farms. the tobacco sector in particular was at risk of being severely penalised and will continue to benefit from the coupled payment, which can be granted to all agricultural products for an amount of resources equal to 15% of the national ceiling for direct aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr la via on the common agricultural policy because i share the particular attention paid to making it easier for farmers to benefit from european rules. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of agricultural products, such as the introduction of a new system of quotas for the production of cereals, the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of agricultural products and the introduction of a new system of quotas for the marketing of agricultural products. i appreciate the role of the paying agencies, which are given the task of establishing more frequent and direct relations with the farmers themselves. i also support the introduction of the principle of proportionality, according to which the action taken following infringements must be proportionate not only to the infringement committed but also to the extent of the delay and the actual responsibility which can be attributed to the individual farmer.
in writing. - i congratulate mr la via on the way he has handled the mass of amendments tabled and the interconnections with the other proposals in the package, and i am sure he will maintain the same level of professionalism in the course of the next negotiations, for which i voted. i feel i must share a consideration: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. it is important that the relationship between the european commission and businesses is set up and managed in the spirit of cooperation, and that transparency and the sharing of objectives are therefore the key factors. it is for these reasons that i have given my colleagues the confidence to continue the work they have started, and i am sure that they will not disappoint me, the citizens or the farming companies.
in writing. - i welcome today's vote on the reform of the common agricultural policy; the approach adopted and approved by the european parliament's agriculture committee last january has been confirmed. this is the end of a long and difficult process that started in october 2011 when we received the legislative proposals from the european commission. in view of the initial proposal and the criticisms that have emerged, i would say that the result achieved is positive and shows our commitment to modifying the commission proposal taking into account the italian context, specificities and interests, making the cap more flexible and less bureaucratic, protecting businesses and farmers' incomes on the one hand and food quality and safety on the other. the vote also has a symbolic value: for the first time thanks to the changes introduced in 2009 by the lisbon treaty the european parliament, the only democratically elected institution, has had an active and decisive role. we are therefore entering the trilogue phase with the council and the commission with the aim and the hope of reaching an agreement leading to the final approval of the new common agricultural policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the decision on the opening of interinstitutional negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy and, in particular, on the related mandate on the financing, management and monitoring of the cap because i believe that the new measures contained in it will be able to give a boost to a sector, the agricultural sector, which is now in deep crisis. certain guidelines are needed to ensure that european farmers have an adequate income, a precise definition of 'active farmer' which will make it possible to grant concrete aid to those who actually carry out this activity, greater transparency in the funding provided and increasing simplification of bureaucracy, especially for smes and young farmers. today, there is a greater need to protect european agricultural products and fruit and vegetables, particularly those from southern europe, which are subject to competition from agricultural products from the other side of the mediterranean. in order to ensure the competitiveness of european production, priority should be given to shorter agri-food chains and the negotiation of trade agreements with third countries which bring about conditions of balance and reciprocity. we must protect our producers from selling their products below cost and promote competitive and sustainable agriculture which is in favour of territorial development and respectful of the environment.
in writing. − the new common agricultural policy must be able to guarantee a stable and high-quality food supply for all european consumers. the new cap will have the tools to make 'green' measures mandatory, introducing the flexibility needed to enable farmers to meet the new challenges of the markets. finally, a balance has been struck between food security and improved environmental protection: now the eu's new agricultural policy will be able to provide even more public goods for european citizens.
in writing. − the reform of the common agricultural policy plays a key role in the european economic policy, and therefore it is necessary to take into account challenges such as climate change, water and energy conservation, soil erosion and biodiversity. the result of comagri's work on the cap is to strike the right balance between 'greening' measures (corrected to avoid impact on farm production costs and questionable environmental effects) and market measures, while also reducing the bureaucratic burden of cap measures and their management and control. i also believe that it is essential that the new agricultural policy should encourage farmers to take care of the environment, by stimulating the creation of new jobs, by supporting women in agriculture and the professional farmer. unfortunately for italy, this means that there will be less money available overall, also because compared to the previous cap, the european countries that will share it will be 27 instead of 15.
in writing. - yesterday we voted on the reform of the common agricultural policy. being a farmer is a difficult business challenge, often dependent on atmospheric and environmental variables and characterised by harsh and prolonged working conditions. it is an example of sacrifice to work, in the face of which the complaint of those colleagues who asked yesterday in this house to suspend the voting sessions, which began at 12 noon, to give way to lunch and a lighter course of parliamentary work, which lasted for well over two hours, is shouting and hurting with the force of an insult. some colleagues may have lost touch with the reality that those who are already fortunate enough to have a job will certainly not complain if they start at noon and work for a few hours. the honourable members could have had a snack before noon, since the number of votes to be taken had been known for some time, and they should have remembered that working in brussels and strasbourg is a privilege, representing millions of citizens who, if they are lucky, work and often do so in uncomfortable conditions with the problem of making ends meet with their salary.
mr president, the positive aspects have already been mentioned: i also agree that we need a long-term perspective that ensures predictability of investments in low-carbon technologies, etc., etc. there are, however, a number of points which concern me very much, which is why i finally abstained from voting. i would remind you that the european union accounts for only 11% of global greenhouse gas emissions and is still the only international economic community to have adopted binding legislation on greenhouse gas emissions. i would remind you that we urgently need to adopt measures which will really contribute to economic recovery and employment. i would like to remind you of the public resistance to major projects in the energy and infrastructure sectors. i would remind you that it is of paramount importance that energy consumers be protected from further increases in the cost of energy. all this has not been taken into account and i also regret very much that paragraph 91 has been adopted, which calls for permanent amendments to the current rules on emissions trading.
in writing. - i agree with the european union's objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050: the eu is still the only international economic community to have adopted binding legislation on greenhouse gas emissions. we must, however, take account of the fact that there are some critical issues to be resolved, including the need to provide for measures to compensate for the increase in energy prices, which is an inevitable consequence of the decarbonisation process. in this respect, consumer protection is needed, as energy prices in europe are higher than in most of our global partners. i voted against paragraph 91 which calls for permanent amendments to the current emissions trading regulations: the proposed measures penalise industrial sectors through increased production costs and would severely curb growth and employment opportunities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the energy roadmap 2050 because it recognises the need for member states to work together to transform the energy system. this text sets the basis for proposing legislative initiatives on energy policy, with a view to developing a policy framework for 2030, including milestones and targets on greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency. i believe that, as energy infrastructure and installations typically take many years to complete and have a very long lifetime, we need to take action immediately setting up the right targets for the short, middle and long-term. i also welcome the importance of a social dimension being included in the roadmap, which encourages member states to cooperate in a spirit of solidarity, paying special attention to energy poverty and low-income vulnerable households that are most affected by higher energy prices.
in writing. − while welcoming the commission's commitment to explore the possibilities of achieving the union's decarbonisation target while ensuring security of energy supply, i am concerned that it has based decarbonisation scenarios on the assumption of global climate action but has not carried out any analysis to determine a scenario based on achieving high levels of energy efficiency. taking into account the variations in the energy mix between member states, it is necessary to address urgently the lack of studies in the commission's impact assessment on the social and economic implications of further greenhouse gas emission reductions for individual member states. these studies, in my view, could form the basis for the formulation of equitable long-term solutions in the energy sector. i believe that post-2020 commitments to new greenhouse gas emission reduction targets should be conditional on the commission presenting progress made, firstly, in implementing the 2020 reduction targets. the commission should also present a supplementary assessment offering suggestions to avoid the risk of carbon leakage due to the relocation of production outside the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs tzavela's report on the energy roadmap 2050. i think this text is very balanced and acceptable, especially when it focuses on the lack of flexibility in the commission's roadmap and on the scenarios envisaged. i support the rapporteur's view that it is essential to change the current approach to climate policy, which does not take account of the specificities of the various geographical areas and the socioeconomic realities of the individual regions of europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs tzavela's report which sets out a roadmap to 2050 in the energy sector because a long-term strategy is indispensable if we are to guarantee the social welfare and competitiveness of our industries. in the light of the eu's commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 80% by 2050, the balance achieved between safeguarding the autonomy of member states to decide on the energy mix best suited to their national circumstances and the need for strong coordination at community level to maintain the consistency of action is commendable. i share the strong call for the development of ccs technologies, the ets market, new technologies and alternative fuels. in particular, investment in renewable energy research is needed: energy policies must be supported alongside innovation policies to make a significant contribution to the recovery of the european economy and growth in all productive sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the importance of an energy policy for the european union at a time of economic and financial crisis such as the present one cannot be underestimated. energy can and must also play a role as a stimulus for growth and the creation of new jobs. improving energy efficiency, a greater commitment to the use of renewable energy and new energy infrastructure that is modern, intelligent and capable of enabling more flexible energy storage and use capacity, will have to be the pillars of the future european energy policy. the industrial sector must be given the necessary incentives to promote investment that can foster development and reduce co2 emissions at the same time. in this context, it is essential to establish common intermediate objectives also for 2030 and 2040, which therefore go beyond the 20-20-20 agenda. the ambition must be to have a green economy that is competitive in the world and capable of producing growth, jobs and prosperity.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report on the energy roadmap 2050 - a future with energy. at a time of economic and financial crisis such as the present one, the european union's energy policy cannot be underestimated. energy can and must also play a role as a stimulus for growth and the creation of new jobs. improving energy efficiency, greater commitment to the use of renewable energy and new modern, intelligent energy infrastructure capable of enabling more flexible energy storage and use capacity will have to be the pillars of future european energy policy. the industry needs to be given the necessary incentives to promote investments that can foster development and reduce co2 emissions at the same time. in this context, it is essential to establish common intermediate objectives also for 2030 and 2040, thus going beyond the 20-20-20 agenda. for these reasons, i am convinced that the way forward is a green economy, which is competitive in the world and capable of generating growth, jobs and prosperity.
in writing. − the 85% to 90% reduction in emissions compared with 1990 identified in the roadmap sets the path towards a decarbonised economy by 2050, which will require major investment in all sectors of activity and particularly in research. we have a long way to go . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this scenario of emission reductions, energy efficiency is a cost-effective way to achieve energy saving targets. i understand that at this stage all technologies which can contribute to the reduction of emissions must be considered. although i voted in favour of the report, i would urge caution on the geological storage of carbon dioxide (ccs). the effects on the environment and the ecosystem are not yet known.
in writing. - we voted on mr tzavela's report during the sitting. the report welcomes the commission's energy roadmap 2050 and its objective of ensuring fair and universal access to a sustainable energy supply for all european citizens. the report recalls the competence of the member states to draw up their own energy plans but also stresses the importance of a community approach. renewable energy, energy efficiency, flexible infrastructure and training on energy issues are key elements of a long-term strategy.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mrs tzavela, as it highlights the shortcomings of the commission's energy roadmap 2050. it also criticises the effectiveness of the current eu climate policy approach of binding, top-down limits that are the same for everyone (one-size-fits-all), and strongly calls for this approach to be reversed, taking into account the specific geographical and socio-economic realities of the member states and regions. the long-term (2050) objectives should therefore be measured at union rather than national level and not be based on binding milestones to 2030 and 2040. finally, it rightly insists on the wider energy mix, without prejudicial exclusions on any energy source and supply channel
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the energy roadmap for 2050. this report deals with a central issue for the union: the european union's energy policy. i recognise the strategic importance of the priorities set out in this roadmap for a long-term strategy. improving energy policy also means thinking about the future of europe and its industry, stimulating its competitiveness and also providing a social response: an efficient energy policy allows consumers to keep costs down considerably. the report stresses first of all the need to improve energy efficiency and savings as soon as possible and also urges the member states to cooperate with each other in order to complete the internal energy market and the necessary infrastructure. other important objectives set out in the report to be achieved by 2050 are diversification of sources and suppliers, the organisation of the gas market and the switch to renewable energy.
in writing. − energy policies are a very topical issue and of great interest to the european union, especially in the light of the europe 2020 strategy. the union's objective is to have a broad-ranging and longer-term strategic planning which can identify the main objectives and promote and support them in the most appropriate way. the targets for the next programming period are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% to 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, while the forecasts are based on certain assumptions about technological and economic developments. in this climate, member states are urged to prepare a fertile ground for new policies and objectives, and the union is committed to promoting crossborder infrastructure affecting many member states. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. - on the nuclear issue, a position must be taken, not least because after the serious tragedy at the fukushima plant in japan and even before chernobyl, it is necessary to reassure european citizens, member states hosting nuclear power stations and neighbouring states, that health and safety are priority issues for the eu. it is the duty of the institutions to ensure maximum transparency by closing obsolete plants and taking more stringent measures to avoid the least risk and by requiring that stress tests be carried out on nuclear power stations on our territory as well as those built in countries bordering the eu. it is also essential to apply strict measures not only on the operation of the plants but also on the disposal of waste. last but not least, we must engage in dialogue with citizens and local authorities, respecting their views and wishes.
in writing. - exactly two years after the fukushima disaster, the european union is preparing to revise the nuclear safety directive. in today's resolution parliament calls for guarantees for the safety of the installations and the treatment of waste to protect european citizens. i believe that stress tests are useful in improving safety culture; we are aware that the implications of nuclear safety are transnational: we need to find a common line of action. i believe we must avoid that investment in security has a negative impact on the price of energy for businesses and citizens, who are already bearing the brunt of the crisis.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the european parliament expects the results of the stress test of 145 reactors in the union and 20 outside it to help promote a culture of nuclear safety in europe. as a result of the stress tests, some countries have started to implement measures to improve the safety of their power plants. however, the stress tests initiated by the commission and ensreg were limited in scope and were aimed at assessing the robustness and ability of nuclear power plants to cope with extreme external events. stress tests cannot therefore replace in-depth safety inspections of nuclear power plants which are the national responsibility of the member states. the house also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and to the risk of carcinogens being released into the environment. the commission has also concluded that the measures in question are not imputable to the state and that the state aid is imputable to the state. parliament recommended that the union should support international efforts to develop safety standards as high as possible.
in writing. - on the safety of nuclear power stations, parliament adopted a motion for a resolution calling on all national authorities in the european union to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the risks and reliability of the safety of nuclear power stations in their territories. the responsibility for such controls lies primarily with the member states, as reaffirmed by council directive 2009/71/euratom of 25 june 2009. however, we all know about the very painful nuclear disaster that occurred in 2011 at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan. the commission has also examined the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection. the purpose of these procedures is to monitor constantly the situation of nuclear power stations and their safety, in order to avoid the recurrence of disastrous events, the consequences of which, as is well known, also affect the populations of neighbouring countries. parliament therefore called on all member states to carry out regular monitoring of nuclear power stations and to report on the results obtained in a completely transparent and clear manner, so that citizens could also be freely informed about the data. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − i strongly back this resolution because it points to the need for member states to transpose measures agreed at eu level on fighting extremism and racism into national law. i believe that europe must be at the forefront in promoting a culture of respect, acceptance and tolerance. for this reason, fighting racism and xenophobia, in both the private and public sphere must be an eu priority. the only way to start hindering this enormous problem is by ensuring that bias-motivated offences – such as these with racist, xenophobic and homophobic intent – are punishable within criminal law systems. in addition, these offences must be properly recorded and effectively investigated, and victims must be offered proper assistance, protection and compensation. one big problem to be faced is that many crimes still remain unreported because of a lack of trust in the reaction of institutions, particularly in the context of an economic crisis, where scapegoats are easily blamed.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. the resolution stressed that all forms of intolerance and discrimination must remain unacceptable in the european union. the commission, the council and the member states must step up the fight against hate crime and discriminatory attitudes and behaviour. parliament called for a comprehensive strategy to combat hate crime, prejudice-based violence and discrimination. member states are invited to take all appropriate measures to encourage the reporting of such offences and of any other form of crime based on racism and xenophobia, while ensuring adequate protection for reporting persons and victims of offences of a racist or xenophobic nature. parliament called on the eu to support training programmes for judicial and law enforcement authorities and relevant eu bodies in the fight against discriminatory practices and hate crime and called for a wider collection of reliable data on hate crime, as well as for the development of mechanisms to make hate crime visible in the eu.
in writing. − social issues are one of the pillars of eu policies, and in this context the eu has adopted a number of instruments to combat discrimination, such as council directive 2000/43/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin and council directive 2000/78/ec establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and working conditions. in many eu countries, intolerance towards ethnic minorities is still common, as in austria, where the right-wing populist party allows and encourages a rising level of hate crime, or in hungary, where incitement to hatred is directed at the roma population, often branded as unfit for coexistence. it is intolerable that racism or intolerance still exists and the issue becomes even more odious when it is an integral part of the politics of a country. the resolution calls on the commission, the council and the member states to launch a strategy against these crimes and for the eu to sign the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination (uncerd). the resolution meets with my favourable opinion.
in writing. − article 35 of the treaty underlines that the protection of human health is an important element of the european union's policy. the current research reports on endocrine disruptors and their effects on humans and animals reveal a worrying trend: in the last two decades, there has been a dramatic increase in hormone-related disorders worldwide. the main problem is that endocrine disruptors are everywhere in our daily lives: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council and the european parliament. as one of the cornerstones of the european union's chemicals policy is the precautionary principle, i agree with the rapporteur in urging the commission to take all appropriate measures to strengthen the safety criteria for citizens first. it is particularly important, in my view, that endocrine disruptors be labelled in chemicals for those categories of products - such as textiles - with which children come in contact in particular.
in writing. - i did not support the westlund report on the protection of public health from endocrine disruptors. i think that this text is too alarmist and unbalanced, leading to the view that the reactions of the endocrine system to chemical substances (natural or synthetic) are dangerous a priori. we need to take a more balanced approach, and it is essential that the legislation in force provides for appropriate screening tests, based on criteria based on a full risk assessment.
in writing. − determined action is needed by introducing a screw-in for hormone-disrupting chemicals, reducing exposure to so-called 'endocrine disruptors'. in the last two decades, more and more people in europe have begun to suffer from hormonal disorders. we must act now, by addressing all potential endocrine disruptors such as steroid hormones, certain pesticides, dioxins and plastic additives.
in writing. - i am opposed to the text of the report which is part of the work on the definition of criteria for the identification of endocrine disrupting substances, as it takes an excessively alarmist tone: the danger-based approach and therefore the a priori application of the precautionary principle could lead to the indiscriminate prohibition of entire groups of chemicals which might otherwise prove to be safe. in short, the perspective is to regard the reactions of the endocrine system to chemicals (natural or synthetic) as dangerous a priori. a more sensible approach should instead be based on the who definitions of 'endocrine disruptor' and 'adverse effect', with a case-by-case assessment based on un-defined criteria. i think it is essential to set a threshold for each chemical substance, beyond which, according to scientific evidence, there may be risks to the health of citizens.
in writing. − health protection is an important element of eu policies as enshrined in article 35 of the treaty, and is closely linked to the precautionary principle (article 191). in recent years there has been an increase in diseases linked to hormonal dysfunctions which have caused more or less serious problems such as the impossibility of conception, or the increase in the incidence of breast cancer, which in the united states has doubled since 1980. this cannot be linked to genetic changes alone, but is undoubtedly influenced by external factors such as lifestyle habits, drug use, stress or poor diet or a combination of these. the presence of endocrine disruptors is therefore undeniable, but it is difficult to carry out a thorough investigation of these substances to establish a cause and effect relationship, but it is impossible for the consumer to protect himself, given their widespread use in many areas of our daily lives. i am in favour of this resolution which proposes to review and develop all the relevant legislation, providing for more targeted controls on particular types of products such as those intended for children, and perhaps providing for a classification of endocrine disruptors.
in writing. - i believe that the hirsch report's sole purpose is to ensure the entry of immigrants into the labour market and into the world of politics. the rapporteur is supporting her arguments by presenting partial, incomplete data, with a clear manipulative and biased intent, aimed at offering an unrealistic picture of the needs and priorities of our society. for these reasons i did not support this text.
in writing. i have already spoken in this chamber the other night about some of the puzzling aspects of this report, and i wonder how it is possible that anyone can even think about some of the things. i refer in particular to a point in the text which states that irregular migrants should be able to participate in the social, political and economic life of the country in which they are: someone should explain to me how this could be possible, since they are illegal immigrants, therefore illegal. fortunately, an amendment has been adopted which has removed this paragraph, but the problem remains: how can europe think of managing and solving the problems of immigration if it comes to propose such solutions? as i have said on other occasions, in my scale of assessment of employment and social policies, the tuscans should come first, then the italians, the europeans and then the regular immigrants. for those who are not regular, therefore who do not respect the law, there can and must be no preferential treatment: this is also to protect the immigrants themselves who are in compliance with all the rules. it is not by false optimism and such improvisations that europe can solve its problems.
in writing. - 2013 is the european year of citizens, so the issue of immigration is even more pressing. it is now seen as a resource which can act as a barrier to the gradual decline in the working age population and the shortage of skilled workers. in 2000, about a quarter of jobs were created by immigrants. it would be desirable, however, that the migrant population should have equal opportunities to access even highly qualified jobs, and for this to happen it is necessary to provide for a commitment on the part of both the host and the country of origin to guarantee equal levels of education and to eliminate all kinds of barriers to access to the labour market. the introduction and respect of the 'culture of integration' is therefore called for, which concerns not only the world of work but also participation in social and political life, and which distinguishes europe as a continent from the culture of welcome. a number of infrastructures will therefore have to be put in place to ensure adequate integration. i therefore express my favourable opinion.
in writing. − despite a communitywide ban, asbestos is still found in buildings, pipes, trains, ships and schools. according to the who, there are 20 to 30 thousand cases of asbestos-related diseases in the eu every year. and that number continues to grow. i would like to stress, however, that the european parliament legislates on policies relating to the registration of asbestos, the vocational training of construction workers and maintenance workers, the development of removal programmes and the recognition of asbestos-related diseases. yet just last week, asbestos was leaked from a factory in the course of work at the strasbourg site. needless to say, the question of the second location and its associated costs is coming back to the fore in good time, as all these incidents could have been avoided.
in writing. − according to the world health organisation, the number of asbestos-related illnesses reported each year in the european union alone is between 20 and 30 thousand, and it is estimated that more than 300 thousand european citizens could die of cancer by 2030. the lack of information from many member states prevents reliable mortality forecasting in europe. in this context, i believe that information and training of citizens and the exchange of best practice between member states are essential for the diagnosis of asbestos-related diseases. i agree with the rapporteur in urging the commission to draw up a study to record the problems caused by the use of asbestos in each member state and to identify, where necessary, targeted actions for its removal. i would also draw the commission's attention to the need to promote research and remediation activities aimed at preventing the production of single fibres and/or destroying the crystalline latticework similar to asbestos fibres. finally, i believe that controls should be strengthened to require all interested parties, in particular those involved in the treatment of asbestos waste in landfills, to classify any waste containing asbestos as hazardous waste to be disposed of only in specific landfills.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr hughes' report because i strongly share the main objective of the text: to eliminate all residual asbestos deposits. i also find the other proposals put forward by the rapporteur extremely interesting: the eu must raise the issue of asbestos dumping in developing countries and apply diplomatic pressure to exporting countries to stop mining by preventing ships transiting eu routes from calling at or using port facilities and temporary storage facilities in the eu.
in writing. this report focuses on the health risks from the presence of asbestos in the workplace: i would say that we are almost at the grotesque point, considering that asbestos was found in this very european parliament in strasbourg, no later than two weeks ago. but the question is unfortunately very serious and dramatic: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat asbestos in the community. the case of eternit is perhaps the best known, and just yesterday the turin prosecutor's office called for a severe punishment for the people responsible for the swiss multinational; in tuscany too, the number of workers affected by asbestos-related diseases is impressive, mainly linked to the shipyards where ships were built filled with this very dangerous substance. the negative effects of asbestos persist over time, and it is therefore necessary to achieve a complete removal of asbestos from many buildings, both public and private. the european union must also work with its trading partners to ensure that they too eliminate any possible danger linked to this substance, which has caused too many victims, often unaware of the risks they faced in their daily workplace.
in writing. - i am in favour of this report, as direct exposure to asbestos fibres continues to cause considerable biological, moral, social and environmental damage to the populations concerned. i believe it is important to protect the health of citizens, which is closely linked to the quality of the environment in which they live and work. a european plan for the census and remediation of all european asbestos sites should be activated in order to inform and protect future generations. it is of concern that the worldwide extraction, processing and use of asbestos fibres has only been transferred and concentrated in developing countries (china, india, russia). in fact, asbestos consumption has increased exponentially over the last decade. europe must commit itself to the drafting of an international convention that will ban extraction, trade and use in all those countries where there is no protection for workers and the community.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr hughes, which calls for action to be taken to identify asbestos deposits still existing within the union, with a view to their elimination. the rapporteur's calls for the eu to exert international pressure, particularly on developing third countries, are particularly welcome. the commission is also being asked to ensure that ships carrying asbestos cannot dock or use port infrastructure or temporary storage facilities when transiting through community waters.
in writing. − asbestos is a known source of serious disease and there is no maximum exposure threshold below which it mitigates its destructive effects on human health. however, there are still too many areas in europe where there are no measures to mitigate these effects and often, especially during renovation work on old buildings, workers come into contact with asbestos without protective measures. given that poland is the only member state to date to have implemented an action plan for an asbestos-free country, it seems urgent to plan for european union action to censor asbestos through public registers and plan for its final removal by 2028. a training plan is also provided for workers potentially exposed to asbestos. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the european parliament's right of initiative, the right to vote and the right to stand as a candidate in elections. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. asbestos is the second most polluting substance in europe, after nuclear power stations. so any parliamentary initiative to eradicate this terrible scourge, which threatens everyone, no one excluded, can only be welcomed. but more needs to be done, much more. i am thinking, for example, of the introduction of the already tried and tested methods of disposing of asbestos, alternatives to landfilling, by productive recovery of the waste. but i am thinking above all of the ex-legislature's assertion that those responsible for this environmental disaster, who have become immensely rich at the expense of the citizens, are called upon to bear the very high costs of cleaning up and securing the contaminated sites. we cannot expect that the potential victims of asbestos should also pay the price necessary to free themselves from a threat on which the executioner has indecently speculated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the berlinguer report analysing the proposal for a statute for the european mutual fund. the text is intended to facilitate the development of crossborder mutual societies by providing the member states with the appropriate legal instruments to enable them to do so. i consider it essential to emphasize that the statute is not intended to replace the laws of the various member states or to bring them into line, and that, bearing in mind the importance of protecting the specific features of the national legal systems, one of its essential objectives is to remove the obstacles which currently prevent crossborder cooperation between mutual societies.
in writing. - mutual funds are voluntary groups of natural or legal persons whose purpose is to meet the needs of the members rather than to obtain a return on investment; they shall operate in accordance with the principles of voluntary membership and solidarity between members and shall be managed in accordance with democratic principles, thereby contributing to responsible and sustainable management. they play an important role within the countries of the union by providing social and insurance services at lower costs and access to credit for members with low or near-zero interest rates. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of employees are applied in the member states. such a statute would also make it possible to extend the widespread use of the model among the member states, some of which do not provide for regulation of this type of company, and would allow mutual societies to operate on a european scale but also across borders, by carrying out cross-border mergers or transformations and the creation of genuine european mutual societies. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because the alarming situation in egypt cannot be ignored. in particular i strongly support this text as it call on member states to made efforts aimed at facilitating the return of misappropriated assets stolen by the former regime to the people of egypt. i believe in the necessity to establish an eu team of investigators, lawyers and prosecutors to deliver legal support and assistance to egyptian authorities in this process. i would like to emphasise that, beyond its economic significance, assets recovery can contribute to bolstering justice and accountability in the egyptian institutional system and it is therefore an issue of great symbolic importance in relations between the eu and egypt.
in writing. - i believe that the european union should seriously consider withdrawing financial support to egypt until significant progress is made in the field of human rights and democracy. as a first step, the death sentences of the 21 football fans involved in the port said tragedy must be immediately commuted to prison sentences and a moratorium on all capital sentences in progress must be approved immediately. the aim is to break the spiral of violence that the country is sinking into, by bringing to justice anyone who commits crimes against women and women's rights activists in the country.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because the humanitarian situation in the dprk is deeply alarming. the dprk government does not allow any political opposition or freedom of information. the justice system is subservient to the state and the death penalty is applied for a broad range of crimes against the state. moreover the dprk state authorities systematically carry out extrajudicial killings, arbitrary detentions and disappearances, interning more than 200 000 people in prison and ‘re-education’ camps. as for the nuclear threat, i strongly believe that until we accept that nuclear weapons are abhorrent and a grave danger no matters who possesses them, we are unlike to make meaningful progress in halting the spread of these devices. for this reason we need to intensify worldwide efforts for nuclear disarmament.
in writing. − north korea's recent history is marked by political, social and cultural regression. this is evident from recent developments concerning nuclear threats or the declaration of the nullity of the armistice with south korea and the united states, following a hard line by the un security council. this has obviously reignited tensions between the above countries, with frequent threats from the dprk. in terms of social conditions, the north korean people do not enjoy freedom of access to information or the right to free elections or freedom of expression. the european union has spoken out against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, with a strategy adopted by the european council in december 2003, and against the unjustified restriction of the freedoms of the population. the resolution underlines the condemnation of the dprk's nuclear threat attitude towards other states and calls for the restoration of its commitments to a moratorium on missile tests and the ratification of the treaty on the total nuclear test ban, and calls for the establishment of a special united nations commission of inquiry into the human rights situation in the dprk. i am in favour of this.
in writing. the report by mr belder analyses very precisely the many critical points which remain in relations between europe and china and is not afraid to denounce many uncomfortable situations, calling for a rapid reversal of course. i am referring, for example, to the call for greater attention to human rights, for a genuine process of democratization, for compliance with the rules of the international labour organisation. for all these reasons, which i share, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on eu-china relations, as it is not afraid to denounce many problematic aspects, including: the concept of strategic partnership is called for. the member states are called upon to refrain from undertaking bilateral foreign policy initiatives which would jeopardise the efforts of the eeas. they would like to see substantial progress in democratization within the chinese communist party. china is invited to respect minimum social standards and the rules of the international labour organisation. we are concerned about the continued application of the death penalty in a country where trials are not considered to be fully transparent. they deplore the chinese authorities' control and censorship of the internet. this de facto rule removes any limitation on the possibility of censorship. the chinese government is invited to engage the tibetan and uighur peoples in a responsible and meaningful way in matters related to the governance of their territories, while respecting their religion. the chinese government is urged to grant official recognition to religions other than the officially recognized ones, eliminating the requirement of registration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr belder's report because i believe that at this time of change in china (we are in fact on the eve of the appointment of the new leader, xi jinping), it is important to underline our willingness to deepen and improve the strategic partnership between europe and the people's republic of china. we also appreciate the enormous progress that china has been able to make in a very short period of time. we would nevertheless like to call on the chinese authorities to make an effort to promote the democratic rights of their citizens and we support their activism. there are still some areas where we would like to see further progress made: think about censorship, poor food security, one-child policy, low religious tolerance. we believe that china's new hierarchy can lead the country into a new era, but only if it takes into account the dreams, and the rights, of its citizens.
in writing. - diplomatic relations between the european union and china have been in place since may 1975 and have been considerably intensified since the signing of the cooperation agreement in 1985. however, while economic relations between china and the european union are seen as growing, it is time to focus attention on the humanitarian conditions of the chinese people. for example, from the point of view of the certainty of law enforcement, in 2007, president hu jintao ruled that judges must submit to three authorities: the party, the people and the law, in the order indicated; lawyers must pledge allegiance to the chinese communist party to obtain a license to practice. abortion is also inflicted during the last months of pregnancy, respecting the one-child rule. freedom of association and expression is still far from being a guaranteed right, and only five religions are considered and tolerated. in view of this, and welcoming the economic progress made by china and its opening up to other markets, and hoping for their continued growth, this resolution, which i support, is intended to call on the chinese government to find a solution to the social ills plaguing the country.
in writing. - i fully agree with this resolution because, beyond the obvious ethical and moral reasons, it is in addition to the work we are doing in the imco committee on online betting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. it is therefore necessary to put in place all the necessary regulatory instruments to prevent these aberrant phenomena which betray the very meaning of sport. it is good that these instruments are accompanied by penalties which are capable of acting as a deterrent, because complex investigations are accompanied by high costs for the investigating bodies, and it would be a good rule to make the offenders pay these costs instead of the citizens, who are already victims of such fraud. if action on education is not enough, the eu must show an iron fist to prevent corruption in sport at all levels.
in writing. - sport should be fun and passionate, and when we hear about corruption or fraud, we are all obviously very puzzled. this resolution focuses on the world of football, which is by far the main and most popular sport in italy; thousands of people follow their favorite team with transportation, sometimes even making not indifferent sacrifices, and to find out that some matches were rigged is very painful. it is right that strict measures should be taken against those who break the rules, and i think it is extremely serious when the matches are arranged by millionaire footballers. we cannot profit and speculate on the passions of the people, because then we end up discrediting the whole movement, even the healthy part of this sport, which is by far the majority. sometimes, behind the fake results are large criminal organizations, and as such, they must be dealt with and then promptly suppressed; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we must restore cleanliness and morality to this world, which has been too infected and corrupted by the allure of the "god of money".
in writing. - i believe that eu member states need to step up their efforts to combat corruption not only in football but in all sports by introducing common sanctions for match-fixing. all actors involved in combating such fraud should better coordinate their efforts, sharing the names of people involved in corruption cases to avoid illegal activities being simply moved to another eu country.
in writing. − on monday 4 february 2013, europol announced that it had uncovered a large criminal network responsible for the manipulation of football matches across europe and 50 people have been arrested so far. the world of football and sport in general is afflicted by a serious pathology of sports betting. the huge sums of money that circulate in this area spoil the outcome and the genuineness of sports matches, compromising their validity. given the fundamental importance of sport also in the process of individual growth, it is important to keep sports out of the market logic that affects their results. the resolution therefore calls on the member states to ensure the implementation of the declaration on the specific characteristics of sport and its social function in europe to be taken into account in the implementation of common policies, adopted at the nice european council in december 2000, and to impose a maximum ceiling on the remuneration of sportsmen and sportswomen which does not detract from the predominantly recreational nature of sport. i am in favour of this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a resolution which supports cotton as a key agricultural food commodity, widely used and cultivated in over 100 countries. it is an important source of employment and world trade in which the european union must be able to play a stronger role. the two aspects which have convinced me the most are those relating to the fight against child exploitation and those relating to the necessary labelling. it is undeniable that the cotton sector too often uses child labour and forced labour. more appropriate monitoring and communication would be desirable to prevent this intolerable social scourge as far as possible. the creation of an effective product labelling system to ensure that child labour is not used at any stage of the supply chain and production process could help in this regard. finally, i agree with the call on the european commission to assess the skills and to bring out the best practices in fair and solidary systems which allow for closer cooperation between consumers and producers.
in writing. finally, we have adopted a clear and courageous resolution, which strongly condemns certain inhumane practices, such as the exploitation of child labour, and calls for concrete measures, such as the need to introduce a labelling system which ensures that at no stage in the cotton supply chain and production process has child labour or forced labour been used. we hope that these suggestions will not just be on paper, but actually put into practice: i have seen this house too often fall into the trap of non-transparency and illegality, and fail to comply with various rules on the protection of quality marks and guarantees of origin. cotton is grown in many countries around the world and is the primary and direct source of employment and income for over 250 million people, engaged in the various stages of cultivation, production, processing, storage and transport. the textile sector is also largely based on the use of this raw material, and therefore the impact must be further multiplied. these facts help us to understand the importance of european action in this area, and i must say that the resolution we have adopted today is going in the direction i would like.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in february of this year the cracks in the already very delicate balance of the middle east question were violently reopened. this time the casus belli was the arrest of a 30-year-old palestinian, arafat jaradat, accused of throwing stones at israeli citizens. after a few days of interrogation in the prisons, the palestinian people were informed of the death of the boy, who, according to the israeli prison service, died of a heart attack. following an initial autopsy carried out by the institute of forensic medicine in israel, it was widely assumed that arafat was tortured during interrogation. the episode reignited a never-ending fire that led all palestinian prisoners to a hunger strike, as well as an attempt at revenge by an armed group linked to al-fatah, which launched a rocket into southern israel. in view of all this, and recalling that relations between europe and israel are based on respect for human rights and democratic principles, and stressing that respect for human rights and international humanitarian law is one of the values shared by the parties, i share the call on the state of israel to respect the right to life and health of palestinian prisoners and i hope for an objective and democratic investigation procedure to ensure an impartial truth.
member of the commission. − mr president, why did the commission propose the clarification of the eu emissions trading system directive in the first place? the basic idea of the eu ets is very simple: to make the right to pollute our climate a scarce resource that has a price, so that companies think more about how to reduce emissions and integrate the cost of doing so into their investment and operational decisions. because emissions rights can be traded, they will tend to end up with those businesses and factories that need them most for their activities and, therefore, are ready to pay the price if they need more than what they have received for free. do not forget that a lot of allowances are given out for free. this approach is cost-effective for society and was therefore designed to be a key tool in the eu’s efforts to meet its climate objectives. it was also meant to implement the ‘polluter pays’ principle enshrined in the treaty and to give companies in the eu’s internal market a level playing field. a level playing field, moreover, where you cannot beat your competitor simply by polluting more; where profitability is not just based on pushing the bill onto future generations, and where innovation in less-polluting processes and technologies is rewarded and pays off for companies, also in the short term. unfortunately, the system is not currently meeting all of these expectations, and there is one overriding reason for that: the economic crisis. the crisis has caused a fall in industrial production in the eu and thus in demand for allowances. this has resulted in the build-up of a huge, unexpected surplus of allowances that undermines the proper functioning of the system which, as i said, was designed to work through scarcity. in short, the protracted crisis has dramatically affected the eu ets – just as it has affected so many other areas of economic activity in europe. just as policy-makers and legislators in the past few years have been busy responding to the crisis and addressing its many negative impacts on our economy, so it is time to address the impacts it has on the european ets. i know some of you argue that the ets is a market and that we should, therefore, leave it alone. but in the case of a politically-created market set up through legislative action, such as the carbon market, policy-makers and legislators arguably have an even greater responsibility to act than in other markets if the assumptions on which their legislation was based have, meanwhile, fundamentally changed. may i remind you once again of the point that we have just heard mr groote concede, that it was actually this parliament that, in conjunction with the energy efficiency directive, asked the commission to tackle this situation? that is what we have been responding to, and i think that this parliament also has a responsibility now. that is why the commission has proposed clarifying the eu ets directive and the backloading of the sale of 900 million allowances to 2019 and 2020 as a short-term measure to avoid things getting even worse while we prepare for more lasting solutions. and that is why the commission has also put up for discussion a shortlist of options for structural measures that could provide a solution to the surplus in the medium term. but i wish to stress that backloading in itself – which is what we are discussing today – will have no effect whatsoever on the amount of free allowances given to our energy-intensive companies, or on the total amount of allowances put into circulation in the years 2013-2020, the third phase. after this introduction i will briefly comment on three issues involving some of the more specific key concerns that i know some of you have raised in the discussions. first, the concern that backloading would set a precedent for future intervention of the same nature. the commission understands this concern, and i can therefore be very clear on this point. we have never had any desire or intention of repeating this kind of exercise in the future, and that is also why the relevant amendments in this regard proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) would be acceptable to the commission. secondly, as regards the concerns expressed about electricity prices and the risk of carbon leakage, the commission has analysed the expected impact of backloading in an impact assessment, including – to the extent feasible – on individual sectors. the assessment shows clearly that the impacts of backloading are expected to remain well within those projected by past analysis. let me stress this very clearly: backloading is expected to counteract any further fall in the carbon price in the short term, in other words to stop the bleeding. it will not bring the price – or the impact on the risk of carbon leakage – anywhere close to the levels expected and politically accepted before the crisis, when the legislation was adopted. today the carbon price is around eur 4. it was supposed at this time to be around eur 30, so do not tell us that the crisis is not impacting on the price. of course it is. this means that, even with backloading, the impact of the crisis will still be reflected in a considerably lower carbon price than originally expected. according to those who are most into this market – you can see it in the press as late as today – they expect that you will see a very limited increase in the price if this parliament adopts this proposal tomorrow. this brings me to my last point. the market urgently needs parliament as well as the council to approve the proposal. i hope that you will do so tomorrow, because the sooner we get clarity on backloading the better, so that we can focus on what really matters – for instance, the 2030 framework – and deliver the predictability that our industries also need for the medium and longer term. the backdrop to all this is that climate change is getting worse. the eu’s dependency on imported fossil fuels is increasing and so is, therefore, the bill we have to pay for our energy. this is not only bad for the climate, it is also bad for our economy, our competitiveness and our jobs. let me finally stress one particular aspect that is at stake and which should be of particular concern to members of this parliament and european policymakers. to a large extent, backloading is the decision about whether we continue to regulate power generation and industry at european level or whether we act as bystanders witnessing an increasing fragmentation of the regulatory landscape and the internal market. i appeal to you, as the european parliament, to support the european ets as a common european tool. the alternative to doing this is not that we then just have very cheap prices and then nothing else happens. no, the alternative to securing the european ets is a patchwork of 27 different national regulatory systems. it cannot be in the interest of the european parliament to go back to renationalised climate and energy policies when one of the successes you have been instrumental in achieving is a europeanised climate and energy policy. i really hope that those of you who are still in doubt will bear this in mind tomorrow. that is the real alternative; that is why we need the backloading done, and we need it to be carried through tomorrow.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, i represent the position taken by the committee on industry, research and energy, which, by a very large majority, rejected the proposal sent to us by the commission. the basis of our rejection is the strong conviction that we cannot intervene in a market which is designed to be free and whose mechanisms must be regulated by the natural fluctuation between supply and demand. but even more, the vote in the itre committee is based on the conviction that europe, which is going through a severe crisis, especially in the manufacturing and steel sectors, with severe job cuts and the closure of many companies, cannot support a new crisis tax. in fact, this vote represents the hope that withdrawing quotas from the market will lead to an increase in the cost of quotas. the itre committee believes that the priorities for europe at present are jobs and growth. we believe that we can best defend the european manufacturing sector by keeping the market as proposed two years ago and not intervening in the course of the work with choices not shared by the vast majority of producers. of course, this could raise the cost of electricity bills even further in a continent like europe where even today that cost weighs too heavily on our production compared to the rest of the world markets.
on behalf of the efd group. i am in complete agreement with mrs sartori, chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy. the proposal to amend the ets directive, as it is formulated, gives the commission a free hand to intervene in the auction mechanism, to manipulate the market for allowances with the aim of controlling, or even predetermining, the price of co2. in addition, the proposal underestimates or completely ignores the impact on manufacturing and in particular on electricity-intensive sectors such as steel, which are struggling to return to pre-crisis production levels. as the conclusions of the last international conference on climate change showed, any binding commitments by other large global emitters comparable to those in europe will not be implemented until perhaps 2020. any action which would unilaterally increase the european effort to reduce emissions already set for 2020 would therefore appear to be totally unjustified and unacceptable. the european union should move beyond the unilateral policy and regulatory approach to climate dumping, insisting on a tariff policy at the borders of the european union.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for her patience in listening to our speeches, which unfortunately will not give her much satisfaction, however much we might have wanted to give her. commissioner, we are not against the ets system and we do not want to abolish it, but it is also clear from this debate, however quiet, that even those who are in favour of back-loading admit that it is a kind of patch, and we do not need patches at the moment, but rather lasting solutions that put in place sound environmental policies, that can last over time, that give certainty and fair and workable solutions. the back-loading doesn't seem to fit with any of this. there is a lot of uncertainty across the board, both within the parties and within the member state itself. we have heard that different types of industry have different positions in italy as well: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. we try to understand everyone's reasons, but we cannot lose sight of the absolute priorities of today, which are competitiveness and employment, as the chairman of the itre committee has already represented through the outcome of the vote in the committee itself. i don't think we can afford to raise the cost of energy today. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i think your question proves just that: we want the floor, we want the ceiling, we want to renegotiate everything. then i agree with you that we'd better start over.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the aviation sector, which is included in the ets, is required to reduce its emissions by 5% by 2020, compared to 21% for the other ets sectors. furthermore, only 15 percent of the shares are auctioned compared to 100 percent in the energy sector. the system also applies to flights originating in or destined for the european union by third country airlines. this has led to protests and threats of retaliation, particularly from the united states and china, which, feeling discriminated against, are pushing for a global solution within the icao. in view of the very recent results of the icao council meeting in november 2012, the commission proposes to temporarily suspend the application of the ets to intercontinental flights in relation to 2012 emissions, the so-called 'stop the clock', a proposal that is acceptable in the hope that, at the next icao assembly, the aviation sector will be excluded from the european ets.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that in environmental policy we must have the courage to take risks, and that is why i consider it very important to try to conclude an international agreement on air transport. i would say that such an agreement is indispensable! carriers on the major freight and passenger routes are by their nature supranational and need to be brought into line with the rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are at a stage where these sectors will undergo major changes, both in terms of production and services. only by imposing precise constraints on all of them will they be able to encourage research and innovation in a way which is consistent with our environmental policies.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 april 2013. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. the report under consideration is of particular importance: parliament is called upon to express its opinion on the proposal for a decision amending directive 2003/87/ec to clarify the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions. i reiterate, as i have emphasised on several occasions, my firm opposition to the european commission's proposal which, in my view, represents an arbitrary intervention in a market mechanism whose rules were already established with the 'climate and energy package' in 2008. the unilateralism of europe's climate policies is hurting european businesses! i think it is a serious contradiction to ask our companies to make additional efforts by increasing the costs of climate policies, while continuing to make concessions to third countries which do not agree to be part of a global climate agreement. a general increase in energy costs as an immediate effect of the temporary withdrawal of a number of allowances auctioned as proposed by the commission, in the face of a significant contraction in production, would help to slow down the recovery in the sectors most affected by the recent economic and financial crisis. moreover, the unstable regulatory environment resulting from the proposed measure is likely to create further uncertainties for our potential investors.
the next item is the report by zita gurmai, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on transposition and application of council directive 2004/113/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services (2010/2043(ini)) (a7-0044/2013).
mr president, i fully agree with the approach of mrs gurmai's report, which took the opportunity to ask the commission to present, albeit very late, its report on the application of the 2004 directive, which in particular deals with some very important points. in particular, in addition to the issues already raised by my predecessors, i would like to recall the problem that arises from the judgment of the court of justice in test achats of march 2011, which gave rise to the interpretative guidelines of the commission, which in fact change the interpretation of the directive and, in my opinion, should actually be amended with a rule similar to the directive, because there are many doubts about interpretation. the central theme of the question is as follows: until last december, it was possible to derogate in the member states from the principle of differentiating premiums on the basis of sex for statistical and actuarial reasons, namely that women statistically live longer than men, have better behaviour when driving cars and have different health problems. these data were also affected by individual checks and parameters. the guidelines and the judgment referred to above have meant that today it is possible to deal only on an individual basis; without any monitoring and greater clarity in the indications. today we have the following data in my country, as well as in others: young women who take out car insurance, for example, pay up to 18 percent more than they did before. i therefore call for greater attention to be paid to the discrimination which in fact affects women and more specific attention to the gradual implementation of these new rules which in fact penalize women.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs gurmai on her work. i would then like to emphasize - and i am addressing the commissioner - what seems to me to be a new discrimination, which is too often underestimated, because it is situated between work and the social welfare state, and that is the one concerning social security: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant women the right to vote in local elections, and that the right to vote in local elections should be extended to women. in short, what is presented as a great element of equality is in fact the construction of a new and very heavy discrimination.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all our colleagues for their interventions. i can share the concerns expressed by all of you that in real life discrimination is still there, despite our common efforts and our legislation. discrimination exists, and it exists in some areas which have to do with this directive; but it also exists in general. of course we cannot handle all the problems now –for example, pensions are not included in this case; but we have to take care of other areas, for example your concerns in connection with the insurance market. let me answer your questions. as regards legal certainty, the commission thinks that we have legal certainty, following the decision of the court and our commission guidelines. the issue here is not legal uncertainty – there is legal clarity – but of course i can understand that some of you would like to amend the directive in what you think would be a better way. this is not an easy exercise though. we have to bear in mind that amending the directive means that we have to be sure that we can obtain a unanimous vote in the council, which will not be easy, as you can imagine. in any case, what the commission is saying is that we are going to report on this directive, as requested, in 2014, bearing in mind all your concerns. then we can decide together what we are going to do. this is about legislation. but i agree with you that the two main challenges that we face are application and implementation. here we have to do our best. what we can say regarding the insurance market, for example, is that the commission remains vigilant in following the evolution of insurance markets in order to detect any unjustifiable rise in prices attributed to the test-achats ruling, including tools available under competition law in the event of alleged anti-competitive conduct. so here we have to continue with our competition services and competition rules to find out if there is a problem, as we have already said. referring to the problem as a whole which we have already mentioned, i would like to underline that the commission is preparing the report – but this does not mean that we are not taking action. i would like to inform you that three infringement cases are currently open against member states for non-conformity with the directive. this is a problem of application. germany, denmark and lithuania are under investigation for the application of this directive, and i think that we can do more following an assessment of the replies of the member states in this legislation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday, 16 april. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the implementation of regulation (eu) no 1026/2012 as regards the unsustainable fishing of mackerel in the north-east atlantic, tabled by pat the cope gallagher and gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000023/2013/2013 - b7-0114/2013) (2013/2575(rsp)).
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission does not want to interfere in iceland’s electoral campaign. this is something i would like to stress right from the beginning. let me now focus on the questions. i would like to thank you all for your speeches. i would like to reiterate that we are doing a great deal in order to put pressure on iceland and the faroe islands to come back to the table and to go for an agreement with regard to both the stocks – mackerel and atlanto-scandian herring. we are trying for both the stocks. what means are we using? dialogue, bilateral agreements and trying to raise this issue in international forums, whenever and wherever we can. we do not exclude any proposal from the table. we have received a proposal for a possible mediator, although we have to bear in mind that, in order to go for this, everybody has to agree that we will afterwards accept the outcome of this mediation. this means that we have to persuade everybody to agree. this will not be easy, but we are not excluding anything. but i have understood that you – almost all of you and all the speakers – have stressed the need to go ahead with implementing the new regulation on trade sanctions. i have taken the message on board, although i would like to repeat that we have to be careful. we have to go for a complete legal basis; we need to keep in mind the timing, and we need allies. that is why, regarding mackerel, i have said to you that i am going to discuss this issue again with the norwegian minister next week. i am going to meet her on wednesday, and afterwards i will inform all of you of the decision taken. we really need to have the norwegians with us on this, otherwise the result will not be the best that we can get. with regard to the atlanto-scandian herring, however, i have said very clearly to you that we think that the landscape is clearer here. i have therefore given the green light to open the procedure internally and to implement the trade instrument for trade sanctions against the faroe islands in this matter, following their departure from the negotiating table.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european network and information security agency (enisa) (com (2010) 0521 c7-0302/2010 2010/0275 (cod)) (a7-0056/2013).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a greenpeace study on the decline of bees, published last week, once again stresses the need to protect these pollinators by banning chemicals, such as neonicotinoids, which threaten their existence. the future of bees is not only at stake, but also that of all citizens of the union: in fact, most of our food depends significantly on the work of insect pollinators, and without their valuable help, about a third of food crops would have to be pollinated by other means. recently, efsa, through extensive research and targeted testing, has also established the lethal effects of neonicotinoids on bees, even at low doses. despite this scientific evidence, on 15 march the agriculture ministers of the 27 member states failed to agree on the ban on neonicotinoids proposed by the european commission. the fight against the powerful pesticide lobby is therefore still very tough, but we must insist and achieve a europe without pesticides. it is a common sense decision and it is what the european citizens want.
mr president, i think the commission's answer to my questions on italian taxation has been evasive. in particular, i had asked to assess the compatibility of that procedure with the italian tax principle in the light of the provisions of the treaties on due process. in italy, this illegality has already been declared by the constitutional court in its judgment no 21 of 1961. in fact, solve et repete taxation is in clear contradiction with the principle of equality between citizens. the right to take legal action to protect one's rights limits the protection of the citizen for compensation for damages against the state. what the commission fails to mention in its reply is a very clear point: the court of justice has already held that the principle of equal treatment between the public authorities and the citizen is not the same and that to require the citizen to pay a debt which must be ascertained is to infringe the right of the citizen to defend himself and to keep at his disposal assets which are the subject of an unenforceable debt because it has not yet been objectively and demonstrably established.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me thank the committee on international trade (inta) and its rapporteur, ms saïfi, for the work done in preparing this comprehensive report. for those who were not in the room for the related presentation by the committee on development (deve), commissioner de gucht has said he is very sorry to miss the discussion this evening as this is a communication he attaches particular importance to. those of you who are inta members will recall that, at the beginning of the commission’s mandate, some of you were unhappy with the relatively limited attention paid to trade and development in an earlier communication on trade, growth and world affairs. but the choice was deliberate. commissioner de gucht wishes to devote a standalone policy proposal just over a year later, starting from the premise that the eu has to adapt its trade instruments to contemporary global realities. we are more linked than ever before to countries that are far away or have much smaller economies. this interconnectedness requires a mix of ambition to keep global markets more open and sensitive to inclusiveness and sustainability concerns. the committee for international trade is in the front line every time the commission makes new trade proposals. we have worked hard together on the gsp reform and the ratification of a number of new-generation trade agreements – most of them with developing economies. members of the committee have seen for themselves how sustainability concerns were addressed. in many respects, we were able to give deserved prominence to human, social and environmental rights, thanks to the new powers acquired by parliament under the lisbon treaty with respect to trade policy. more work remains to be done before the european parliament elections. the commission’s priority this year with respect to developing countries will be to ensure that the 9th wto ministerial conference in december delivers tangible results for the benefit of the poorest members of the wto, in particular through a multilateral deal on trade facilitation. simplifying logistics within a country and at international borders is actually an affordable way of securing visible development gains. we sincerely hope that other wto members will share our ambition. we have focused for years on most of the software of global trade – bringing down tariffs, agreeing on quotas, rules of origin, etc. in some places, the hardware is still badly in need of an upgrade to catch up with so many new opportunities in the global marketplace. both the inta report and the previous deve report emphasise country ownership. while we continue to promote trade for development, prospective beneficiaries themselves must identify trade priorities when discussing eu aid programming with us. whether it is trade facilitation, support in formulating trade policy, building specific technical capacity or new physical infrastructure, we cannot help unless requested. another deliverable for this year will hopefully be a commission proposal for a comprehensive eu initiative to promote responsible mineral sourcing. colleagues working on the initiative are seeking ideas to present a reasonable and effective proposal. we recognise that trade opportunities constitute a powerful incentive and we would like that potential to be used responsibly. a public consultation was launched just before easter and will run until the end of june. the views of parliament and its constituents will be much appreciated. thank you for your attention and your interest in trade and development.
the agenda for joint debate includes:- the report by othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms, and amending directive 2002/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate ((com2011) 0453 c7-0210/2011 2011/0203 ((cod)) (a7-0170/2012), and- the report by othmar karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms (com2011) 0452 (a7-0172/2011 2011/0174 (cod)) (a7-0171/2011).
mr president, it is undeniable that the banks have had a great deal of responsibility for the crisis we are experiencing. any measure which can help to prevent similar situations from recurring is therefore to be supported. europe needs strong banks that are accountable to the economy and the public, and it is not acceptable for taxpayers to come to the rescue of institutions that are in difficulty because of reckless operations. the simplest solution, in my view, would be a proposal i have been making for some time, namely a return to a clear and distinct separation between commercial and non-commercial banks, on the model of the glass-steagall act of 1933 in the united states. this formula worked without problems until the end of the 1990s and i do not think it is a mere coincidence that since its abolition international financial disagreements have multiplied. in any case, the proposals we are discussing today have at least one clear merit: the commission has finally put a limit on the compensation and bonuses for managers in this sector. i think it is immoral for the perpetrators of disasters to be rewarded with millions of euros. just a year ago, mr antonio vigni, who is now under investigation by the public prosecutor's office, left his post as general manager of banca monte dei paschi with a fortune of over five million euros. now we know the damage he did by putting one of europe's leading banks on the back burner. i believe that linking remuneration to results is a logical and necessary measure, which may even help to restore credibility, which is now severely compromised. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i too join in thanking mr karas and all the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work done by parliament. the challenges posed by the 2008 financial crisis have necessitated a radical reform of the european banking system and the capital requirements directive is an important pillar of this reform. the new rules transpose the basel iii rules, will make european banks more resilient and will strengthen their risk management and loss absorption capacity. i am glad that parliament has managed to maintain the amendment on the sme supporting factor, which will undoubtedly be crucial to supporting business activity by avoiding a credit crunch. supporting small and mediumsized enterprises is essential if we are to boost european economic growth, but we have strict limits on public debt and deficits. while sound public finances are a must, it is time for governments to focus on growth. so yes, budgetary discipline, but it is necessary to focus strongly on economic development in support of the real economy. the sme supporting factor is the right step in this direction, as it will facilitate credit to enterprises by encouraging entrepreneurial activity, which will lead to more employment. i also welcome the increase in the threshold of 1.5 million for loans to smes, but i think, also addressing commissioner barnier, that more can be done to raise the ceiling and increase the economic impact of the sme supporting factor.
mr president, europe will have new rules to strengthen the banking system. the aim is to avoid future crises and speculative derivatives but also to achieve transparency on the profits of banks, on the taxes they pay and on the subsidies they receive. all this information, which will have to be public. in addition, there are clear limits on superbonuses and, above all, new rules that look at the real economy. the call for guarantees for access to credit by smes was accepted. the so-called sme supporting factor for loans to enterprises has been introduced. a concrete and important step forward in the service of the real economy, development and employment: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done.
mr president, the debate has shown that some people are surprised that so-called populist movements are on the rise throughout europe. it is clear that europe must have made some mistake, otherwise it would not be so. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is a clear indication of the far-sightedness of european policies! in our view, europe must change 360 degrees. i am referring to trade policy: we must protect our own production, we cannot accept unfair competition from third countries any longer. i am referring to the schengen treaty, which has created many problems, including security problems, in our reality and which must be reviewed. i am referring to the euro, which as it stands is not working at all, especially for the countries of southern europe. i am referring to the ecb, which should be less concerned with banks and more concerned with businesses, helping them to invest. i'll close with a question: why do we not use the billion euros we have given turkey for its accession to the european union to help the unemployed and our businesses in difficulty?
mr president, on the agenda, i would like the presidency to inform lady ashton that it would be appropriate for her to be in this house as soon as possible to explain what actions she has taken against two european - italian - soldiers unjustly detained in india and what her views are on the italian ambassador being held in that country.
mr president, i wish to inform you that my voting machine is not working.
mr president, the european network and information security agency, which was set up in 2004, has made a considerable contribution in recent years, but it needs to be improved to meet the new challenges of information technology. the field of network and information security is evolving at such a rapid pace that what is appropriate now may not be so in the near future. in addition to a more precise definition of the agency's field of action, it is therefore necessary to give it an organisational structure with the flexibility to keep up with the times.
in writing. − since its establishment in 2004, this agency has been doing its best to fill a huge gap. it is no small task to ensure network and information security across europe, including by assisting member states where necessary. the skills acquired by these technicians are increasingly indispensable, to the point of being able to enhance them, as the colleagues at itre suggest. in addition, the principle of subsidiarity requires us to start cooperating with counterparts in other major economies, given the transnational nature of the networks we monitor. i fully agree with the conclusions reached at the end of the informal trilogues, and even more so with the work done in parliament, and i congratulate the rapporteur. finally, i believe that the choice at this particular historical moment to confirm the seat of the agency in heraklion (canada) is a good sign of closeness to greece and of helping the local economy through the pipeline that will be created.
in writing. − the enisa agency, created in 2004, has been extended until september 2013. the proposal aims to extend the system for a further seven years, modernise and simplify it through a series of recommendations, including the strengthening of the computer emergency response teams (cert) and the appointment of a coordinating function to overcome the shortcomings of the system. given the importance of the tasks carried out by the agency - support for eu policy and legislation, voluntary public-private cooperation, cooperation with international organisations, etc. - i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the proposed regulation aims to strengthen and modernise the european network and information security agency (enisa) and establish a new mandate for a period of five years. the evaluation of the proposed mandate of enisa shall be the sole responsibility of the itre committee. i agree with the rapporteur that further consideration is needed on the duration of the agency's mandate (5 years) and on the time limit for its evaluation (3 years), and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency must be enabled to contribute to network and information security as it has done so far. to do this, it is therefore necessary to promote a constant updating of the system: the commission will be able to coordinate the parties concerned more effectively and efficiently than is possible through mere cooperation between member states.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency was established in 2004 to improve the security of the european community's information and telecommunications networks. by cooperating with the commission and individual member states, enisa ensures increased security of information networks and assists the commission in the development of relevant community legislation. the agency has proved to be a valuable tool in preventing and addressing problems in the member states. the commission has proposed to extend the mandate of the agency. in addition, given the rapid and continuous evolution of this sector, it proposed updating the role of the commission so that it could play its role even more efficiently and effectively. i am in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the agency's mandate and strengthen its role within the eu: the work of enisa in the field of information security is certainly more effective than the mere cooperation of the policies of individual member states. in a context of continuous change, i believe that it is necessary to strengthen its role so that it is prepared to face the challenges of the future.
in writing. the european union agency for network and information security was established with the aim of ensuring a good level of security in electronic communications and the protection of the privacy of personal data. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. following an updated study of the agency's usefulness and functions, it was concluded that the agency had achieved its objectives since its establishment in 2004, but that some further guidance was needed to improve its work in the coming years. the proposal for a regulation on the next period of operation of the agency discusses the most appropriate location for the agency, which is currently located on the greek island of crete. it also provides for greater scrutiny of the work of the agency by parliament, the establishment of an executive board and minimum standards for the evaluation of the agency's performance. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of the introduction of the procedures for delegated and implementing acts. in particular, i believe that delegated acts can better achieve the adaptation of the technical specifications and the use of noise deterrents and implementing acts the procedure and format that member states must follow in fulfilling their reporting obligations. these two ways of doing things make it much easier to adopt the appropriate measures for the capture of whales and thus make european action in this field more effective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 812/2004 laying down measures relating to the incidental catching of cetaceans in fisheries and amending regulation (ec) no 88/98. whale populations have declined dramatically, while tens of thousands of whales die each year in union waters. regulation (ec) no 812/2004, which is seriously flawed, focuses mainly on the use of acoustic devices to deter incidental capture of cetaceans, although the latter face various threats such as habitat degradation, collisions with ships and underwater noise pollution. for these reasons, i hope that this proposal will contribute to the establishment of a general legislative framework for the protection of cetaceans similar to the marine mammal protection act in force in the united states.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 812/2004 of 24 april 2004 laying down measures relating to the incidental catching of cetaceans in fisheries and amending regulation (ec) no 88/98 currently confers on the commission certain powers which need to be reclassified into measures having the character of delegated acts and measures having the character of implementing acts. i agree with the rapporteur, who suggests some amendments to the commission proposal, and that is why i voted in favour of the proposal for a stricter definition of the circumstances in which the commission itself is empowered to adopt delegated acts.
in writing. − with regard to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 812/2004 laying down measures relating to incidental catches of cetaceans in fisheries and amending regulation (ec) no 88/98, amendments have been made to the commission text which provide, in line with the obligations of the member states, for the commission to submit, by the end of 2015, a legislative proposal concerning a general legislative framework to ensure the effective protection of cetaceans from all threats. this proposal is part of a context in which whale populations are in serious danger and are therefore drastically declining due to underwater noise pollution and habitat degradation. it is therefore desirable to discourage their accidental capture by specific provisions providing for the use of hearing aids. at the same time, certain amendments are being made to the commission proposal, namely a stricter definition of the circumstances in which the commission itself is empowered to adopt delegated acts. i therefore express my favourable opinion.
in writing. - after rather technical negotiations, the council reached an agreement with the competent authorities of the republic of mauritius to allow european vessels to fish for tuna in mauritian territory, with a corresponding financial contribution. i hope that the skill of the european fishermen will generate more than enough revenue to recover this sum.
in writing. - relations between the european union and the republic of mauritius in the fisheries sector began in 1989. they were extended until 2007, but when the 2003-2007 protocol expired, the parties were unable to reach an agreement on the conditions for its renewal. since then, the european fleet has had to operate under private access mechanisms. the new efforts made in 2010 to reach an agreement resulted in the fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol, which the commission signed on 23 february 2012. i have voted in favour of the proposal and recommended that the european parliament give its consent to its conclusion.
in writing. - from 1989, when relations between the republic of mauritius and the european union began, until 2003, they were extended until an agreement on fisheries was reached. in this regard, a fisheries partnership agreement and a protocol were signed in 2012. a financial contribution is provided to the republic of mauritius in lieu of the possibility for european vessels to fish in its waters. in addition, european vessels will have to take on board a number of mauritian seamen. the agreement therefore protects the interests of both parties, and if one considers that fisheries are not the main contributor to gdp for the republic of mauritius, it certainly appears to be beneficial for the country itself. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. − at the sitting on 12 december 2012, the president announced, pursuant to rule 6 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, that he had received a letter from the vienna public prosecutor's office, sent on 27 june 2012 by the permanent representation of austria to the european union, containing a request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hans-peter martin. i agree with the rapporteur that the request for waiver of immunity must therefore be assessed under article 9 of the protocol, and i have therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - each member of the european parliament shall, for the duration of each session of the european parliament, enjoy immunity both in the jurisdiction of his state and during parliamentary proceedings. in view of this, however, immunity shall not apply if the member is caught in the act of committing an offence or if his or her removal is requested for serious and well-founded reasons. the case involving mr martin is one of aggravated fraud under articles 146 and 147 (3) of the austrian penal code. he declared a third person as a parliamentary assistant, although this person had presumably never worked for him in connection with his parliamentary activity, and therefore fraudulently induced the european parliament's services to pay out emoluments and social security contributions to that person. in view of the request made by the vienna prosecutor's office, and the finding of probable reoffending, i express a favourable opinion.
in writing. the alleged acts for which the chief prosecutor of frankenthal intends to open an investigation against jürgen creutzmann do not clearly constitute opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of his functions within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. article 9 of the protocol is therefore the relevant provision for examining the request for waiver of the immunity of jürgen creutzmann. i agree with the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights that there is no reason to waive the immunity of mr creutzmann under article 9 of the protocol and the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and the german basic law (grundgesetz), and i therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. the chief prosecutor in frankenthal intends to open an investigation against jürgen creutzmann, member of the european parliament, for negligent bodily injury caused by a road traffic accident in which a passenger suffered serious injuries. since members of the european parliament enjoy immunity during their term of office, which also applies in their country of origin, in order to proceed with investigations and criminal proceedings, it is necessary to lift their immunity by a vote of the members of the european parliament. in view of the facts and arguments, i am in favour.
in writing. − at the sitting of 10 september 2012, the president announced, pursuant to rule 6 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, that he had received on 9 july 2012 a request from the vienna public prosecutor's office to waive the parliamentary immunity of ewald stadler in the context of pending proceedings against him. i agree with the legal affairs committee that ewald stadler's parliamentary immunity should be waived and on the basis of the foregoing considerations and in accordance with rule 7 (2) of the rules of procedure i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. the vienna prosecutor's office intends to open a preliminary investigation into ewald stadler, member of the european parliament. the mp is suspected of attempting to use serious coercion against a member of the austrian parliament, asking him to intercede for a change of the beneficiary of grants under the press promotion act for the year 2007. in return, information that would have linked the mp to far-right groups that would have led to his resignation would have been withheld. at the legal affairs committee meeting, mr stadler said that the charges were all false. however, to be certain of the merits of the charges, it is necessary to proceed with the waiver of parliamentary immunity. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to express my satisfaction at the approval of the allocation of eur 5 million from the egf to former employees of antonio merloni spa. the next step will be the final agreement of the council, which is scheduled for 22 april. the egf will provide the 1 517 unemployed workers with a range of co-financed services to help them re-enter the labour market. the support measures for workers over 50 years of age, who represent 12% of the workforce concerned, are also important. it is vital not to squander the know-how and skills of the workers employed in what was, it is worth noting, the fifth largest producer of household appliances in the eu. legislative and budgetary instruments such as the egf are important, but action is needed before firms fail with rapid and concrete action. it is also important to reinstate the extension of the 'crisis derogation' which allows financial assistance to be provided also to workers made redundant as a result of the current economic crisis as well as to those losing their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report because of the great symbolic value of the merloni affair. ten years ago, the company was one of the largest producers of household appliances, considering the size of the company and the size of the italian economy. the delay in the application until today's vote is a bitter end to this whole affair. it is now essential to make good use of the five million granted, ensuring that the 1 500 workers concerned by the measure, many of whom have qualifications as plant operators, find in this intervention opportunities for conversion and qualification which, although amid the many difficulties of the italian labour market, allow them to recover also in terms of dignity and professional quality the effects of the 2010 crisis. the extraordinary administration status establishes a conservation purpose for the assets of a company and thus removes agile from the risk of liquidation established by other insolvency proceedings. it is aimed at the consolidation of the economy in order to avoid the dispersion of company assets and the loss of a large part of jobs.
in writing. - all workers affected by the crisis deserve our solidarity and the help of the european institutions, within the framework of the rules adopted and the budget available. in my regret at the fact that yet another italian company is requesting access to this instrument, i am in solidarity with those affected and i voted in favour of the allocation of these funds and i am very sorry that the council has blocked the extension of this budgetary chapter beyond 2011.
in writing. - i welcome the intervention of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of antonio merloni sp. the actions financed may include, inter alia, relocation and assistance in active research, training voucher and postgraduate training, entrepreneurship assistance and bonus for setting up a business, recruitment incentives, allowance for active research and participation in the costs of changing residence in order to accept a new job. i believe that this is a practical help which i hope will give a future to many families affected by the crisis.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion on the proposal for the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) because i consider it essential to provide support for workers who are affected by the consequences of major changes in trade flows, in order to facilitate their integration into the labour market. a clear example is merloni spa, a company in the household appliances sector, which was forced to lay off 1,517 redundant workers at its ancona and perugia plants as a result of the crisis (only 700 of the 2,217 were re-employed). although the company was declared insolvent as early as 2008, the egf could only intervene in 2011, some three and a half years later; in this respect, the institutions concerned should make the necessary efforts to speed up the mobilisation of the egf in order to ensure the reintegration into the labour market of individual redundant workers, and in particular of workers over 50 years of age, who, as in the merloni case, represent 12% of the workforce concerned. it is also important to provide for the possibility of accessing the egf irrespective of the type of contract and employment relationship, and that assistance from the egf may only co-finance active labour market measures leading to long-term employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, to ensure that workers affected by the merloni crisis have access to the instruments provided for by the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund). this company, once one of europe's leading manufacturers of household appliances, is a clear example of the damage caused by globalisation, for which this specific aid instrument is used: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the package of services approved includes measures such as career guidance, assistance for active research, assistance for self-employment, the training voucher, support measures for workers over 50, an allowance for active research, recruitment bonuses and a contribution for training mobility and bonuses for territorial mobility. the european union must be close to the businesses and production sectors that are suffering, and i therefore also welcomed the aid approved today for the agile company, an information and communications technology company operating in several italian regions, including tuscany, and i hope that these measures will help workers in difficulty.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in global business models. in agreement with the joint statement by the european parliament, the council and the commission adopted at the conciliation meeting, which confirmed the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - today we have secured more than €5 million in aid to help 1,517 workers made redundant after the closure of antonio merloni spa find new jobs, and more than €3 million for 856 former employees of the italian it services firm agile s.r.l. europe has shown itself to be close to the real needs of its citizens, and the use of the resources made available by the european globalisation adjustment fund has enabled a decisive and effective response.
in writing. - antonio merloni spa, the fifth largest producer of household appliances in the union, suffered a drop in sales as a result of the economic and financial crisis which also hit our country, leading to the closure of its business and the consequent loss of jobs for over 1500 workers. an application was therefore submitted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund and the commission submitted to the budgetary authority a request for a transfer of a total amount of eur 5 037 482 from the egf reserve. since the request meets the criteria for mobilising the fund, i am in favour of it.
in writing. - mr president, unfortunately agile s.r.l., like many other european companies, has suffered from credit crunch due to the economic and financial crisis. i congratulate myself on today's positive vote which has enabled italy to obtain €3.6 million out of the total cost of the globalisation adjustment fund package of measures to help 856 former employees of the information technology services company agile s.r.l. find new jobs. a package is designed to help workers benefit from assistance in relocating and finding work, vocational training and skills upgrading, postgraduate education, entrepreneurship promotion and business start-up grants, recruitment facilities and more. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commission for proposing to maintain the egf in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - the agile story is particularly tormented, with many pages still unfinished and disputes dragging on in the courts of justice; it is important to stress today, however, that the mobilisation of 3.68 million for almost a thousand workers is, in the terms of the commitment established, an opportunity to try - albeit under almost prohibitive conditions - to preserve and improve human capital. given that work is equally dignified, it should not be forgotten that agile graduates are mostly highly qualified ict personnel, women and men who, apart from the company, worked in a sector that has experienced, if not a real bubble, but certainly a sudden change from a horizon of great development and prospects to an unprecedented crisis. it is a clear fact that the ict services sector, partly dependent on large public contracts that have since disappeared, has been experiencing a dramatic contraction since 2009. protecting human capital and the investment of the state and of families in training is a priority: i am convinced that the package of personalised reintegration measures will be a small, precious breath of fresh air in the affected regions, including piedmont and lombardy.
in writing. - all workers affected by the crisis deserve our solidarity and the help of the european institutions, within the framework of the rules adopted and the budget available. i am sorry that yet another italian company is asking for access to this instrument, but i am in solidarity with those affected and i voted in favour of allocating these funds. i very much regret the council's block on the extension of this chapter of the budget beyond 2011.
in writing. − i welcome the allocation of €3.6 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the reintegration of 856 workers from agile, which went bankrupt in autumn 2011. the intervention will specifically concern workers in ten establishments, including pregnana milanese. the actions financed may include, inter alia, relocation and assistance in active research, training voucher and postgraduate training, entrepreneurship assistance and bonus for setting up a business, recruitment incentives, allowance for active research and participation in the costs of changing residence in order to accept a new job. i believe that this is a practical aid which i hope will give a future to the many families who have been unfairly affected by the crisis in the information technology sector and by the unfair management of the companies involved.
in writing. - as the italian delegation of the epp, we strongly supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for former agile workers. in the context of the economic crisis we are experiencing, we have repeatedly stressed the importance and effectiveness of an instrument such as the egf. by using the most appropriate criteria for destination, europe is once again demonstrating its solidarity mission and its concreteness in helping those who suffer most from the effects of a devastating economic crisis. the approximately €3 million for former agile employees will have the immediate effect of reintegrating them into the professional training, employment and apprenticeship circuits.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. in parallel, a tripartite consultation may be organised to reach agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts required. i agree with the rapporteur that the tripartite consultation can take a simplified form, and i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − agile s.r.l., an italian it service provider, has been hit particularly hard by the economic and financial crisis, which has hit the information technology sector in the eu particularly hard, to the point of a large number of redundancies. the company, however, attempted to avert closure by implementing investment operations that were hopefully profitable. however, these measures have not helped to avoid the insolvency and subsequent redundancies. for this reason, it was considered useful to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up to provide support to workers who have suffered the consequences of the economic and financial situation of recent years, in favour of those made redundant by agile. the conditions for mobilising the fund have been met and i therefore express my favourable opinion.
in writing. - all workers affected by the crisis deserve our solidarity and the help of the european institutions, within the framework of the rules adopted and the budget available. i am in solidarity with those affected and i voted in favour of allocating these funds also to countries less affected by the crisis, in sensitive areas to which we are already devoting attention in other dossiers under discussion in this parliament. i very much regret the council's block on the extension of this chapter of the budget beyond 2011.
in writing. − pursuant to the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million, which may be drawn from any existing margin below the overall expenditure ceiling of the previous year and/or from the commitment appropriations cancelled during the two previous financial years. i have voted in favour of the proposal, agreeing that the necessary amounts should be entered in the budget as appropriations in reserve as soon as sufficient margins and/or cancelled commitments are identified.
in writing. − as a result of the huge economic and financial crisis that hit europe starting in 2008, there were many cases of business closures, resulting in the loss of jobs for thousands of workers. the european union has therefore set up the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers affected by the crisis. in this context, and as a consequence of the relocation of production and tax policies against smoking, the manufacturing industry of cigarettes and tobacco products in the eu has also been affected by the crisis, to the extent that in austria the company austria tabak had to close its plants. this has exacerbated the already difficult situation of workers in the already structurally weak region of bruck an der leitha, with demand for workers falling by 50% in the last year. the criteria for mobilising the fund have been met, and i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. - development cooperation is meaningless if it is reduced to a mere transfer of money. i agree with the work done by my colleagues in inta in their negotiations with the council of the european union to agree on a date close to the entry into force of the obligations arising from the agreements. to stimulate local institutions to play their part, this instrument seems, ex ante, appropriate, and i hope that subsequent monitoring will confirm the goodness of this strategy.
in writing. − it is particularly important that the commission holds consultations during the preparatory work, including at expert level. i agree with the rapporteur that when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, the commission should ensure that the relevant documents are sent simultaneously, correctly and in a timely manner to the european parliament and the council, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − as regards the ratification of certain economic partnership negotiations concluded in 2007 between the european community and a number of third countries, the council of the european union and the european parliament, following a proposal from the european commission, adopted a regulation on the exclusion of certain signatory states or regions from these negotiations. that regulation, amending annex i to council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts in order to re-incorporate into the economic negotiations certain regions or states of the acp group previously excluded, it is also provided that a delegated act adopted pursuant to article 2a shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the european parliament or the council within a period of two months of notification of that act to the european parliament and the council or if, before the expiry of that period, the european parliament and the council have both informed the commission that they will not object. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the rules for the application of this regulation. i therefore vote in favour.
mr president, the european parliament has just decided to refer back to the relevant committees the directive on the timing of greenhouse gas auctioning arrangements, which i agree with because i am against the back-loading proposal. environmental protection - let me be clear - is our top priority, but in this time of crisis, back-loading would have led to a general increase in energy costs which, combined with a significant contraction in production, would have helped to slow down the recovery in the sectors most affected by the crisis, as well as creating further uncertainty for investors. it was not appropriate to ask more of european companies, especially energy-intensive companies. the european commission, before imposing new and more intransigent rules on european companies, must demand that reciprocity rules be respected with non-eu countries that do not agree to be part of a global climate agreement and therefore produce in the absence of adequate environmental protection rules.
in writing. - while expressing a positive view of the ets as a means of regulating and progressively reducing carbon dioxide emissions, i have decided to vote against the european commission's proposal to re-modulate the auction calendar and withdraw some 900 million greenhouse gas emission allowances from the market in order to increase their price. in a period of crisis, economic stagnation and difficulties for the competitiveness of european manufacturing industry, an artificial increase in prices could have meant a further aggravation of the crisis for many industries, especially for those "energy-intensive". in my region, sardinia, the cost of energy for industry is already unsustainable and is the main cause of the closure of many factories and the thousands of unemployed or in cash. a measure designed to artificially increase the price of the certificates would have put at risk the factories which still resist and frustrated the interest of some investors in taking over those which had already closed. if the european emissions trading system needs updating, then work should be done on structural reforms to ensure that companies can also plan for the medium to long term.
in writing. - i voted against the commission's proposal for a backloading mechanism for co2 emissions trading, because there are too many concerns about this initiative. i have always had doubts about this system, and in particular about its actual effectiveness in helping to reduce co2 emissions, a laudable objective which certainly deserves support. in the light of the poor results achieved by the ets, and even more so in the light of the inherent problems which have emerged in conjunction with the economic crisis and the contraction in industrial production, it may be worthwhile to consider alternative solutions. the commission's attempt to intervene in an existing system which was assured of being able to self-regulate, with the sole purpose of artificially increasing the price of emission allowances, is a reflection of these difficulties and would represent an undue distortion of a market on which many investors rely, as well as a further burden on already tried and tested undertakings.
in writing. - discussions on this subject cannot be left without a thorough reflection on the development model we want and how to achieve it. in the present economic climate we cannot afford to have two commissions working to conflicting conclusions and we must coordinate our efforts better. i believe that at the moment, in these circumstances, a mandate to negotiate cannot be given until parliament has been able to agree on how to achieve the environmental policy objectives and how to compensate for the losses that the industrial sector is expected to suffer, especially in terms of employment. in the absence of a serious and credible strategy, environmental issues will have to undermine the economic well-being of thousands of families who depend on the industrial sector for their livelihood.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal to amend the rules on co2 emissions trading which was intended to freeze temporarily 900 million tonnes of co2 allowances with the aim of raising the price (or at least containing the fall). without forgetting the fight against climate change, i believe that, at this time of crisis and economic difficulties, backloading would have led to the closure or relocation of our companies outside the eu, as the minimum price for co2 allowances would have been set by the european commission, not the market, as has been the case so far. it should be said that the emissions market has not always been an incentive for the use of clean technologies, so the whole system would probably have to be rethought, with the eventual overcoming of this mechanism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of rejecting the european commission's proposal to artificially change the price for ets emission allowances. the introduction of this mechanism, which is itself rather questionable, was intended to sell these shares on the free market, at prices determined by supply and demand. the european commission was surprised by a drastic reduction in the cost of these emissions, which should be welcomed, since the environmental objective would be achieved at a lower cost to producers and polluters. the word pollution should not be understood in the usual negative sense of the term, but as an obvious result of a production process, which cannot therefore be eliminated. the european union would do well to ask itself why the prices of this system have fallen, which is due to the lower productivity of european industry: if the back-loading measure had been passed, the situation would certainly have worsened dramatically, and in a time of crisis like this we cannot afford to have more companies close, with a consequent, predictable and unsustainable decline in employment.
in writing. − the european union emissions trading system (eu ets) is a key tool for cost-efficient reduction of eu industrial emissions and since the start of the second trading period in 2008, emissions have been reduced by more than 10%. although i do not fully agree with the rapporteur, i voted in favour of the proposal, believing that the commission should have the power to adjust the auction calendar adopted pursuant to article 10 (4) of directive 2003/87/ec.
in writing. − the current economic crisis has caused an oversupply of greenhouse gas emission certificates, causing their price to fall on the market. the european commission, which has the power to manage this system, has put forward a proposal for artificial intervention to correct the natural course of the market. as chairman of the itre commission i am opposed to the commission's back-loading proposal. back-loading is the temporary withdrawal of emission allowances from the market. firstly, i believe that you cannot intervene in a market which is designed to be free. in addition, the current european economic crisis, which has particularly affected the manufacturing and steel sectors, cannot support an additional energy cost. our priorities are growth and jobs: a new tax on the crisis is not the way to achieve our objectives.
in writing. − in view of a cost-efficient reduction of eu industrial emissions, the eu emissions trading scheme (eu ets) has proved useful, producing an emission reduction of 10%. in fact, this can be seen as partly a consequence of the economic and financial crisis which has drastically reduced commercial and productive activities. the system is therefore faced with serious imbalances, with a significant surplus of allowances on offer, with an upward trend. the price of carbon has therefore fallen significantly, and this has led to a decline in investment in low-carbon technologies. short-term and long-term measures are therefore necessary to remedy this imbalance by adjusting the auction calendar for allowances also for the third period. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. - mr president, i am voting in favour of the report as a political act with the value of facilitating and building consensus around the objectives of europe 2020 and the principles on which the eu ets is based. it is reasonable to support the work of icao and offer a conciliatory gesture on a matter which has been hotly debated in the institutions and in the courts. the temporary amendment to directive 2003/87/ec is therefore a good thing, but in a context of clarity that encourages concrete steps towards a global emissions governance policy: more explicitly, i agree with the net declaratory in the interest of legal certainty; i agree with the limitation to the year 2012 for reasons of fairness and market transparency. i agree with the statement, which must be made clear at the time of approval, that this derogation is linked to substantial results of the work of the icao assembly, with a roadmap that does not expose the assembly to the risk of seeing an established strategy enshrined in the fundamental documents and constituent international agreements being dismantled. in this sense, the investment constraint on the proceeds of the auctions for the purpose of implementing a global mbm should also be assessed positively.
in writing. - i am in favour of this measure. the contents of the report are not exactly what i wanted, but in times of crisis we must act quickly and get as close as possible to the intended results. the speed with which this measure has come to a vote before this house shows how efficient and conscientious our colleagues have been in following up this dossier in the envi and tran committees.
in writing. − protecting the european market, and not only the european market, from any distortions that could jeopardise its results is one of the main tasks of this institution. i voted in favour; i think it is right to include the aviation sector in the ets precisely to ensure equal treatment and avoid possible (and just) complaints. it is also important to remember that there are other issues at stake in the issue of greenhouse gas emission trading. the debate is much broader. we have expressed our deep concern with the epp about the proposal to withdraw from the market the quantity of allowances needed to bring the price up. this proposal calls into question the competitiveness of the whole european manufacturing sector. the crisis has brought the problem of the cost of energy to our companies into sharper focus. it is the main item of expenditure in the budgets. many companies, i am thinking for example of the manufacturing sector, faced with a further increase in the cost of energy (the first consequence if the measure were to pass) would be forced to close down. a thorough and rapid reflection on this subject is therefore necessary, followed (within a reasonable time) by the facts. i am thinking of concrete measures to bring growth back, not measures which would further stifle business, big and small.
in writing. − in 2008, after long and careful deliberation, the european parliament and the council reached agreement on the inclusion of aviation in the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system (ets). the rationale behind the inclusion of aviation was the need to address the rapid increase in greenhouse gas emissions from the sector. the commission proposal offers an opportunity to make it unequivocally clear that it is not the european union which is standing in the way of an international agreement. i voted in favour of the proposal, agreeing that reaching an agreement within icao is the preferred solution for all, including the european union.
in writing. - this vote avoids interference with the emissions trading system designed to cut greenhouse gas production, which needs a major overhaul.
in writing. - greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic are continuing to increase: since the 1990s, it's actually doubled. the decision to include aviation in the ets is an important choice to limit the negative environmental effects of climate change; however, this decision will only make sense if we can reach a global agreement. the european commission has put forward a proposal to grant third countries a temporary derogation from the ets for a period of one year. the aim is to reach a global agreement on the co2 emissions system. i am in favour of the commission's proposal: europe must send a strong signal of its commitment to climate change to the rest of the world and facilitate this process of accession by third countries.
in writing. − the aviation system is now producing significant amounts of greenhouse gas emissions, which are expected to increase in the coming years. for this reason, it is considered that aviation should be included in the european union emissions trading scheme (ets). the legislation received unanimous support from the council and a large majority in parliament. despite objections to this initiative by airlines, the committee on transport noted that 'the inclusion in the community scheme of trading in emission allowances of third country aircraft arriving or departing from community airports is legally admissible'. the court of justice confirmed this in 2011. the impact of such legislation on the cost of flights for passengers is very small and depends on the length of the journey. however, arrangements are needed to conclude an international agreement in a short time. i am in favour of this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the package on strengthening the banking sector presented by mr karas because i believe it is a great step forward towards a safer and more solid financial system. i am convinced that we must continue on the road to a full and efficient banking union, because only then can we overcome the unfair differences which today characterize the markets of the euro area and which unfairly penalise industries and productive activities solely on the basis of their geographical distribution. a certain degree of flexibility to allow national states some room for manoeuvre must certainly be maintained, but only with a coherent regulatory framework will we be able to redress the distortions we see today, allowing all players to play on an equal footing. in setting up these rules we must be careful that excessive restrictions on the capital market do not end up making an already difficult situation worse, bringing the whole system to its knees. i particularly welcome the provisions specifically concerning smes, such as the 30% reduction in the risk-rate for loans, and the proposal to halve the risk-rate for loans to finance infrastructure projects in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis that erupted in 2008 has shown us some difficulties and shortcomings in national banking systems, which have required the adoption, at european level, of extreme measures that are not always acceptable. the banking system has been subject to a series of attacks by the media, losing credibility and trust in the eyes of the public, and has become a negative icon of a crisis that shows no sign of abating. the implementation of a set of measures to coordinate and implement the role of the european banking authority (eba) and to review european legislation in the area of the regulation of the role of credit institutions is certainly a step in the right direction towards greater protection of citizens and a reduction of their exposure to the risks associated with and arising from the crisis.
in writing. − following numerous changes in the legislation on access to the business of credit institutions and the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions, it was considered necessary to reorganise the subject by means of a single body of rules. the directive will be the essential instrument for the completion of the internal market, under the dual aspect of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide financial services in the field of credit institutions. in addition, a control system will ensure that auditors are required to inform the competent authorities promptly when, in the performance of their duties, they become aware of facts which could seriously affect the financial situation or the administrative and accounting organisation of the institution. in view of the need for these measures and the correct solutions to the problem of the organic nature of the legislation in this area, i am in favour of them.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the package on strengthening the banking sector presented by mr karas because i believe it is a great step forward towards a safer and more solid financial system. i am convinced that we must continue on the road to a full and efficient banking union, because only then can we overcome the unfair differences which today characterize the markets of the euro area and which unfairly penalise industries and productive activities solely on the basis of their geographical distribution. a certain degree of flexibility to allow national states some room for manoeuvre must certainly be maintained, but only with a coherent regulatory framework will we be able to redress the distortions we see today, allowing all players to play on an equal footing. in setting up these rules we must be careful that excessive restrictions on the capital market do not end up making an already difficult situation worse, bringing the whole system to its knees. i particularly welcome the provisions specifically concerning smes, such as the 30% reduction in the risk-rate for loans, and the proposal to halve the risk-rate for loans to finance infrastructure projects in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications.
in writing. - the capital requirements directive was voted on today; it is a concrete measure to boost growth and employment by supporting entrepreneurship. the 'sme supporting factor' has been introduced, a rebate which reduces the amount of capital that banks must set aside for loans to smes with a turnover of less than eur 50 million and a financial exposure of less than eur 1,5 million. however, the data show that the economic crisis has made smes too vulnerable due to the lack of effective and practical support. there are too many difficulties facing small and mediumsized enterprises. this measure therefore represents a concrete action to support entrepreneurial activity. smes are the backbone of the european economy and of my country. we are exploiting the employment potential of smes, which represent 99% of employment in europe and provide 67% of jobs for the economic recovery.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of information on the use of the euro. this will be possible through a partial sterilisation of bank exposures to smes. this choice, in addition to giving fresh life to the main engine of the european real economy, will make it possible to have ever more solid and reliable banks without draining the credit that businesses so desperately need.
in writing. − the high level group on financial supervision in the eu called on the european union to develop more harmonised financial regulation. in the context of the future european supervisory architecture, the european council of 18 and 19 june 2009 stressed the need to establish a single set of european standards applicable to all credit institutions and investment firms in the single market. the adoption of such a regulation would subject all defined credit institutions and investment firms to the same rules across the union, which would also strengthen confidence in the stability of credit institutions and investment firms. in addition, the european banking authority (eba) was established by regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 24 november 2010 establishing a european supervisory authority. the aim of that regulation is to increase the quality and uniformity of national supervision by strengthening the supervision of cross-border groups. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
mr president, the approval of the ground handling dossier is a sign of the european parliament's desire to ensure greater efficiency and quality in ground handling services at european airports. i personally think that the debate on the dossier has been too much focused on whether or not to further liberalise the sector, increasing the number of service providers from two to three, without taking account of the many innovative elements that have been introduced compared to the 1996 framework. i refer in particular to the provisions to ensure that groundhandling services employees can benefit from protection and guarantees of re-employment, the mandatory introduction of minimum standards of quality of service, the provision of more detailed technical specifications in the selection procedures for tenders and the accounting separation imposed on airport operators in the event that they provide groundhandling services. it is a positive assessment, however, and it is also positive that the approval of this dossier opens the trilogue with regard to the whole aeroports package.
in writing. − in 2011, the commission published a proposal for a regulation on groundhandling services at eu airports. the ground handling sector has been waiting for this proposal for a long time, expecting to see the efficiency and quality of ground handling services enhanced through further market opening. although this proposal represents a significant improvement on the current legislative framework, i believe that some important issues still need to be addressed in order to ensure efficient market opening, based on consistency, transparency and a better service for airport users and therefore for passengers. first of all, the opening up of the groundhandling market must be balanced. over the last decade, this european sector has suffered a marginal contraction, despite the rapid growth in passenger numbers. a full opening of the market would risk increasing pressure on ground staff who would in turn be forced to reduce staff costs, leading to downward pressure on wages and less job stability. in order to ensure transparency and user planning at airports, i believe it is necessary to ensure a common and transparent charging system for centralised airport infrastructure and facilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr zasada's report because i believe that the market for ground services should be liberalized wherever possible, with protection for workers and appropriate quality standards for companies. the text represents a step forward in terms of the quality of the services offered without penalising the social partners involved, and i hope that the council will share parliament's views and that the final text will be adopted.
in writing. the time at which this dossier is being discussed is emblematic of how much contact parliament must seek with everyday reality. in my own area, 2,500 workers in this sector are at risk of losing their jobs, and we cannot agree on some details which are too small to be compared with the tragedy of unemployment for 2,500 families. perhaps it is time to reduce the size of some of the national delegations. we can no longer afford to lose ourselves in procedures under the guise of democracy. the ping-pong effect of this measure is all the more scandalous the more national the majorities are. the commission and our colleagues who are dealing with this issue then reflect on the type of legal instrument and we remember that, especially in times of crisis, every minute we lose represents a huge cost to the community. i voted in favour of the proposed amendments because i think the new compromises reached in the commission are much more sensible than those of december, and i refer in particular to the criterion for the introduction of a second operator, changed from the number of passengers to the volume of goods transported, but i would ask my colleagues to be more efficient in the discussions in the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr artur zasada's proposal because, in a global context where air transport is constantly increasing, i believe that it was necessary to revise, after 15 years, the proposal governing airport ground handling services. i am convinced that by stimulating competition we can improve the quality of services and prevent social dumping. i particularly welcome the proposal to introduce minimum quality standards to ensure greater efficiency at all the major european airports and to increase staffing at all airports which have had at least 15 million passengers and/or 200,000 tonnes of cargo per year over the last three years. clauses have also been introduced to safeguard the rights of staff in the event of transfers, thus ensuring that collective agreements are respected.
in writing. − ground support services, which are essential for the smooth conduct of air operations, comprise the following categories: administrative ground handling and oversight, passenger handling, baggage handling, cargo and mail handling, runway operations, cleaning and landing services, fuel and oil handling, aircraft maintenance, air operations and crew management, ground transportation and catering. i agree that increasing the social pressure on workers in the sector and forcing them into a precarious situation is contrary to the interests of the safety of the population, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - this vote opens up the airport ground handling sector to greater competition, effectively increasing the minimum number of contractors. the aim is to ensure high efficiency in services and to prevent social dumping by introducing minimum quality standards and safeguard clauses for staff transfers. it is now necessary to start negotiations with the council immediately to reach a compromise agreement on the whole 'airports package' in order to revive the whole sector without delay.
in writing. − i am in favour of the proposal to improve the efficiency and quality of ground services at airports in the european union. after a first rejection of the original text, a satisfactory agreement has now finally been reached, which is agreed by the european parliament and the european commission. increasing the number of airport operators from 2 to 3 at the largest european airports will naturally lead to increased competition, which will result in a clear advantage for passengers: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the minimum standards of passenger service.
in writing. the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation on groundhandling services at union airports provides for the opening of the market for groundhandling services. in this way, member states may not prevent each airport user from freely choosing the service to be used and the provider of that service. the airport managing body will have to publish the list of centralised infrastructures present at the airport and, after consulting the interested parties, decide which of these to centralise. users will also be able to self-assist and have free access to the infrastructure. the italian airports concerned by this legislation are 96. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which approves a regulation amending two previous ones governing fishing in the skagerrak, the name of the arm of the north sea between denmark and norway. i am in favour of the obligations laid down in the new rules, such as the landing obligation, and of the accompanying rules necessary to check and inspect that the obligation is being complied with. i am also in favour of evaluation to ensure that citizens respect the rules that are laid down and that they are considered fair and just. people want to obey the law, but they do so reluctantly if they feel that it is unjust. the legislator must therefore identify the most appropriate solutions and do everything possible to ensure that the rules adopted are respected to the fullest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution: skagerrak waters are the only waters shared by member states and third countries and not governed by a fisheries agreement, in which quotas apply and in which third countries have established an obligation to land all catches; it is therefore reasonable to establish a specific set of rules on technical and control measures for the skagerrak which differs from the general regime in force in the union.
in writing. the main objective of the proposal is to establish a ban on discarding at sea in the skagerrak. the present situation, which in some cases involves the discarding of large percentages of total catches, is perhaps the most difficult for the general public to understand and to support in the context of the common fisheries policy. the fact that perfectly edible fish is thrown overboard at a time when the world is struggling to feed its population is considered incomprehensible and even immoral. i also agree that a voluntary system would allow the legislator to put an end to the issues of the size of ships and to fix a correct date for the entry into force of the ban on discarding. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the vote was on a ban on discarding 35 species of fish caught accidentally in the skagerrak arm of the north sea between denmark and norway. this ban will take effect gradually between 2014 and 2016 and will be enforced by a system of remote electronic monitoring system. under this ban, fishing vessels will be obliged to bring all the fish they catch ashore. the new measures will apply to member states with fishing rights in the skagerrak (germany, belgium, the netherlands, denmark, sweden and norway). in addition, the commission should present, by the end of 2015, a legislative proposal for a coherent overall legislative framework to ensure the effective protection of cetaceans from all threats.
in writing. the common desire is to introduce a ban on discarding for fishermen operating in the skagerrak. the present situation means that in some cases they are obliged to discard a great many fish. this is increasingly difficult for european citizens to understand and support, even if it is provided for under the common fisheries policy. the fact that perfectly edible fish is thrown overboard at a time when the world is struggling to feed its population is no longer acceptable and this situation must end immediately.
in writing. - since 1986, fishing in the skagerrak has been governed by an international agreement, which norway has subsequently denounced, and a new agreement is therefore being negotiated. in this connection, it was considered to revise the legislation on fishing in skagerrak waters, making recommendations to harmonize the rules between the european union and norway. first, the obligation to land fish belonging to a total of 25 species listed in annex i to the regulation, followed by a prohibition on releasing them into the sea, except in the case of a high survival rate. it is also proposed that flag member states of vessels operating in the skagerrak install and operate an electronic remote control system and that all vessels of 12 metres or more overall length be required to install equipment for the collection of information and its transmission to the rem remote electronic control system. the legislation would also apply to european vessels transiting the norwegian coast when operating in the part of the skagerrak under norwegian jurisdiction. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
mr president, the judgment of the court of justice on the directive on equal treatment for men and women in the access to goods and services is likely to lead to the paradox that european citizens will pay higher insurance premiums and at the same time women will lose the recognition of that positive discrimination which in risk assessment and on the basis of actuarial and statistical data makes them, for a gender factor, less exposed to insurance risk and therefore beneficiaries of lower premiums. the commission must take corrective action by means of an instrument of equal legal value which also guarantees parliament's right to express its views. the guidelines published in december 2011 are not sufficient and a proposal should have been submitted before the court of justice judgment became effective. the publication of the report on the application of the directive, which is now three years late, could have helped in drawing up this corrective action. this is something we cannot afford, it is not acceptable, and it does not do justice to the efficiency of the commission. it would be right for it to scrupulously adhere to this request after today's largely positive vote.
in writing. − i support this report because the current eu legislation on gender equality must be properly implemented and transposed in all economic sectors and in all member states. the commission should take concrete measures to explain the directive on the ‘equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services’ and its impact. the potential for progress contained in this directive needs to be explained in detail in order to enable both women and men to make appropriate use of its features and possibilities.
in writing. − the entry into force of directive 2004/113/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services has marked an important milestone in the evolution of european gender equality laws. the directive addresses for the first time at union level the issues of gender equality and sex discrimination outside the labour market. the directive prohibits direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of sex in the access to and supply of goods and services which are available to the public. it also prohibits less favourable treatment of women on grounds of pregnancy and maternity, as well as sexual harassment. however, i am concerned about some member states where its transposition has been incomplete, mainly because of the lack of clarity of national laws or their vague and abstract nature. i therefore call on the commission to share best practice with the member states and to provide them with the necessary resources to support positive actions, thereby ensuring better implementation of the respective provisions at national level.
in writing. - i preferred to abstain on this report because, although i agree with its content in general, i considered it essential to reject certain specific points. i am referring in particular to discrimination on the grounds of gender identity and on grounds of maternity planning and access to reproductive health services and gender reassignment treatments provided for by law. in particular, maternity planning is not a european competence but a member state competence. the majority of the house has spoken in favour of these aspects and i therefore preferred to emphasize my position by a final abstention.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the application of directive 2004/113/ec prohibiting discrimination on grounds of sex in the access to and supply of goods and services in both the public and private sectors. i think this is a very important directive because it is intended to prohibit discrimination on grounds of sex in sectors outside the labour market, such as the services sector, where discrimination on grounds of sex often takes place. the directive applies to goods and services offered to the public and which are offered outside the private and family sphere; takes into account cases of discrimination on grounds of pregnancy, difficulties in obtaining loans or credit and calls for the european commission to monitor the different national systems with regard to discrimination linked to breastfeeding or access to public spaces and transport. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following categories of workers: workers who are selfemployed, selfemployed persons, selfemployed persons with disabilities, selfemployed persons with disabilities, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, persons with reduced mobility, etc.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution today because the european court of justice had already been clear in putting an end to the blatant discrimination perpetrated up to now by insurance companies and based on the gender of policyholders. in particular, for life insurance, we think it is unfair that the gender gap should affect the terms of insurance and the price. it is well known that policies differentiate between women (long-term residents) and men (high-risk, high-risk smokers). today, by voting this resolution, we have reaffirmed the supremacy of the rights enshrined in our constitutions and the european charter of rights over the statistics used by insurance companies.
in writing. − the entry into force of directive 2004/113/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services on 21 december 2004 marked an important milestone in the evolution of european gender equality laws. given that the member states had until 21 december 2007 to implement the directive, as provided for in article 17 of the text, although i did not fully agree with the rapporteur, i voted in favour of the proposal, believing that the european commission should have drawn up a summary report to assess this implementation by 21 december at the latest.
in writing. - mr president, today the plenary voted on the motion for a resolution on the transposition and application of council directive 2004/113/ec implementing the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services. the directive was supposed to have been implemented by december 2007, but the european commission informed the rapporteur that the report on the implementation of the directive would not be drawn up before 2014. parliament therefore calls on the commission to publish its report and all available data as soon as possible. calls on the commission and the member states to take concrete measures to explain the directive and its impact, by means of concrete examples; calls on the commission to take into account cases of discrimination on the grounds of pregnancy, birth planning and maternity; calls on the commission to monitor with particular attention any discrimination related to breastfeeding, in particular any discrimination in access to goods and services in public areas and spaces.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to assess the impact and scope of the implementation of directive 2004/113/ec in the member states, which implements the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services, to identify existing gaps and to recommend possible solutions to fill them. after several delays, the european commission informed the rapporteur that the report on the implementation of the directive would not be completed before 2014. the directive has proved controversial in that it refers to the prohibition of differences in insurance policies on the basis of sex, but in the following paragraph, by way of derogation, gives insurance companies a choice where the factor is decisive in the assessment of risks. the directive provides for a shift in the burden of proof: the defendant must prove that there is no breach of the principle of equal treatment on the basis of the evidence adduced by the victim, and bodies to promote equal treatment will be set up. i am in favour of this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on advancing development through trade, because i believe that the eu trade policy could have a substantial impact on development in poor countries. the formulation of trade agreements must drive developing countries to participate properly in the international economy and to benefit from the advantages of the globalisation. europe must be at the forefront of effort to reduce poverty.
in writing. − trade policy is one of the most important areas of action for the coherence of the european union's development policies. the current eu target is to bring the overall allocation for development aid to 0.7% of gdp by 2015. i believe that, in the light of the changing structure of international trade, the ownership of aid programmes by the beneficiary countries, together with transparency, accountability and sufficient resources, is one of the determining factors that can contribute to their effectiveness and success, with the aim of pursuing regional integration. i also believe that it is of fundamental importance that national, regional and local institutions and civil society are systematically involved in the planning and monitoring of these programmes. at the same time, i believe that careful and transparent monitoring of the economic and financial situation of countries receiving development aid should not be neglected. finally, i would draw the commission's attention to the need to take greater account of the new challenges of development aid through trade and to actively contribute to strengthening the capacity of governments to integrate sustainable economic development into their national trade strategies and programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this measure because i was convinced by the approach taken in talking about the role of the private sector in stimulating growth in developing countries. international trade is a very important lever, but empirical experience teaches us that we cannot at all rely on sectors and companies that have come from above, and even more so from a foreign institution. we must encourage local entrepreneurship, create small businesses to support and encourage them, and rely on sectors that can develop skills and knowledge that can in turn stand on their own two feet. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to conclude agreements with the private sector in order to trigger the virtuous circle which leads to self-sustaining employment, income, consumption and investment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it brings to our attention important aspects of trade and the related development issue. as the wto estimates, for every dollar invested in aid to increase the trading capacity of a developing country, there is an increase in its exports of about $42 on average. this is just one example of how trade agreements with developing countries contribute to an overall improvement in the social and economic conditions of developing countries. therefore, encouraging such agreements, identifying inefficiencies and removing them are key steps to continue progressing towards a europe of ever greater solidarity.
in writing. − the eu's trade policy towards developing countries aims to achieve better integration of the developing countries into the international trading system, but lacks clearly defined objectives, risking instead to destroy local production and increase dependence on exports of basic products. despite considerable efforts to liberalize, some developing countries have failed to diversify production and exports. this is where the eu must lend its support, because we must not forget that a large proportion of the population of developing countries still lives in extreme poverty, particularly in the least developed countries. in 1990, only 18% of the population living in extreme poverty lived in the least developed countries, but in 2007 this percentage doubled to 36%. numbers that speak for themselves and which the european union will soon come to the rescue
in writing. − trade policy is one of the most important areas of action for the coherence of the european union's development policies; if used properly, the instruments of trade policy can have a significant impact on the development of poor countries. agreeing that in order to achieve development objectives more effectively, eu trade policy must focus on positive impacts on both local, regional and national economies, and on promoting the diversification of the economies of developing countries, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution on improving development through trade was voted on today in plenary. parliament stressed that since trade liberalisation cannot be taken for granted to lead to growth and poverty reduction, trade and trade-aid policies must be developed on the basis of transparent, inclusive and participatory processes involving all stakeholders. parliament also called for the full implementation of policy coherence for development, including an end to all unfair production and marketing practices, excessive exploitation of fisheries resources and subsidies to agriculture which hamper development and threaten food security. it stressed that investment policy posed two major challenges for developing countries: at national level, this policy must be integrated into the development strategy, providing for sustainable development objectives, while at international level it is necessary to strengthen the development dimension in international investment agreements (iia) and to ensure a balance between the rights and obligations of states and investors.
in writing. - the european union has the power and the duty to implement trade policies that can promote the development of the poorest third countries. in this context there can be no room for protectionism either on the part of the eu or its member states in our trade relations with developing countries. the european union must also be prepared to make sacrifices, such as those it is prepared to make when concluding trade agreements with other partners. the union's intentions must of course be supported by internal changes in developing countries, consolidated by the targeted support of the european institutions. for example, multinational companies, if encouraged by these institutions, can do a lot for these countries, guaranteeing adequate wages and reasonable working conditions and thus leaving a positive imprint of change in these countries. i therefore express my favourable opinion.
in writing. - i fully agree with the report that mrs saifi, together with the inta committee, has submitted to us. i think the european commission has done a very good job in presenting this communication to us and has managed to focus on all the issues that should be given priority. in times of financial austerity, we must also plan development aid well, so that it is not a resource taken from our citizens but a successful investment on which to build the markets on which we ourselves must rely in the future.
in writing. - it is undeniable that trade and investment can be the driving force behind the growth and development of the least developed countries, and some of the points in this report are partially shared. i am referring, for example, to the fact that we must concentrate more on the countries which are paying in the most difficult conditions, with specific and targeted interventions. however, when we talk about international trade we must be extremely cautious and we must carefully evaluate the measures we take, lest they become a boomerang for our economy: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the clearest example, and perhaps the one that comes most naturally to me, as a prato resident, is that of the textile sector, which has suffered and continues to suffer unfair competition from various countries, especially asian ones. the question of relocation, a real economic and social scourge which the european union continues to pretend not to see, but which will have to deal with in earnest sooner or later, should also be examined more closely.
in writing. − south-south trade reached 23% of world trade in 2010; according to the 2011 world trade organisation world trade report, south-south preferential agreements account for two thirds of all such agreements, compared to only one quarter for north-south agreements. and yet, according to the world investment report 2012, emerging economies account for almost half of all global foreign direct investment (fdi). if we add that many countries are still not fully benefiting from trade, that the share of the least developed countries in world gdp is falling, and that, despite a high rate of economic growth, the 49 least developed countries still account for only 1.12% of world trade, exacerbating social disparities, it is clear that the situation is an emergency and an emergency in which the eu must act quickly.
in writing. - investment policy presents two main challenges for developing countries: at national level, this policy must be integrated into the development strategy, taking into account the sustainable development goals, while at international level, the development dimension in international investment agreements (iia) needs to be strengthened and a balance between the rights and obligations of states and investors ensured. agreeing with the eu's call on other aid donors, partner country authorities and local and international private actors in developing countries to assess possible areas of cooperation for sustainable development, i voted in favour of the proposal to maximise the contribution of trade to the achievement of development goals.
in writing. − trade policy is one of the most important areas of action for the coherence of the european union's development policies. we have therefore today emphasized that, if used properly, the instruments of trade policy can have a considerable impact on the development of the poorest and most deprived countries. promoting development worldwide, especially through means other than aid, means preserving the eu's core values and respecting its obligations under the treaties.
in writing. − the european union's trade and development policies must also act as a driver to support the growth of developing countries and contribute to free and fair trade. this is why measures should be taken to increase trade with these countries, and policies should be introduced to provide financial and infrastructure assistance and to create partnerships with the most disadvantaged regions. the european parliament therefore supports the commission's aim of improving synergies between trade and development policies and recommends that the needs and capacities of beneficiary countries be taken into account, by promoting instruments such as regional integration and encouraging developing countries to integrate the objective of economic development into their policies, covering industrial, agricultural and service sectors. i am in favour of this.
the agenda includes the report by marisa matias, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the 2011 annual report of the european central bank (2012/2304(ini)) (a7-0031/2013). the house would of course warmly welcome the president of the european central bank, mario draghi.
madam president, mr draghi, between the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012, the ecb granted over eur 1 trillion to banks in the form of loans at a 1% interest rate. the aim of this operation was certainly one which could be shared, namely to restart the european economy. the problem was that the banks used this money for their own personal interest, for example by investing in advantageous government bonds, as happened in italy. at the same time, there has been a reduction in lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most in need of such support. it was a shameful game and the ecb did nothing to prevent it. the european central bank seems to be more interested in the internal politics of countries than in the real economy. moreover, 2011 is the year of the famous "letter" to italy and the change of government, in which the ecb played a decisive role, as indeed also happened with the choice of the government friendly to athens. mr president, will you also tell us who will be the next italian prime minister and the next president of the republic?
in his speech in amsterdam, mr president draghi rightly stressed that monetary policy cannot take the place of economic policy and that the future of the eurozone depends on the ability of policy to make the right choices and to complete its institutional architecture. we share this position. on the monetary policy front, and in conditions which objectively make it difficult to replicate the anglo-saxon and japanese model of quantitative easing in europe, the ecb has been able to launch original unconventional measures which have been decisive in halting the spiral of the sovereign debt crisis, in particular with its famous whatever it takes and omt programme. the problem is not the ecb's monetary policy, but the eu's fiscal policy and the lack of determination to move towards economic and political union. and yet i would like to point out two critical points in the ecb's action over the last two years. the first concerns the role which the ecb has found itself playing in the field of the fiscal and economic policies of the member states - a role which appears objectively inappropriate, especially in the light of the methodological considerations which it has also made. this concerns the action of the troika in the countries under the programme, but not only. i think, for example, that in the light of the macroeconomic data, it is difficult today to deny that the letter that his predecessor sent in 2011 to the italian government suggesting to advance by one year, compared to the european obligations, the balanced budget was an error in method and substance. the second issue concerns the effects of the ltro on the real economy. i would like to ask a question on this, which is also a proposal: why not imagine, as suggested by bassanini and reviglio among others, a very long term refinancing operation to support long term investments? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr draghi, at a time when europe is going through an unprecedented economic and social crisis, the economic weakness of the eurozone is in plain sight. the austerity measures imposed on european citizens have failed: the unemployment rate for the euro area rose from 7.6 percent in 2007 to 11.4 percent in 2012, while a large number of cash-strapped firms are closing their doors. the future of europe depends to a large extent on the redefinition of the role of the central bank: the united states and japan rely on strong central banks, which govern the currency to support exports; the european central bank must be able to intervene more effectively in real economic growth and support the flow of liquidity to firms that are dying of credit. italian banks, despite having received more than 250 billion euros from the ecb in 2012 alone, instead of investing in small and medium-sized enterprises, have turned off the credit taps, preferring to protect their treasury by buying government bonds. the ecb has to start over from here: the commission's proposal is to put businesses, citizens and productive investment at the centre of its action in order to try to create a climate of confidence before it is too late.
mr president, i recall that when i asked you why the ecb did not intervene in the case of credit institutions using the money they receive at the 0.75% rate to buy government bonds instead of lending to businesses or, even worse, lending to businesses at rates as high as 10%, you replied: 'the ecb cannot impose restrictions on financial institutions as it is the individual banks that decide on the conduct of their business.' on the contrary, a few days ago he said: "it is a serious problem that banks do not lend at reasonable rates. we cannot and will not subsidize insolvent institutions and governments". so i ask you: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial system is not undermined by the failure of the european monetary system to provide a stable and stable monetary system. have you considered that perhaps, as all the other states in the world do, it is better to print money at the expense of the value of the euro? if you think that the ecb does not have the power to intervene directly in favour of households and businesses because of the treaty, have the courage to ask the institutions to change it!
mr president, commissioner, as you have seen, the approval of the discharge is not in question because, as you know, there is a widespread sensitivity among european citizens to the idea that they are responsible for the way their resources are used: the funds. in the light of the discussion which you have also attended, there are some aspects which should be focused on and on which i believe that a targeted and specific intervention by the commission is necessary. it has been stated, with incontrovertible data, that there is a too high error rate and this cannot remain a simple evocation of principle. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new guidelines for the european year of the environment. a staffing problem is repeatedly raised: the commission has therefore decided to extend the period of validity of the new rules to the period from 1 january 1993 to 31 december 1993. finally, i think it is very important to have national rules to improve spending: it is not enough for parliament, the commission and the council to be virtuous, it is also necessary for the individual member states to behave in the same way!
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, it is clear that the european parliament should be the first to set an example of efficiency and cost reduction in this time of global crisis. however, the example we are giving again this week is the opposite: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no logic in having more seats for this parliament and we must talk about this more and more because the citizens need to know how we are using their money, in this case wasting it. strasbourg is a beautiful city in the heart of europe, but there are many possible alternatives to the seat of the european parliament. since my amendment to emphasize the need for a single seat has already been rejected in the committee on budgets, i have tabled it again and i really want to see tomorrow whether my colleagues will have the courage to face up to this scandal. a compact european parliament would be a signal which governments could not ignore. this is an untenable situation: europe must listen to our voice, the voice of the millions of citizens we represent here.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs monika hohlmeier, on her excellent analysis of the areas and innovative ways of saving parliament's budget. i am referring in particular to the idea of merging the translation capacity of parliament with the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee. with any budget surpluses, parliament could therefore increase the resources to be devoted to research and assistance to parliamentarians, in order to ensure high-quality know-how for parliamentarians, also as a result of the increasing legislative powers that the european parliament is assuming. the increase of 3.2 percent actually represents a decrease in the budget, if we take into account that the extraordinary expenditure in 2014 and inflation will unfortunately, perhaps, increase. 2014 is going to be a special year: there are additional costs for the functioning of the parliament, because this is the year in which the elections for the new european parliament will take place, with its consequent installation, and additional costs for croatia's accession to the european union. we will therefore have costs for new interpreters, costs for recruiting croatian staff and costs for welcoming new members so that they can start their work here in the european parliament. it is with great regret, therefore, that i would like to point out that the european parliament's budget for 2014 will actually be reduced by 2.89% compared to 2013. it seems that there has been an increase, while in reality there will be a sharp decrease.
mr president, at the press conference on 4 april, president draghi was, inexpressibly, very annoyed by the question whether the seizure of accounts in cyprus could be a model for the whole eurozone in the future. in fact, the directive now before parliament prescribes, more or less, exactly what happened in cyprus and draghi, not by chance, urged parliament and the council to approve it in a hurry, that is, as early as 2014. in essence, this directive requires that, where the cancellation of financial debt may threaten the stability of the system, that debt must be paid, of course by the savers, as happened in cyprus. cyprus, if we are to be serious and sincere, is a test whether these expropriations can be carried out by the financial superbureaucracy that governs us without creating too many problems. the european union is preparing to place the european central bank under the supervision of its creditor, the ecb itself, in order to prevent its failure. no, not at all!
mr president, the economic difficulties facing the member states, which are making efforts to consolidate public finances, must not make us forget that the way out of the crisis is growth based on structural reforms and targeted investment. but the crisis we are living in is also a reminder that one of the reasons for the birth of the european creature is solidarity between peoples, and in this sense i believe that the cyprus rescue package is a valuable element. i hope that all the measures required will be effectively put in place in order to ensure the stability of the financial sector and to put in place decisive action on budgetary adjustment and structural reforms, which can support the competitiveness of the cypriot system, on the path of sustainable and stable growth in the long term. i welcome the initiatives announced by commissioner rehn, but i would ask him to clarify further the measures that the commission intends to put in place to alleviate the problems of cyprus, with reference to the next multiannual financial framework, such as the advance payment of the structural funds provided for in the 2014-2020 budget, the increase in the co-financing rate and with particular reference to the possibility of providing for an exception for the guarantee fund, which is currently excluded, in order to give breathing space to the island's economy. i would also ask minister creighton to provide some additional information on the council's position. i would like to conclude by expressing my confidence in the new cypriot government of president anastassiades, which i believe will do its utmost to reform the economy of cyprus.
mr president, the damage done to europe's credibility and confidence by the disastrous handling of the cyprus crisis is very long and very heavy. the absurdity is that it is not some obscure anti-european force that is causing this, but european bodies, which the commission and the council have left to their own devices without taking matters into their own hands and straightening things out. now they say they have learned their lesson, but there are no accountable people in europe who will pay for their mistakes, and above all there are no real policies or proposals for change. i'll give you two. the first, suggested by the swoboda group leader: we must restore democracy and legitimacy. we must not allow the eurogroup and especially the troika to enjoy these great powers any longer. the troika is a body which i would call embarrassing and unacceptable, composed of a representative of a body of a european institution - the commission, which at least reports to parliament - and two members - i dare say, employees - of international financial bodies which use mostly their own resources. this is unacceptable. the second proposal, by mr ferreira: (the president interrupts the speaker)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me first of all thank you for a very substantive and serious debate and for your often very critical remarks. i have listened to you very carefully, and i can assure you that the commission will take this very important debate into account. i will now make some short comments, and my colleague mr barnier will, for his part, continue on some important issues. firstly, i would like to speak about the specific nature of the cyprus package, which has been referred to in many speeches during the discussion. the cypriot agreement consists of an economic stabilisation programme that is grounded on the financial sector, conditionality, strengthening banks’ capital buffers, improving liquidity conditions, enhancing prudential regulation, and supervision. these are elements that have been common to all programme countries. the bail-in of creditors is in fact less of a novelty than it might appear. after all, the irish programme also included very strong own contributions by bank creditors – over eur 5 billion of junior subordinated debt was bailed-in in ireland. at the same time, ireland’s pension reserve fund contributed close to eur 10 billion. given the heavy reliance of cypriot banks on deposits, a specific feature of the cypriot case is that standard creditor contributions could only deliver a part of the funds needed. the bailing-in of uninsured deposits was a consequence of this. given the unique nature of the cypriot case, the approach followed in cyprus should not be seen as a blueprint for any possible future activities. indeed, there are no templates as such. while each programme may have its similarities, each is tailored to the needs of the country in question. greece, ireland, portugal and spain have all had very clear specific conditions which have been taken into account in the programme design. mr lamberts referred to the programme’s cost, and i think that he has brought up a very important question. the confusion arises from the fact that two entirely different sets of figures are being compared – one net and the other gross. one is based on a set of assumptions from several months ago, while the other takes into account the most recent decisions and the most recent macro-economic projections. in other words, in public debate, in the media, people have, frankly, been comparing apples and pears and coming up with oranges. i shall refrain from remarking that this is what happens when stories are written based on leaked documents. if you look at these two figures of eur 17 billion and eur 23 billion to which mr lamberts referred, the difference is that the eur 17 billion is related to net financing needs, while the larger figure that has been voted on, eur 23 billion, relates to gross financing. moreover, the larger number also includes additional buffers in the second cypriot programme. the combined contribution to the programme from the esm and imf remains eur 10 billion. there is, therefore, no change in the financial envelope available for cyprus. i would like to conclude by saying that the commission urged cyprus to take swift action as early as november 2011 and worked tirelessly to reach quick agreement on a programme over the last year. unfortunately, this proved to be impossible. within the constraints handed to us, the room for manoeuvre was very limited, and not to reach an agreement at all would have been the worst outcome of all. in this regard, i think that what mr swoboda, mr verhofstadt and mr cohn-bendit said about the cumbersome and complex structure of decision-making within the eurozone is very important. indeed, we need to continue to intensify the reform of the eurozone together in order to rebuild our economic and monetary union so that it is up to its task. it is clear that the near future will be difficult. i will sum up. i am very much looking forward to continuing this discussion at the hearing of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on 25 april. i just want to say that the commission will do everything possible to alleviate the social consequences and mitigate the impact on the most vulnerable in society. we will stand by the cypriot people in these difficult times.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in all these crises, the one in cyprus which we have discussed this morning and all the others, there are always two times to act. the first stage is the emergency, the repair, i was going to say if i can use that word surgery. we in brussels know, you may be sure, what efforts are required of the peoples of europe at that time. then there is the time of prevention and the lessons to be learned. it is precisely in this time that not only my action or the proposals i am making are situated, but your action. cyprus is certainly not a model, but there are lessons to be learned in cyprus, as in other crises, and we have been learning them one by one, week by week, for the last three years together. it's bad supervision, you know? we have presented the creation of the european supervisory authorities and, in the spring of next year, we will finally have integrated supervision in the euro area with the european central bank. poor capital in the banks, unjustified and unreasonable bonuses, which encourage risk-taking. you answered on the basis of the report of your colleague, othmar karas. 608 of you voted yesterday on a text which is fundamental to the strength of banks. and then, finally, as many of you have said, clearly announced tools in advance for resolution, for bail-in, a complete toolbox. i presented to you more than a year ago the text which is now under discussion and in june i will present to you the creation of the european resolution authority within the framework of the present treaty. ladies and gentlemen, the commission will not allow it to be said that we are not reacting, that we are not learning the lessons. but it is true that we can and must go faster and we must complete this whole reform as quickly as possible. the commission and the commissioner speaking must continue to have your support.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
thank you, mr. ayala, we'll make this change, we'll take this clarification into account. - after the vote on the whole text
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the commission welcomes the european parliament’s decision to grant discharge to the commission for the implementation of the 2011 budget. i am particularly grateful to the general rapporteur jens geier, and to the coordinators and shadow rapporteurs of the political groups, with whom we had a constructive cooperation throughout the whole discharge process. today’s vote acknowledges that the budget has overall been properly managed. it also points out that all actors involved in the management and control of eu funds have to make further efforts to ensure our programmes deliver value for money. i also call on the co-legislators to take due account of the discharge resolution adopted today in the negotiations on the next financial framework. we cannot afford a new legal framework without the badly needed simplification and the necessary measures ensuring reform of the management of eu money and delivery of added value.
ladies and gentlemen, the vote is suspended to allow the formal sitting to proceed.
uachtarán na héireann. − a uachtaráin, a chomhaltaí de pharlaimint na heorpa, a choimisinéir máire geoghegan-quinn, tá athas orm agus is mian liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil libh as ucht an deis a thabhairt dom labhairt leis an tionól seo ina dtugtar le chéile ionadaithe na saoránach, arna dtoghadh go díreach agus go daonlathach, ó na seacht mballstát fichead, ocht gcinn fichead go luath, den aontas eorpach. mr president, members of the european parliament, commissioner geoghegan quinn, may i thank you for giving me the opportunity of addressing this assembly which brings together the democratically elected representatives of the citizens of the 27 member states, soon to be 28, of the european union. i address you ‘mar uachtarán na héireann’, as president of ireland, an island that has always been connected to matters european; a country that has always looked outward; a people with a very strong connection with the cultures and learning of europe in all its diversity from ancient times; and a nation that has valued the european vocation through every century into the present when ireland holds, for the seventh time, the rotating presidency of the council of ministers in our 40th year of membership of the union. be it in our ancient celtic connections, in our continuous connection with european scholarship, or in our modern consistent support for european unity, we irish have been european in our consciousness and commitment. europe has always had an existence in the irish mind. in our own gaelic language the mythic stories of europe have always been present and some of our modern plays recall the use that was made of the classical sources of greek and roman myths in the gaelic hedge schools that preceded the widespread use of the english language in ireland. the irish language that preceded english had been deeply influenced by ancient european myths, particularly the great myths of sea and exile such as that of homer’s odyssey. in the areas of literature, of course the peoples of europe have had an old and enduring sense of respect for what is a cultural diversity frequently drawn from a shared sense of myth. it was, however, in the tasks of the mind and the spirit that the irish sought to make their greatest contribution. thus it was that in july 1950 the then irish prime minister, john a. costello, together with the irish foreign minister, and later, nobel peace laureate, and founding member of amnesty international, seán mcbride, travelled to luxeuil-les-bains to officially celebrate the 1400th anniversary of the birth of one of the greatest irish and european saints and scholars, columbanus. it was columbanus who with saint gall and others established centres of learning, manuscript illumination, monasteries and communities right across europe: stretching from the north of ireland to bobbio, where columbanus actually died. it is to the spirit of citizenship then, as it might be at a european level, as might motivate europeans who want to give to the two words – european and union – a sense of fulfilment, and of human flourishing that i wish to speak, in this year that has been dedicated as european year of citizens. but just one more word about that meeting in luxeuil-les-bains in july 1950. no more than some meetings of the contemporary period, of which i will not speak, its real agenda was not as publicly indicated. it was declared to be ecclesiastical in purpose; after all, the papal nuncio to france of the time, monsignor roncalli, later to be pope john xxiii, was present, as was the bishop of bobbio. but we know from the work of the distinguished scholar of the sorbonne, marguerite-marie dubois, modernist, linguist, philosopher and lexicographer, that the meeting was really organised so as to facilitate a meeting of robert schuman, foreign minister of france, with like-minded others from a number of european countries anxious to hear and test his great idea for the coming-together of the countries of europe. schuman, who was aware of ireland’s monastic efforts, reached back to recall the early monastic perigrinatio and offered the opinion that columbanus should be ‘the patron saint of all those who now seek to build a united europe’. that schuman meeting, and the others which followed it, assisted by such as jean monnet, was responding to near and terrible events. but we should never forget, and i emphasise it today, that in their response, at that meeting, they recognised the immense value of, and they drew on, the rich scholarship of philosophy, moral instincts and the general impulses of european thought as they sought, not just to replace war with peace, but more importantly, to construct a vision of europe’s people working together in an inclusive way. it was not just any abstract construction. it was a practical proposal drawn from the head and memory and experience, propelled by the heart, and it united economy and ethics in its aspiration for a common shared europe. yet the inspiration and the achievements of the founders of the european union we inherit as legacy cannot be taken for granted. today, citizens in europe are threatened with an unconscious drift to disharmony, a loss of social cohesion, a recurrence of racism and an increasing deficit of democratic accountability in some decision-making of an economic and fiscal kind. these threatening clouds hang over a europe that in more hopeful times had chosen to base its anthem, rather than on anything contemporary, on friedrich schiller’s poem ‘ode to joy’ and its musical setting by ludwig van beethoven in his ninth symphony. parliaments matter; parliaments must continue to matter. centuries of effort have been invested by european citizens in securing the vote, for example. in extending the vote, and it is to parliament that citizens look for accountability, for strategic alternatives. if national parliaments, if the european parliament, were to lose the capacity to deliver accountability where else might it be found? is there an alternative that can meet the requirements of a deliberative democracy? i believe not. but i believe that parliaments must draw on the resources of experience, of inherited intellectual capacity, in all its diversity and above all, from the best of contemporary intellectual work, and they must do so in a pluralist way. i am conscious, in this year of the european citizen, that as parliamentarians you are the elected component of the european union, elected by citizens from your diverse electorates within the same few days. i want to wish you well in all your deliberations together and with the other institutions of the union and particularly in your dialogue with your electorate – the citizens of europe. they, the citizens, place their trust in parliament when they vote and they rightly have expectations of parliaments responding to their needs. i very much welcome the increase in influence and decision-making powers that the european parliament has won in relation, for example, to the multi-annual budgeting process. it was a power that the parliament did not have when i visited here as minister – as president of the council of cultural ministers – in 1996. i wish you well in discharging that responsibility on behalf of the citizens of europe. how would the founders of the european union respond to our present circumstances one might ask? we know how hard the institutions, including this one, have worked to overcome the most serious economic crisis the union has faced since its foundation; how they have struggled to match the speed of their reaction to the ferocity of its onslaught and the onslaught that comes at times from sources that are not accountable at all. we cannot ignore the fact that european citizens are suffering the consequences of actions and opinions of bodies such as rating agencies, which, unlike parliaments, are simply unaccountable. many of our citizens in europe regard the response to the crisis in their lives as disparate, sometimes delayed, not equal to the urgency of the task of showing and often of not showing sufficient solidarity with them in their threatened or actual economic circumstances of today. they feel that in general terms the economic narrative of recent years has been driven by dry technical concerns; for example, by calculations that are abstract and not drawn from real problems, such an unemployment; geared primarily by a consideration of the impact of such measures on speculative markets, rather than driven by sufficient compassion and empathy with the predicament of european citizens who are, after all, together, members of a union, and for whom all of the resources of europe’s capacity – political, social, economic and intellectual – might have been drawn upon, if it had been driven by the binding moral spirit of a union. in facing up to the challenges europe currently faces, particularly in relation to unemployment, we cannot afford to place our singular sole trust in a single hegemonic model to the exclusion of other models that might engage best our problems such as unemployment by uncritically accepting solely and exclusively a version of a logistical, economic theory whose assumptions are narrow and intellectually questionable and largely indifferent to social consequences in terms of their outcomes. rather than any discourse that might define the european union as simply an economic space of contestation between the strong and the weak, our citizens yearn for the language of solidarity, a commitment to cohesion, for a generous inclusive rhetoric that is appropriate to an evolving political union, a union anxious to reach a future of peace, prosperity, inclusion and inter-generational justice, in a sustainable way. this is a serious challenge, not least because if we were to fail we run the risk of an economic crisis leading to a crisis of legitimacy for the union. a union that, after all, in its founding treaties is fundamentally founded on values; values such as respect for personal dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the union draws its legitimacy from the support of its citizens. that connection with the citizens – their belief that the european union is of them and for them – is fundamental. without it, we are adrift and citizens need an appeal to their heart thus, an appeal to their heart as well as their reason. they need reassurances now that this union will keep faith with its founding treaties. it is very many years since jacques delors declared ‘europe needs a soul’, but it remains just as true. we must not forget that that we are the inheritors of a profoundly important set of european values – greek democracy, roman law, the judeo-christian tradition, the reformation, the enlightenment, the great democratic revolution that began in france. europe is therefore more than an economic space of contestation in which our citizens are invited or required to deliver up their lives in the service of an abstract model of economy and society whose core assumptions they are assumed not to question or put to the democratic test in elections. as we face into the future, we need to draw strength from those founding values of the union, values that include cohesion and solidarity – among member states, among the citizens of our union, and between the european union and the rest of the world. we need to work together to apply ourselves to building a better future together – as jacques delors also said of this present crisis: europe does not just need fire-fighters, it needs architects too. a first and urgent task must be to get europe back to sustainable and fulfilling employment and a return to real growth. there is nothing more corrosive to society and more crushing to the person than endemic unemployment, particularly among the young. with 26 million people across the union without work, 5.7 million young people, and 115 million people in our union at risk of poverty and social exclusion; we simply cannot allow this to continue. irish presidencies have always drawn practically from the spirit of the founding treaties and the current irish presidency has, therefore, put job creation at the top of its agenda. the european council has agreed that addressing unemployment is the most important social challenge we face. at last month’s social summit, mr president, rightly you warned of the repercussions of the spread of unemployment and poverty across the union. therefore i commend the agreement reached in the european council in february on the youth employment initiative, and the subsequent proposals from the commission to make it operational by the start of next year. the matter is urgent and i also very much welcome the agreement reached in the council on the youth guarantee that will ensure all young people under the age of 25 a good quality offer of employment, education, apprenticeship or training within four months of being unemployed. but we need to do more. we need to ensure that women participate in the workplace as equals; that older workers are not left on the sidelines; and that the long-term unemployed are fully equipped to find their way back into today’s work place. we must, above all, ensure that, for all these european citizens that a loss of employment does not lead to exclusion from participation, particularly in the cultural space of one’s own community. we need also to consider how to encourage people to create jobs. we need to value and support our small and medium enterprises, the lifeblood of so many of our communities. we need to sustain those who want to create opportunity for themselves and for others. we need to encourage creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship. a generous vision then of europe is, of course, not one that looks solely inwards. the european model has inspired many others on their journey to peace and democratic institutions. while its light may not have dazzled so brightly in recent years, europe can yet be a beacon of hope and encouragement for many less fortunate people in the world. it can give a lead, for example, by speaking with a unified voice on climate change, recognising that those least contributing to our global problem are paying the highest price, even as i speak and we meet today. europe already is of course the largest donor in the fight against hunger and in the efforts at scaling up nutrition, and that is something europe can build on. how the european union engages with the rest of the world is a major test of its authority and its credibility. will the union allow its current economic difficulties to undermine its commitment on the great global challenges of our day – hunger, poverty, human rights, climate justice? i hope not. will we reaffirm rather the generous idealism at the heart of the european vision by rededicating ourselves to tackling these problems in solidarity with other partners? i hope we do. for indeed, measures that replace the millennium development goals – how they respect diversity, recognise different paths to development, have human rights at their centre – will be a major test, not only for europe, but for the global community. i believe that a european union that has the courage to face its past, including its darker periods of empire, with honesty, and its future with a commitment to values that are inclusive of all humanity, with a discourse that respects diversity, has a profound contribution to make – not only to its own citizens in europe but to the global community. it can give a lead in creating a form of ethical globalisation that recognises intergenerational responsibilities. such an integrated discourse as might allow for this to happen, i say frankly, is missing just now. (applause)the prevailing narrative seems to be trapped intellectually in a structure of thought which it appears unable to challenge, from which it seems unable, or at times even unwilling, to escape or exit. in the absence of considering, however, other possible models or approaches, we are in danger now of drifting into and sustaining a kind of moral and intellectual impotence. yet we have available to us, i repeat again, a rich legacy of intellectual, radical work upon which to draw from the past and in the contemporary world. there is, in our shared intellectual heritage, so much upon which we could draw. let us remember in the energetic pursuit of new thought that, for example, characterised the european enlightenment – itself formed from the thought of other ancient enlightenments – that there are some powerful examples of dissident and radical thought. let us never forget the singular example given by those dissident thinkers in their time, denis diderot, immanuel kant and herder. they in their times identified the flaw in the enlightenment thinking that supported empire, with its insatiable drive, and they courageously challenged it through their books, pamphlets and public expressions. the logistical strand of economics which today holds sway and stands as a single hegemonic model of economic theory, not only in europe, is the flaw of our times. this strand of neoclassical economics is of course useful for limited and defined tasks. it is insufficient however as an approach for our problems and our future. we need new substantive pluralist political economic models and an emancipatory discourse to deliver them, and i suggest that this is possible. because the dominating model and its method defines not only discourse, but policy options, there is an urgent need now for new models of connection between economy, society and policy. they are essential for genuine, pluralist choices in policy, not to speak of democratic accountability and relevance to our contemporary problems, if we are to address the current challenges. as european parliamentarians, i encourage you to let these new models into the european discourse, give them space in the committee structure of your parliament and the institutional structure of the union. but to achieve that discourse the role of public intellectuals is also an urgent one. they are called upon, i suggest, to state publicly and unequivocally that the problems of europe are not simply technical, and certainly not solely amenable to solution by technocratic measures at the expense of democratic accountability. (applause) the suggestion that citizens and their representatives are not fiscally or economically literate enough to carry the decision-making necessary for policies that impinge on their lives – be it unemployment, housing, health, education or the environment – has the most serious implications in legitimacy terms. it is an assumption that challenges democracy itself. a disembodied version of the economic space if used as a substitute for peoples, societies or states, loses its connection with history, contemporary challenges, and it lacks the moral connection with the ethics and solidarity we now need. it would evade rather than face our present challenges. a european union – if it is to be respected as the great project it is and can be – must draw on the intellectual heritage and the intellectual imaginings, and the existing talents and the capacity of the peoples of europe. it is a fully authentic union if it is characterised by solidarity. mar fhocal scoir, to conclude:if our european union and its prospects are not of this authentic character just now, it must be made so by changes in consciousness and commitment, and through reasserting the idealism, the intellectual strength and the moral courage too that drove the founding fathers of the union. european member states are after all peoples, with history, with current needs, with possibilities that are to be shared. if we were, as an alternative, simply to regard our people as dependent variables to the opinions of rating agencies, agencies unaccountable to any demos, and indeed found to be fallible on so many occasions, then instead of being citizens we would be reduced to the status of mere consumers; pawns in a speculative chess board of fiscal moves in a game derived from assumptions that are weak; assumptions that are weak in a scholarly sense, untestable in an empirical sense and very frequently undeclared. (applause)to ask that our decisions then be normative rather than being narrowly, fiscally technocratic is, i suggest, more than an integration of our intellectual capacities. it is to defend and deepen democracy. i readily acknowledge, i want to be very clear: i believe very much in the utility in so many areas of logistical economics. however, i believe that if its methods are elevated to being a substitute for the integrated multi-disciplinary scholarship that we now need to address the varying contexts and contingencies of current challenges, such a sole reliance on a technocratic approach would be markedly insufficient. if we are to deliver the european union of peace and prosperity that the founders envisaged, and that i believe the citizens of europe yearn for beyond the understandable fear of present circumstances, a strategy that draws on the research, scholarship and world views of all of the social sciences, and ethics and philosophy is required. president, members of parliament, commissioners, leaders of groups, from the flux of diverse histories, from our current problems, from our fears and our aspirations, i hope will emerge a response that constitutes a tapestry of many colours, of different strengths in its threads; and, in its design, evocative of what memory has made endure, and the human spirit has invested with hope. whether it is made out of wondrous reason or woven with a prayer will not matter in the end. what matters is that it be work of us all, working together, in cooperation, cosmopolitan and open to the world, caring for it, in an inter-generationally responsible way, and embracing all our people as equal citizens. so let us the citizens of the european union who want to make a real union together, move out of the dark into the light and achieve something indeed worthy of friedrich schiller’s poem originally called ‘ode to freedom’. go to it! go raibh míle maith agaibh go léir. (sheas a raibh sa teach agus thug bualadh bos don chainteoir)
the next item is the continuation of the voting on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
so i want to reassure the colleague who raised the issue. i speed up a little when the vote is not controversial, but when there are problems and criticisms i slow down.
i take note of that, mr matias.
i would ask the members to clear the floor so that those who wish to make statements of vote can do so. let us proceed with the explanations of vote. i would point out that we shall be interrupting the explanations of vote at 2.55 p.m. to allow the plenary services and interpreters to prepare for the resumption of the sitting at 3.00 p.m. any statements not made today will be made tomorrow after the 11:30 vote. of course, we hope to be finished before 2:45.
i'll forward this request to the services.
mr president, in the face of the austerity measures adopted by many member states in response to the debt crisis, the european institutions have a moral duty to show a high degree of responsibility, on the one hand by seeking to strike a delicate balance between budgetary rigor and structural savings and, on the other, by making a joint effort to increase efficiency without compromising legislative excellence. for these reasons, and out of respect for the european citizens who are suffering the effects of the crisis, i believe that long-term investment should be assessed with caution and transparency and that the need for cost management, planning and monitoring of projects should be emphasized in an efficient and rigorous manner.
in writing. - i agree with the analysis in mr geier's report, which has a good critical apparatus, but i did not think i would vote for discharge for the commission and its executive agencies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which gives the european commission and a number of executive agencies discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011. the commission is the body which authorizes the implementation of the budget and manages the programmes. i have seen in this report that my country, italy, together with many other european states, still has to improve its management of european funds linked to cohesion policy. i hope that this will be done as quickly and effectively as possible, because european funds are a very precious resource which we must be able to use to the best of our ability within our territories, especially in the face of the serious economic crisis which has hit the whole of the european continent and which we are all trying to overcome with great difficulty.
in writing. - i supported the text presented by mr geier on the court of auditors' special reports in the commission's 2011 discharge procedure, as no criticisms or controversial points were raised.
in writing. - while i agree with mr vilella's report, which is not critical, i have decided not to grant the european parliament discharge in order to send a signal against its excessive expenditure.
in writing. − in view of the soundness of parliament's financial management and the statement that the final accounts give a true and fair view of parliament's financial situation, i voted in favour of granting our president discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011 in order to ensure the best possible use of taxpayers' public money.
in writing. - while i agree with the analysis in mr søndergaard's report, i did not consider that i could give discharge to the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds (edfs); indeed, according to the court of auditors' report, a worryingly high level of errors was found in the payments made and even non-quantifiable errors were made in 23% of the operations relating to budget support for 2011.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs češková with the comments which form an integral part of the decision on discharge to the european council and the council. since the council has not provided the european parliament with the internal audit documents and has not attended the scheduled meetings, thus failing to provide the necessary full documentation, i have voted against the granting of discharge.
in writing. as every year since i have been a member of this house, we are voting to refer the discharge to the council: the lack of transparency and the lack of cooperation on the part of this institution are still unacceptable. the council always presents incomplete documents and often refuses our requests for meetings and explanations. the european parliament is the only european institution democratically elected by its citizens, who therefore have the right to know in detail how this important body is run. it is also a clear symptom that we are in a sick european union today, where the main institutions are even struggling to confront each other in a climate of mutual distrust and suspicion. i am in favour of transparency at all times and at all levels, and i think it is time the council recognized that we have a firm position and that we can no longer accept that this ridiculous and shameful waste disposal is repeated every year.
in writing. - parliament must be able to play its role as the audit authority. i therefore think it is right to postpone the granting of the council's discharge because of the unanswered questions on the use of the funds. i am particularly critical of the way in which the money has been spent by the national authorities. in fact, 60% of the errors found in shared management expenditure could be detected by the national control systems, if they were working properly.
in writing. - i have supported the discharge to the court of justice, since the czarnecki report did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section v court of auditors. the analysis contained in the czarnecki report did not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - while i agree with the analysis contained in the češková report, i did not consider that the economic and social committee should be given a discharge.
in writing. - while i agree with the analysis contained in the češková report, i did not consider that the committee of the regions should be given a discharge.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge for the committee of the regions: i have not acted in this way because of a matter of miscalculation or mismanagement, but simply because of the very fact of how this institution works. the idea of representing the voice of the regions in europe is certainly a good one, but the committee of the regions is only a structure for its own sake. its budget is purely administrative, with 72% of expenditure relating to the staff of the institution and 28% allocated to buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure. i would therefore like to understand the usefulness of this body in the european decision-making process: i do not think that the issuing of non-binding opinions is enough to maintain a structure which costs us over 80 million euros a year. the same applies to the economic and social committee, which brings together representatives of the productive forces, workers and trade unions: these are good ideas, but they are not being implemented today in a meaningful way. i therefore believe that either the logic of these two institutions is radically changed or we can do without them.
in writing. - i have sought to support the granting of a discharge to the european ombudsman, as no criticisms or controversial points have emerged from mr češková's report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2011. the analysis contained in the češková report did not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr czarnecki's report, i did not consider that discharge should be given to the european external action service (eeas). comments were received on the eeas as regards the payment of staff members' allowances, the conclusion of contracts with temporary agents, the management of a contract for the provision of security services and procurement procedures. the failure to comply with the regulations has led to incorrect payments to officials and a situation of legal uncertainty for temporary staff. for these reasons i voted against the discharge.
in writing. − i share the analysis contained in this text and have voted in favour of the gerbrandy report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011: performance, financial management and control.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that acer - agency for the cooperation of energy regulators - should be given a discharge for the 2011 financial year. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that i could grant discharge to berec, the body of european regulators of electronic communications. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the translation centre for the bodies of the european union should be given a discharge. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the discharge to be given to the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2011 should be granted. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that discharge should be given for the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2011: the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandye's report, and therefore voted in favour of granting discharge to easa, the european aviation safety agency, for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that i should grant the discharge to the european banking authority for the financial year 2011. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the ecdc - european centre for disease prevention and control - should be given a discharge. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i agree with the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the european chemicals agency should be given a discharge. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. − i agree with the analysis in mr gerbrandy's report and ask for the discharge to be deferred to the european environment agency for the 2011 financial year.
in writing. - while i agree with the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the european fisheries control agency should be given a discharge. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. − while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the discharge to be given to efsa for the 2011 financial year should be granted. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. − i did not intend to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2011. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that i should grant discharge to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the eit, the european institute of innovation and technology, should be given a discharge. the proliferation of these entities does not seem to be supported by real needs. and even if, as with frontex, there is some added value in supporting cooperation through a european agency, the performance of the latter is in any case affected by the choices made at eu level which are not always shared.
in writing. − while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the discharge to the ema for the financial year 2011 should be granted. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
mr president, i voted in favour of the proposal, although i am sorry to note that the court of auditors' report contained a number of criticisms and comments. these concern the cost of some unused offices, the unwinding of the appropriations to be cleared, which are free from any legal obligation, the lack of a treasury policy and all the shortcomings concerning recruitment procedures and procurement files. i was, however, pleased to receive the observatory's positive replies, which also announced the measures to be taken on all the issues in question. in any case, i think that more attention should be paid to ensuring that the observatory's financial management is sound and that the criteria of economy, efficiency and effectiveness are met in the use of the appropriations by the observatory.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction should be given a discharge, since the proliferation of these entities does not seem to be supported by real needs. and even if, as in the case of frontex, there is some added value in supporting cooperation through a european agency, the performance of the latter is in any case affected by the choices made at eu level which are not always shared by the member states.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that emsa - the european maritime safety agency - should be given a discharge. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
mr macovei, do you wish to put the other explanations of vote in writing or do you insist?
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that discharge should be given to the european network and information security agency. the proliferation of these entities does not seem to be supported by real needs. and where, as with frontex, there is some added value in supporting cooperation through a european agency, the performance of the latter is in any case affected by the choices made at eu level which are not always shared by the member states.
in writing. − i voted for this report which reflects the administrative needs and challenges that parliament will face in 2014. i believe that in the context of continuing economic and financial difficulties this parliament should continue to exercise a high degree of budgetary responsibility and self-restraint. on the other hand, despite tight margins for manoeuvre, certain investments to strengthen the institutional role of parliament and to improve the sustainability of the budget in the long-term should be taken into consideration.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i share the idea of merging parliament's translation capacities with the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee. with any budget surpluses parliament should increase the resources to be devoted to research and assistance to parliamentarians in order to ensure a high quality of know-how for parliamentarians, especially in view of the increasing legislative powers of the european parliament. the increase of 3,2% is actually a real decrease in the budget if we take into account the extraordinary expenditure of 2014 and inflation. the 2014 is also a special year as there are additional costs necessary for the proper functioning of the parliament because it is the year of the european elections which involve transitional costs for the installation of the new parliament. in addition, there will be additional costs in 2014 related to the accession of croatia and therefore the need to hire croatian staff and interpreters and translators for the croatian language. the european parliament's budget for the year 2014 is in fact reduced by 2,89% compared to 2013.
in writing. − whereas in the context of persistent economic and financial difficulties, reflected in the austerity measures adopted by many member states in response to the debt crisis, parliament should continue to demonstrate a high degree of responsibility, control and budgetary rigour; whereas, at the same time, parliament must strike a delicate balance between budgetary rigor and structural savings on the one hand and a joint effort to increase efficiency on the other; although i do not entirely agree with the rapporteur, i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that in the current context of austerity, long-term investments such as parliament's building projects should be managed with caution and transparency.
in writing. − the revenue and expenditure forecast for the 2014 budget must take account of the particular moment of financial and economic crisis that the european union is experiencing, with greater attention to the countries that are most affected. this will require a breakdown of waste and unnecessary consumption, also in view of croatia's accession to the european union, which will involve an expenditure of some eur 13 million. in this connection, it is foreseen, for example, to reconsider the need and usefulness of the parliament's television channel (europarl tv), as well as to cut expenditure in the field of translation and interpretation and to review the policy for managing travel and the duration and number of missions. it is recommended that, in view of the very austerity climate that european citizens are experiencing, parliament's investment projects be managed with caution. i am in favour of this.
in writing. − the commission's proposal on balance of payments is an initiative to simplify financial assistance procedures between the euro area and the non-euro area. while i believe that financial assistance for balance of payments can play an important role in helping member states to improve their administrative capacity to absorb european union funds more effectively, i agree with the rapporteur that some amendments to the text should be made. in particular, i share the call for greater clarity on some of the key concepts in the proposal and the need to introduce procedures for financial assistance which are clear and fair, while not imposing the obligation of superfluous consultations where these are not justified. among the critical points in the commission's proposal i would point out the need to significantly increase the transparency and reliability of the procedure for requesting and granting financial assistance to member states in difficulty. finally, the role of the budget of the european union as the ultimate guarantor of financial assistance for member states whose currency is not the euro should be reflected in appropriate procedures to ensure accountability to the european parliament.
in writing. - with the economic and financial crisis hitting the european union, much has been done in the community's institutional bodies to shield the member states from speculative storms and to protect our single currency from repeated attempts to weaken it. the concept of solidarity which inspires our work in the european parliament must not, however, make us forget that the ten countries which have not yet joined the single currency also need adequate financial assistance mechanisms to cope with current and future emergencies. in this respect, i welcome the addition of a new financial assistance mechanism, in the form of a loan for indirect bank recapitalisation, alongside the three instruments already existing in the balance of payments framework.
in writing. the basic balance of payments proposal (bdp proposal) is a largely timely initiative to simplify financial assistance procedures between the euro area and the non-euro area. however, some amendments and additions are necessary, which are highlighted in this interim report. i agree that in order to create a real level playing field between the euro area member states and those outside the euro area, we must move in a direction which makes bank recapitalisation possible also for the member states outside the euro area.
in writing. - the intention clearly expressed today is to simplify procedures for financial assistance between the euro area and the non-euro area. in particular, the procedures for supporting these countries must always be guaranteed by absolute transparency and reliability, both in the requests for aid and in the allocation of the necessary funds.
in writing. - as regards the proposal on balance of payments, an initiative to simplify procedures for financial assistance between the euro area and the non-euro area, it was considered necessary to make some changes by means of an interlocutory report which would underline and explain them. the amendments will then be incorporated directly into the final text of the regulation, which will be approved by the council. this interim report calls for greater clarity on some of the central concepts of the proposed regulation and seeks to introduce clear and fair procedures for financial assistance. parliament and the commission have also just concluded negotiations on a single supervisory mechanism (ssm), one of the foundations of the next banking union, which is also open to non-euro area member states wishing to join the system. attention is drawn to the lack of a bank recapitalisation facility in the financial assistance toolkit offered to these states. in order to create a real level playing field between euro area and non-euro area member states, it is necessary to make bank recapitalisation possible also for non-euro area member states. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you on your patience and forbearance after this long round of votes and statements. but the subject which forces us to remain in the chamber today is so important that it requires a further supplement. i voted in favour of the annual report of the european central bank, certainly agreeing with the positive role played by the european institution also in 2011 which i remember is the year in which the famous letter was sent to the italian government, signed by the president of the ecb and the future president of the ecb, mario draghi, with which some somewhat questionable obligations were imposed. i must acknowledge the positive role played by the ecb, in that year and especially in the following ones, in overcoming the economic crisis and in supporting the debt of the most exposed countries, but at the same time i cannot help recalling that the ecb did nothing in those same years to ensure that the liquidity put into the credit system reached households and above all businesses, so as to support the real economy and industrial and production processes. there is still a lot to be done, and i think that the indications emerging from the debate in the european parliament should be listened to. as the only european body directly elected by the citizens, it once again demonstrates the sensitivity that the other institutions should also show.
we cannot accept statements on the lopez report because there has been no debate in the house. the rules of procedure do not allow statements of vote on reports which have not been discussed in the house.
mr president, i believe that the european central bank should assume the role of lender of last resort, in order to become - as is already the case in japan and america - a real bank to support and serve development, the citizens and european businesses. the amendment in favour of the sme supporting factor was very important in this report because it is necessary to give european companies, especially smes, the opportunity to access credit. we are already in a situation of great economic crisis, let us make sure that small and mediumsized enterprises are able to continue their work, because they are the backbone of the real european economy and create many, many indispensable jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 annual report of the european central bank because i believe that a good compromise has been reached between the political groups. it is important to underline the key role that the ecb has played so far in responding to the economic crisis and we must also have confidence in its possible greater and direct involvement in the plans to support economies in difficulty. this work, as has been well emphasized, must be carried out in concert with the other community institutions, not least parliament, in order to ensure democratic control. i particularly appreciate the strong call for the urgent need to complete the project of a true banking union, introducing the single supervisory mechanism in such a way as to strengthen the credibility of the euro area banking system and considering the possibility of creating a new european banking emergency fund, leading to a european deposit guarantee scheme complementing the ecb's supervisory functions. alongside this ambitious restructuring, the ecb must also pay greater attention to the real economy: it would therefore be appropriate for it to provide for the possibility of becoming the ultimate guarantor of loans granted by commercial banks to smes, in order to facilitate financing.
in writing. − the role of the european central bank has become increasingly important and has received increasing public attention over the years. the handling of the latest european economic events - the case of the cyprus bailout - has put the work of the ecb and the whole european economic and institutional system into serious question. some errors were probably made in the handling of the cyprus case, partly because the ecb lacked the broad discretion required to act decisively in the face of crucial developments at a time of crisis such as the present one. however, it is our duty to act, within the broader path towards banking and fiscal union, so that the ecb can be given greater powers and be the fundamental pillar on which the european economy restarts.
in writing. − whereas, in the wider context of economic and monetary policy, the ecb still needs to carry out a self-assessment covering all aspects of its participation in the decision-making processes in which it is involved, in particular as regards the effects of the adjustment programmes for which it has direct co-responsibility; having regard also to the concern expressed by the european parliament regarding the absence of women on the governing council of the ecb, agreeing that this, in addition to indicating a complete disregard for gender equality at the highest decision-making levels within the institution, contradicts the european commission's proposals for greater involvement of women in executive roles in the union's economic institutions, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the european central bank should do more to ensure that its low-cost lending to banks is transferred to the real economy, and the ecb itself needs to become more transparent and accountable, in line with its growing role. the mandate of the ecb must also be revised so that it can help the economy and jobs. the ecb needs to step up its direct support to smes and the real economy. in fact, i am asking the ecb to take measures such as those planned by the bank of england to ensure that the central bank's low-interest loans are channelled to the real economy.
in writing. the european council welcomed the commission's decision to launch a new round of negotiations on the euro. this institution should do more to ensure that its low-cost loans to banks actually reach the real economy, increasing its transparency and accountability of its actions in line with its growing role in the european chessboard.
in writing. − as from the 2011 financial year, the annual report of the central bank is divided into three main sections: monetary policy, the crisis, the banking union and institutional issues. the president of the european central bank, mario draghi, called 2011 an extraordinary year because it was marked by a "clear economic contraction", so growth and job creation should be the main objectives of the ecb's intervention in the coming years. the annual report also mentions the reconsideration of the ecb's role and the measures taken and still to be developed for the coming periods to deal with the crisis, with the aim of balancing support to banks on the one hand and direct support to states on the other. i am in favour of this.
in writing. - while i agree with the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the european railway agency should be given a discharge. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that i should grant discharge to the european securities and markets authority. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that i should grant discharge to the eft, the european foundation for vocational training. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. − while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the european agency for safety and health at work should be given discharge for the financial year 2011. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that discharge should be given to euratom for the financial year 2011. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that discharge should be given to eurofound for the financial year 2011. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that i should grant eurojust discharge. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. − the european commission has proposed to amend a 2006 text on the treatment of vouchers in order to overcome the difficulties, at transnational level, due to the differences in vat rules between member states. double taxation problems and difficulties in expanding activities across borders are often created. the report overcomes these problems by applying the rule that vat is due at the time of the supply of the good or service covered by the voucher. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal for a directive.
in writing. the report we voted on today, which i supported, is aimed at better regulating the voucher market: these are mainly prepaid telecommunications vouchers, which account for around 70% of the market, followed by gift vouchers and discount vouchers, and whose turnover in the union is around eur 50 billion per year. the proposal aims to harmonise eu rules on vat on vouchers, thus eliminating some of the current obstacles and problems, such as double taxation. it should also be easier to prevent certain tax avoidance phenomena, due to the current situation of legal uncertainty. the bond market has developed considerably in recent years, and has also acquired a considerable cross-border dimension: it is therefore right and proper to introduce rules which better define the sector and facilitate its greater effectiveness.
in writing. - in times of crisis, the voucher system, eco-vouchers or restaurant tickets, to name a few, is spreading like wildfire among our citizens. these 'vouchers' are often issued by large international chains, which gives the consumer a certain peace of mind. but what if a citizen wants to use a service or buy a good in a different eu country than the one where he received the voucher? what tax system, vat in this case, which still varies from one member state to another, is to be applied? we must consider this matter carefully, to avoid penalising the final recipients of these services, while respecting the rules of our internal market.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to clarify and harmonise eu rules on the vat arrangements applicable to vouchers. it will therefore have a positive effect on businesses by eliminating double taxation and uncertainty about tax compliance. the proposal will also help to close the loopholes which facilitate tax evasion by certain companies, which exploit the differences between member states. the new rules also fit into the broader strategy of the european digital agenda, in particular the objective of creating a digital single market. i voted in favour of the proposal as i agree that a coherent legal framework on vouchers is indispensable for the implementation of the 2015 rules on the change of place of supply in relation to business-to-consumer transactions.
in writing. the vote today shows clearly the will to change the vat rules to ensure uniform tax treatment of all types of vouchers in the member states. these represent a real market of over €52 billion, but companies are being penalized by facing double taxation problems and difficulties in expanding their activities across borders. the new rules are designed to remedy this situation.
in writing. - the differences in the tax treatment of vouchers between eu member states cause serious market inefficiencies. the commission has therefore proposed updating the relevant legislation to ensure uniform tax treatment of all types of vouchers. the commission proposes first of all that all vouchers be classified in the same way and that the taxable period be determined according to the nature of the voucher, thus eliminating the double taxation problem. the rules also lay down clear rules for the distribution of vouchers and technical measures concerning the right to deduct, redemption and refund procedures, the person liable for payment of the tax and other obligations of undertakings. i am in favour of this.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that discharge should be given to the european police office for the financial year 2011. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. − the europol office committed 99.1%, 75% and 95.1% of the appropriations received for staff, administrative and operational expenditure. in terms of appropriations disbursed, the office's implementation rate was 96.8% for the first heading, 33.8% for the second and 47.1% for operational expenditure. we acknowledge that the costs related to the new europol headquarters have had a significant impact on execution rates but nevertheless call on the office to implement specific measures to improve the budgeting process and the execution rate of payments as regards administrative and operational expenditure, welcoming the savings of eur 2,6 million in its 2011 budget, the reduction of the number of meetings of the administrative board and translation costs, while modernising its internal capacities in order to meet the increased demand for the office's services.
in writing. - while i agree with the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that i should grant discharge to the european union agency for fundamental rights. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs that justify their expenditure, but is also accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. − the overall budget of the fundamental rights agency for the financial year 2011 was eur 20 180 000, compared to an initial union contribution to the agency's budget for 2011 of eur 19 978 200; the annual accounts of the agency shall present fairly and in all material respects the financial position of the agency as at 31 december 2011, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. we therefore welcome the fact that the transactions underlying the agency's annual accounts for the year ended 31 december 2011 are, in all material respects, legal and regular and free from any criticism by the court of auditors. in 2011, the agency committed 100% of the appropriations received, demonstrating its prudence and spending capacity.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that discharge should be given to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders. the proliferation of these entities is often not supported by real needs, and when, as with frontex, there is some added value in cooperation through a european agency, its performance is affected by the poorly shared policy choices implemented at eu level.
in writing. − the agency's overall budget for the financial year 2011 was eur 118 200 000, compared to eur 93 200 000 in 2010, while the initial contribution from the union to the agency's budget for 2011 was eur 111 000 000, compared to eur 89 100 000 in 2010. in the light of these figures, we acknowledge that the agency's budget was subject to three amending budgets with the aim of introducing the budget heading 'eurosur' to operational expenditure, increasing the agency's budget by eur 12 700 000 under the emergency response package in relation to developments in north africa, and including an allocation of eur 31 800 000 in commitment appropriations for the emergency response package in the mediterranean. in terms of appropriations disbursed, the agency's implementation rate is 96% for staff expenditure, 74% for administrative expenditure and 58% for operational expenditure. we call on the agency to implement specific measures to improve its budgetary composition and the rate of payment execution and finally express deep concern that 33% of the agency's 2011 budget (eur 38,7 million) was carried over to 2012, noting that the level of carry-overs is excessive and contrary to the principle of annuality of the budget.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the discharge to the european gnss agency for the financial year 2011 should be granted. the proliferation of these entities is not only not supported by real needs, but is accompanied by unsatisfactory cost-benefit results.
in writing. − the agency's budget for the 2011 financial year was eur 38.7 million, paid by the union (eur 8.2 million in operating grants and eur 30.5 million in operational funds), which represents a considerable increase compared to 2010 (eur 15.9 million). the court of auditors found that audits carried out on behalf of the agency by an external audit firm on grant payments made in previous years under the sixth framework programme for research and development (fp6) often called into question the cost declarations of the beneficiaries and that at the end of 2011, the contested amounts were estimated at eur 1,7 million, representing 5% of the audited grants. that's another of the discrepancies we've detected. we regret that, according to the court of auditors' observations, the agency made grant payments under the seventh programme in 2011 amounting to 5,8 million and that, in order to verify the expenditure declared by the beneficiaries (public and private research organisations), the agency did not normally request the supporting documentation necessary to address the risk of ineligible expenditure.
in writing. − while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the discharge should be given to the artemis joint undertaking - integrated information systems for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the period of 10 years is eur 420 000 000, to be charged to the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. now, noting that the initial budget for 2011 included operating appropriations amounting to eur 46,6 million and that an amending budget was adopted reducing the operating appropriations to eur 18 600 000 against a payment appropriations rate of 51%, we express our concern that the joint undertaking's annual accounts have been subject to a qualified assessment of the legality and regularity of the related transactions by the court of auditors due to the joint undertaking's inability to assess whether the ex post audit strategy provides sufficient assurance; inviting the joint undertaking to provide the discharge authority with an action plan to address the possible lack of assurance; expects that the court of auditors, through its independent audits, will be able to provide the discharge authority with its opinion on the effectiveness of the joint undertaking's ex post audit strategy.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that clean sky - joint undertaking - aeronautics and environment should be given a discharge.
in writing. − the final amending budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 comprised commitment appropriations of eur 175 000 000 and payment appropriations of eur 159 800 000; the implementation rates for commitment and payment appropriations were 94% and 64% respectively; we therefore call for a detailed report on these shortcomings, with specific proposals for a gradual improvement in implementation rates.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that discharge should be given to eniac for the 2011 financial year.
in writing. − while i share the analysis contained in the report by mr gerbrandy, i did not consider that the fch joint undertaking should be given discharge for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - while i share the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report, i did not consider that the discharge to be given to imi for the 2011 financial year should be
in writing. − the management board of the agency adopted the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011 and the implementation plan only on 4 april 2011 due to the time required to set and agree the scientific priorities to be included in the annual implementation plan. this delayed the publication of the call for proposals and the joint undertaking was therefore forced to use the provisional twelfths budgetary regime for payments for the whole of the first quarter of the year. the implementation rate of the eur 159 000 000 of commitment appropriations available for research activities was 66% and was implemented through a global commitment for the fourth call for proposals; we can only reiterate our concern at the low rate of budget implementation and ask for a detailed report on the progress made in addressing these shortcomings.
in writing. - i agree with the analysis contained in mr gerbrandy's report and i give the discharge to iter, the european joint undertaking for the iter project and the development of fusion energy.
in writing. − the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy (the 'joint undertaking') was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. in this context, the annual accounts of the joint undertaking shall present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2011, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation. we therefore hope that the joint undertaking will continue along this path of transparency, financial rigor and commitment.
in writing. − while i share the analysis contained in the report by mr gerbrandy, i grant the discharge to the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the objective of the 2007 hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance is to ensure the effectiveness of that recovery. since the vast majority of maintenance claims are made against children, the convention is an important instrument because it is first and foremost a means of protecting them. i support mr lópez-istúriz white's recommendation that amendments to annexes ii and iii to the decision approving the convention be adopted swiftly in order to bring it into force as soon as possible. i would remind you that, in accordance with the united nations convention on the rights of the child of 20 november 1989, in all decisions relating to children the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration and that every child has the right to a standard of living adequate to enable him or her to develop physically, mentally, spiritually, morally and socially.
in writing. − the hague convention on the international settlement of support claims for children and other family members of 23 november 2007 is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides a mechanism whereby child support obligations can be enforced and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. the european parliament has already approved the convention, which was signed by the european union on 6 april 2011. however, in order for the convention to be valid also in the european union, an instrument of approval needs to be deposited. following consultations with the member states, it is now necessary to make certain amendments to annexes ii and iii to the decision approving the convention, thereby allowing the deposit of the instrument of approval. in particular, the amendments concern the situation in cyprus, latvia, luxembourg and portugal, which we hope will be changed soon.
in writing. − the hague convention on the international settlement of support claims for children and other family members of 23 november 2007 is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides a mechanism whereby child support obligations can be enforced and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. following consultations with the member states, it is now necessary to make certain amendments to annexes ii and iii to the decision approving the convention, thereby allowing the deposit of the instrument of approval. i voted in favour of the proposal, in agreement with the rapporteur, and recommended that these amendments be adopted swiftly, so that the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance can enter into force in the european union as soon as possible.
in writing. − the hague convention on the international settlement of support claims for children and other family members is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides a mechanism whereby child support obligations can also be enforced and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. only by the deposit of an appropriate instrument of approval will it be possible for this convention to enter into force rapidly throughout the european union.
in writing. − on 23 november 2007, the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance was signed, which allows maintenance to be claimed against debtors resident in third countries. parliament has already approved the convention, but for it to have full effect in the european union, an instrument of approval must be deposited and therefore any reservations on certain articles of the convention must be discussed and, once an agreement has been reached, the convention itself must be approved in its entirety. the amendments will cover the situations of cyprus, latvia, luxembourg and portugal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, i should like to speak more generally about croatia. i do not, unfortunately, share the house's enthusiasm for this continuing policy of enlargement to new member states. in the balkans in particular, serious problems remain with corruption, inadequate judicial systems, inefficient public administration, even border disputes, but above all with widespread organised crime that threatens free trade, the rule of law and the quality of life. continued enlargement also means additional financial costs for a european union in crisis, with a debt of close to €20 billion. it's not very poetic, but unfortunately it's the reality. the growing euroscepticism we are witnessing is also the result of this policy of continuous enlargement to new states, which, in my view, should be subject to referenda in the individual member states. an instrument of direct democracy, the referendum, which could bring european policy closer to the citizens.
mr president, it is clear that turkey is not, and can never be, europe in terms of its history, geography, economy, culture, respect for human rights, respect for the rights of women, religious, ethnic and linguistic minorities. in this parliament, where human rights are discussed every 15 minutes, someone will now argue that gas and energy matter more than the lack of respect for human rights. i'd be ashamed to be in these people's shoes. if someone thinks of the european union as a supermarket, a discount store where you sell, buy and trade, let us also extend the european union to the rest of the world. if, on the other hand - and this is the case with the lega and the citizens of padania whom i represent, not unfortunately the pd and the pdl at italian level - someone thinks of the european union as a homogeneous, compact, open, respectful and proud reality, turkey will not be able to be a member state of the european union today, nor tomorrow, nor even the day after tomorrow. the only sensible thing to do, in order to avoid this mockery going on for another 20 years, is to suspend once and for all the negotiations with a country which is not - i think it is clear to everyone - a part of europe!
mr president, i believe that the accession negotiations with serbia should be operative without further delay. serbia is an established democracy and an important player in guaranteeing security and stability in the region. in the recent years, this country has been unfairly treated by the eu and by the international community. in spite of this, we still see a strong commitment by the serbian government to continue along the course of eu integration and along a path towards institutional reforms, particularly the key ones related to the judiciary. serbia is developing a new strategy for judicial reform and is devising a new court system aimed at improving the efficiency and independence of the whole judiciary. i also consider serbia’s cooperation with the icty, which has resulted in all war crimes suspects being handed over to the hague tribunal for trial, to be of the utmost importance.
i think that mr lunacek has done a good job, a job that has been done at a difficult time of change in the balkans and that is progressing, albeit gradually, in a positive way. it is quite clear that the challenges facing kosovo and the european union are many, and i would like to highlight three of them. the first concerns the improvement and development of the reform process. of course, there have been good changes to the regulatory framework, including legislation and policies on return and repatriation, community rights and language use, anti-discrimination and gender equality. however, difficulties remain in the areas of human and community rights, non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and participation of women and young people in decision-making processes. there is still much to be done in the fight against corruption and organised crime in kosovo, which pose a major threat and are facilitated by the climate of excessive impunity and political interference in the judicial system. the second challenge concerns the future of the region and its integration. we have said that the signing of the association and stabilisation agreement is an important step towards the future integration of kosovo into european structures. it is hoped that such an agreement will also provide new opportunities for enhancing cooperation between neighbouring countries and regional integration of kosovo. of course, as we have noted, the negotiations between belgrade and pristina show all their difficulties. however, this path is obligatory and has no alternative, and this applies to kosovo as much as to serbia, and it is important that the european union has exerted the necessary pressure so that the dialogue produces positive outcomes as quickly as possible. the third challenge concerns the european union and its action in kosovo. i would like to ask you, commissioner füle: in the report we express concern and well-founded criticism of the action of eulex, stressing the urgency of strengthening efforts to implement the rule of law and focusing attention on the use of its executive powers in the belief, above all, that more can be done with respect to high-level corruption and organised crime. the role of eulex is important to us, but it is important if it plays its role, and i would therefore like to warn you that either there is a real change in that direction or our position will become much more critical than this action. the report by mr lunacek contains many of these concerns and indications, and we fully support it on behalf of the socialists and democrats. however, work is now needed to ensure that these guidelines are fully followed and applied.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for the very helpful debate that i have had the opportunity to listen to. i appreciate the points that have been raised and i appreciate the great gravity of the questions that are under consideration here this evening. a number of points have been made. i will try to respond to them as best i can. firstly, ms lövin and a number of others raised the question of the need for sustainable fish stocks. that is obviously a guiding principle that is of immense concern, not just to parliament but to all of the institutions of the eu. the council has committed, as you know, to setting catch levels in line with msy, and we agree with parliament on this, so i think at least in that area there is some convergence in terms of our approach. it is clear that there is a very serious issue of substance and one which will require continued positive engagement from both the council and parliament, and i think it has to be a two-way process. i agree with the point made by mr stevenson, which was a very practical point: fishermen and women deserve and need certainty in planning. i hope that we can find a solution which can help to provide that certainty. it basically boils down to that, so i very much appreciate the point that you made. the presidency has engaged on this issue both formally and informally, and i would like to thank pat the cope gallagher for acknowledging that and acknowledging the efforts that have been made during the lifetime of this presidency. we have engaged at a number of levels with all of the relevant partners and we are committed to finding a way forward. that is what minister coveney committed to at the beginning of our presidency. i do not accept that there was any deceit involved by the presidency. i reject that completely. he committed to engaging constructively and that is precisely what is happening and what has happened. this consultation this evening is taking place in the context of reaching agreement on a reformed cfp and on delivering an effective approach that will ensure that we are in a position to implement the new cfp reform through multiannual plans. that is the goal, and this debate is providing me at least with a very useful contribution to that process. i do have to say that the situation has clearly evolved further in light of the decision by parliament and the commission to refer the matter to the european court of justice, and perhaps this will give the certainty that everybody is looking for. i obviously do not accept that the council is blocking the european parliament on multiannual plans. the council quite clearly has a very different view and that view is formed on the foot of the council’s legal opinion, so we have a divergence in legal opinion. that is not for the first time, as i am learning during the course of our presidency, but that does inform the different opinions of both institutions and we have to try and find a way beyond that. we are, as i said, engaging constructively with both parliament and the commission through the trialogue process. we are focusing very much on aiming to deliver both the reformed cfp and to make progress on the multiannual plans, which of course are the cornerstone of the reformed cfp as it is planned. we are working very closely and i believe constructively with mrs rodust on that and we will continue to do so. so i would simply say that i will commit to bringing your very clearly expressed views back to the council, back to minister coveney. i know that the minister does wish to find a solution and does intend to continue engaging constructively on this matter and, as i said, it will be discussed again on 22 april at the fisheries council. so we are confident that we can agree on an arrangement that provides for the effective delivery of the reformed cfp and multiannual plans, and we look forward to doing that in partnership with the european parliament.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the european union strategy for the arctic (2013/2595 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i would like first of all to thank you for your valuable input tonight. this parliament has been an important driver behind the development of the european union’s arctic policy, and tonight we have underlined once more that the arctic is a region which affects all of us here. there have been a number of references to the indigenous peoples. let me state very clearly that the european union will look at appropriate ways of ensuring that the representatives of the arctic indigenous peoples are informed and consulted on european policies that affect them, and are given appropriate platforms to present their particular concerns to european union institutions and audiences. with this aim, the commission and the external action service will step up their efforts to continue regular dialogue with the indigenous peoples. you made clear that the arctic itself will need support in facing the tremendous environmental and economic challenges that have relevance not only for today’s but also for future generations. cooperation is key. we need to take responsibility and make a contribution, and in this context, i would like to elaborate a little bit on the issue of drilling in the arctic. the arctic states and the european union have a shared interest in ensuring that the arctic’s natural resources, both on land, at sea and on or below the seabed, are utilised in a sustainable manner that does not compromise the arctic environment, and benefits local communities. the european union has no direct coastline with the arctic ocean. a majority of today’s known resources are within the boundaries of the 200-mile zone and/or continental shelves of the arctic coastal states. the debate has also focused on cooperation with other countries. we are already intensifying the discussion with the united states and canada on arctic research cooperation. the european union has established regular dialogue on arctic issues with norway and is also exchanging views with iceland to find policy synergies. we also have a successful cooperation framework with iceland, russia and norway through the northern dimension. a partnership between the european union and greenland will open up important new opportunities to assist. the further development of our policy will also be affected by our observer-status application to the arctic council, but before i stress an important point to follow up the remark mr karas made a few moments ago, i have a few more comments to make. the 2012 communication on eu arctic policy is not a strategy – at least, not yet. this arctic policy has been developing since 2008 and is still at the development stage. debates like the one we are having now actually help to further develop and refine our thinking, so that one day we can present a strategy document on the basis of close cooperation between the high representative on one side and the commission on the other, while using the high representative’s double-hatted status to ensure the necessary coordination. in the meantime, the 2012 communication, and in particular the staff working document on an inventory of activities in the framework of developing a european union arctic policy, addressed the majority of the european parliament’s requests, in particular as regards the coherence of regional and research programming and enhancing contacts with the arctic’s indigenous peoples. the european commission and its agencies have also participated actively in the arctic council working group. in this context, let me also briefly refer to the issue of financing. funding opportunities in this area are being investigated at the moment in the light of the multiannual financial framework. the horizon 2020 regional and cross-border programmes are likely to be key areas within the arctic focus. now, coming back to our observer-status application, i am grateful for the words of mr karas. we trust that the arctic council members will come to a fair decision, recognising in particular the significant contribution the european union can bring to this very important region.
the debate is closed.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that what we are discussing is one of the few instruments available for direct contact between citizens and the european institutions, and not only in the year of the european citizen, but also at a time when european credibility in our society is, unfortunately, at its lowest level ever - and this is not a fact from eurostat, but stems from the daily experience of each of us when we are dealing with citizens. the european citizens' initiative, if used well, is a weapon that can be quite extraordinary. personally, and together with other colleagues, i am one of the promoters of one of the first initiatives, the one concerning the request for a directive on the pluralism of information. the european parliament had tried, and we had reached a historic vote which i will always remember: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how nice it would be to be able to tell the european citizens that through the european citizens' initiative - or the collection of signatures - a problem that has not been solved within the institution can finally find a solution to the question of media freedom and pluralism, which should be at the heart of the identity of our own european union. what are we doing to achieve this european citizens' initiative? the debate today is very fruitful because it allows us to make a cut-off one year after its introduction, and some revision is probably urgent. much has already been said. it is clear that when we have open source software, like the one that is available that often poses problems of usability, it is not easy to handle, we have to do something to intervene. i would also point out, in the experience of the initiators of the first initiatives, that there is a waste of money and additional costs of time which could be avoided. not to mention the sometimes particularly complicated technical requirements for online certification and the legal and technical issues that citizens themselves may encounter when certifying their signature. these and other comments have already been communicated to the commission. but what has been done by all of us, including parliament, to spread this good news to the people? the instrument is at your disposal. let us not allow bureaucratic and technical problems and our limitations in terms of advertising to undermine one of the best introductions to the treaty of lisbon, which can become a formidable political weapon!
madam president, i am new here, and therefore i thank you twice for giving me the opportunity to speak for the first time. i will now switch to my other mother tongue, italian. signora presidente, l'iniziativa dei cittadini europei, particolarmente importante in questo momento di sfiducia nei confronti dell'europa, sembra avere qualche problema di comunicazione e burocratico, com'è già stato rilevato dalla signora commissario e da altri colleghi. faccio un esempio pratico su tutti, che riguarda proprio il mio paese, l'italia: l'iniziativa sull'acqua pubblica ha raccolto, dopo nove mesi, poco più di 25.000 firme sulle 54.000 necessarie per l'italia, mentre sullo stesso soggetto, a livello di referendum nazionale, erano state raccolte nel 2011, quindi poco fa, in pochi mesi più di un milione di firme. questa discrepanza di successo fra l'iniziativa di un singolo stato e quella europea non può essere spiegata se non con le esistenti difficoltà di comunicazione e di ordine burocratico. so che è stata presentata un'iniziativa per semplificare questo diritto d'iniziativa. sembra un gioco di parole, ma è una realtà che mi fa venire in mente questa frase "un cammello è l'esatta descrizione di un cavallo fatta da un burocrate". spero proprio che la commissione possa porre un veloce rimedio a quanto sta accadendo.
madam president, madam commissioner, there is no doubt that a europe based on the right of european citizenship needed and needed an instrument such as the one that has been created, namely the right of legislative initiative. as various colleagues have said, and as mrs malmström has said before, there is no doubt that the process so far has been somewhat difficult, and sometimes even yielding, in the sense that some member states have not always contributed responsibly to an information campaign. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this initiative is an asset, especially for the commission, which can enhance its activities through the proactive and concrete contribution of the citizens themselves. at the same time, we must encourage the member states to make the council take up this initiative with great vigour, something which we have not yet done. as mentioned, there have been successful initiatives, such as the right to water. i am sure that it is precisely fundamental rights and individual freedoms that could be further enhanced through a responsible competition of citizens who can propose valid legislative initiatives on social, welfare, cultural or promotion policies in the territories in which they live. the need for a revision of the regulation and the creation of a european citizens' agenda, containing the priorities that citizens would like to see implemented, which the institutions have not always implemented, is therefore essential. the need to reduce bureaucratic constraints and to increase the flexibility of collecting signatures online has already been the subject of numerous interventions. the citizens cannot be fooled, nor can they be denied the essential requirements recognized by this regulation, which, it must be said, must be amended immediately to make it simpler, easier and more streamlined, and at the same time to give concrete possibilities of access to the information needed to make this instrument a concrete added value. if we want a europe in which citizens, and young people in particular - let us remember that there is often a gap between the european institutions and young people - can finally have their say, it is of the utmost importance to be able to inform these young people of the possibility of helping to shape the legislative framework of reference which regulates the structure of their activities. i would like to conclude by inviting mrs malmström, who has always shown great sensitivity and availability. i am convinced that the commission must take the initiative needed, on the one hand, to ensure that the member states are encouraged to do so and, on the other, to simplify in a real and practical way a regulation which needs to be itself the practical exercise of a fundamental institution: the democratic participation of citizens in the european institutions!
madam president, commissioner, when the decision was taken in lisbon to introduce the citizens' initiative, it was a very far-sighted move. it is a tool with enormous potential, bringing citizens closer to the institutions, and she knows very well how much we need it at a time like this, when economic difficulties and their social consequences are causing suffering for millions of people, who look with suspicion and hostility at the institutions, which are not always able to meet their needs. however, given the potential of this instrument, we cannot hide its limitations, and you have done so very correctly. for that reason, i think there are at least three things that we need to do right now: - the revision of the instrument in 2015 is too far removed from the concrete needs we have today, it should be anticipated; - it is also clear that the instrument is not well known, and it is paradoxical that a large instrument of direct democracy cannot be used to its full extent because the citizens are unaware of its existence, let alone of its functioning, which is in fact very baroque; - finally, the initiatives which have been promoted must also become legislative initiatives, because if the citizens who participate in a situation which is not yet ideal from the point of view of relations and knowledge indicate to the european institutions the issues and problems, they will see that these are not then solved and will have a hostile attitude towards the instrument. that is why i think it is very important to get some of these initiatives into legislation as quickly as possible.
in writing. mr president, the committee on petitions was directly involved in the legislative process leading to the adoption of the regulation on the citizens' initiative. this instrument with its enormous potential came into force exactly one year ago, with the enthusiasm and hope of many of us. for the first time, citizens can directly intervene in the activities of the european institutions. unfortunately, during the year many criticisms have emerged and the citizens have encountered difficulties, mainly linked to the technicalities and excessive bureaucracy that the committee on petitions had tried to reduce to a minimum and which inevitably slow down the time taken to collect signatures ... already extremely short times. moreover, the complicated signature verification mechanisms sought by the european council also risk placing an additional burden on the citizen. at present, of the 14 open initiatives, only one has reached the required number of 1 million signatures. all the others are in serious danger of failing. this is disappointing to those who believed in the goodness of the instrument. the work to improve it must begin immediately and in this the european parliament and, in particular, the committee on petitions, must play the role of listening to and channelling the concerns of the citizens.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, it is unfortunate that vice-president rehn cannot be here today owing to his prior commitments in the context of the g20 and imf meetings taking place in washington. he was here earlier this week, as you know, but he is now on his way to washington. before entering into the details of the questions, i should underline that they have – as the honourable member said – been addressed in this exchange of letters between you and the vice-president at the beginning of this year. so i will restate what was said in that letter of 4 february, which i am sure all members of the econ committee have been given a chance to see. as emphasised in that exchange, the commission regrets parliament’s view that the commission failed to consult the european parliament on completion of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure scoreboard. that is not our intention, and is not our understanding of the process either. as a matter of fact, in choosing the eleventh indicator of the mip scoreboard, the commission acted in accordance with the relevant regulation and in pursuit of a political agreement with the council and parliament back in late 2011 for completion of a scoreboard with an eleventh indicator. it is useful to remember that according to that regulation – the mip regulation – it is the task of the commission to adjust technically the scoreboard definitions. i quote: ‘the commission shall assess on a regular basis the appropriateness of the scoreboard, including the composition of indicators, the thresholds set and the methodology used, and it shall adjust or modify them where necessary.’ the spirit of close cooperation with the council and parliament mentioned in recital 12, which was cited in your question, is a paramount principle for the commission. with that in mind, a political agreement with the two co-legislators regarding the financial sector was reached in 2011, through the parliament resolution of december 2011 and the ecofin council conclusions of november 2011. i would stress this aspect: the political choices were made in 2011 together with parliament. in 2012, there was a technical implementation of the political choice of adding a financial sector indicator to the scoreboard. responding specifically to the question: yes, the commission understands that a consultation took place in 2011 and that parliament’s resolution back then was the political response to the issues in question. i would also stress that the commission treated parliament and the council on the same footing and informed them at the same time. in carrying out this task, the commission benefited from the views provided by the economic policy committee. these latter should be regarded as being within the scope of the epc’s mandate to ‘provide advice to the commission’. in conclusion, on behalf of the commission, i would like to urge the honourable members to take a proportionate approach to this matter. while member states continue to experience macroeconomic imbalances to a different degree, a scoreboard that is efficiently designed and implemented is in the eu’s wider interests. as we all know, no choice is free from imperfections; no single indicator, taken in isolation, can fully measure the intricacies of the financial sector and its implications for the real economy. because of that, the current scoreboard is never interpreted mechanically or in isolation, it comprises a second layer of indicators and it does not exclude additional ones from consideration in in-depth reviews, which – as you may know – we published on 10 april. i hope that this clarifies the situation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we, the european parliament, and we, the european people's party, said yes to macroeconomic surveillance in 2011. the instrument has now been implemented and has become a very central instrument of the european union's common economic policy. i was already able to help my group draft the regulation in 2011. and even then the central question was: what role does the european parliament play in the development of the scoreboard? at that time - and i am particularly sorry that commissioner rehn is not here - there were clear commitments from commissioner rehn. it is only on the basis of these commitments that parliament has agreed to today's wording of the regulation. we were in favour of flexible management, and that was a vote of confidence in the commission. now we see that on 19 november you inform parliament that there is another indicator, and that you will present calculations on that indicator a week later. that means that you have been counting on this new indicator for months without informing parliament. that's a foul! what's this about? i am entirely in favour of the rapporteur, mrs bowles, because it is not about the indicator per se. we do not want a parliamentary debate on the indicator as such, or on new indicators. that is why my group will not accept most of the amendments which have been tabled here today. so what's it about? is this about us being here, to put it bluntly, playing the offended liverwurst? that's not the point either. it's about acceptance! and the acceptance of our european union will be reflected, in a very central way, in the acceptance of the common economic policy. if we do not succeed in getting people on our side on this very central issue, we shall not get anywhere. and there will be no acceptance without democratic safeguards. that's what the central approach is all about! i say this as someone who comes from a country like italy, where the question of acceptance is particularly relevant at this moment. people need to feel that the decisions that are made here are backed by parliamentary backing and that there is a parliamentary debate behind them. what do you want from us now? are you asking us members of parliament to go out and defend this procedure in the member states? we can't do that. the commission has once again supported this image of a europe run by bureaucracy. and that's a shame, really. that's what this is about! we need a new approach in this moment of consolidation and in a difficult moment. we certainly cannot do that with this procedure. we, the european people's party and parliament as a whole, want macroeconomic surveillance to be successful. you and the commission have certainly not contributed to this by this procedure. we must therefore make four demands on the part of parliament: firstly, the role of parliament must be safeguarded. the commission should understand this. the treaty of lisbon exists. the commission should also understand this. secondly, the european parliament and the council must be treated equally and with equal value! that's not what happened in this question. thirdly, the role of the european systemic risk board in the regulation must be maintained! this procedure also failed to achieve this. and fourthly, any further adjustment that may be necessary - because, commissioner, what you have said about the flexibility of the scoreboard and the indicators is quite right - must be communicated to parliament in good time so that a sensible and - as the chairman, mrs bowles, has indicated - efficient debate can take place in this house.
madam president, the fact that parliament has not been consulted on financial stability indicators is not only serious in itself, but is a more general sign of the commission's misconception of its role and its relationship with parliament in the light of the new economic governance functions it has been given since the crisis. this is the fundamental political point, and this incident is a sign of that. behind this episode, this methodological question, there is a deeper, more political one. we are not satisfied with the way the commission is using the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. this procedure should indicate imbalances in their reciprocity and interdependence: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the fundamental problem which, without proper relationship with parliament, will be difficult to correct, with profound damage to the quality of our economic governance.
mr president, the visa facilitation agreement between the european union and ukraine has been in force since 1 january 2008 and has proved to be extremely valuable over the years. the current amendment seeks to correct distortions and differences in the interpretation of the text by making substantial improvements, including a faster bureaucratic process. this visa facilitation agreement not only has the merit of strengthening people-to-people contacts and citizens' movements in europe, but can actually contribute to the development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in ukraine.
in writing. - the european union's policy of openness towards ukraine should, in my view, be continued. we cannot and do not want to force any state to adopt specific legislation, but it is worthwhile to press for the states bordering the eu to adhere to principles in which we firmly believe. the granting of this facility is a way of rewarding the path that ukraine is taking. not fully opening our borders leaves us room to encourage the ukrainian authorities to do more and better on the road ahead.
in writing. − the eu-ukraine visa facilitation agreement has been amended to simplify the process of obtaining documents for a wide range of individuals, to remove the burden of urgency for those living far from the consulate, to clarify outsourcing costs and to exempt biometric passport holders from visa requirements. i believe, however, that citizens should be able to travel without a visa both when travelling from the eu to ukraine and vice versa. i therefore vote against this proposal to amend this agreement.
in writing. - mr president, today the motion for a resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and ukraine amending the agreement between the european community and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas was voted during the plenary session. this agreement has been in force since 1 january 2008 and has proved to be extremely successful. however, an assessment of the functioning of the agreement has shown that some additional amendments would be necessary to correct any distortions or differences in the interpretation of the text. in particular, the provisions on the validity of the visa and the conditions for documents relating to the purpose of the journey have been summarised and clarified for a wider category of applicants. in addition, the system for introducing charges on grounds of urgency has been reviewed to improve the provisions. these charges are now abolished for users who submit an application at the last moment and live at a considerable distance from the consulate, and the provisions on outsourcing costs have been clarified. the amendments to this agreement facilitate the travel of representatives of civil society, ngos, journalists and young people.
in writing. the republic of moldova is a country over which the european union has, for gravitational reasons, enormous economic influence. the need to improve trade and tourism relations is therefore a sacrosanct one. however, given the political problems that moldova itself is facing on its borders, we are forced to be cautious. i think that the rapporteur, perhaps also because of the sensitivity which he derives from his familiarity with moldovan issues, has done a very good job and i am glad to have supported him by voting in favour.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs vaidere because, in a general context of crisis and recession, it is important to assess the consequences in countries which have always been and are still living in disadvantaged situations such as the developing countries. many countries depend mainly on exports of their products and the global crisis has led to a reduction in demand and foreign investment, with repercussions on the availability of resources to guarantee social and economic rights. this directly affects the right to food, education, work, health care, adequate housing and essential services: the right to dignity. children are the most vulnerable to the crisis, partly as a result of the poverty of those who care for them; child labor numbers are sky-high: the right to well-being is denied, as is the right to childhood. and that is unacceptable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to bear in mind that the financial and economic crisis has become intertwined with numerous other crises, such as the food, environmental and social crises. in particular this crisis is having a disproportionate effect on the rights of specific groups of people, particularly the poorest and marginalised. in addition, as a result of the brutal repression of social protests in many countries around the world, also the civil and political rights are at risk. for these reasons this report reaffirms that while the global economic crisis poses a severe threat to the fulfilment of economic, social and cultural rights, there is no justification for states, whatever their level of income, to compromise on their obligation to respect fundamental human rights. governments should have, at all times, an obligation to ensure ‘minimum essential levels’ of the social and economic rights necessary for living in dignity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which assesses the impact of the financial and economic crisis on human rights in third countries and developing countries, which has unfortunately resulted in a contraction in demand for their exports, high levels of indebtedness, the risk of a lower inflow of foreign direct investment and a reduction in official development assistance, also affecting human rights, as fewer resources are available to guarantee social and economic rights and more people end up in poverty. it is important to urge governments to at least follow through on their obligation to ensure 'essential minimum levels' of social and economic rights necessary for citizens to live in dignity, especially those linked to the most vulnerable sections of the population. finally, it is important to encourage foreign and domestic investors to stimulate strong corporate social responsibility policies in all countries, with an emphasis on sustainable development and good governance and with a clear focus on human rights, decent work, labour standards, freedom of association, collective bargaining and other social aspects.
in writing. - mr president, the report voted today can only remind us once again that we must on the one hand commit the union to an effective response to the economic crisis, which has long since ceased to be global but is increasingly confined to the euro area, and on the other hand i would urge us to work so that we can have the necessary instruments to deal with a phenomenon as difficult as the economic crisis. first of all, i would remind you that the budget of the federal government in the united states is 24% of the budget of the individual states, whereas in europe it is less than 1%. secondly, i would like to stress that freedom of expression must be safeguarded, particularly in the light of the economic crisis and the choices that have been made in the wake of it. but this requires a responsible effort on the part of everyone, particularly those involved in the communications sector. demagoguery and instrumental behaviour must leave room for free, plural, objective information which is of inestimable value for public debate.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis that has hit europe and the other continents has had a heavy impact on national budgets and the community budget. in fact, in recent months we have witnessed a heated debate on the future of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, arising from the need to find a difficult compromise between the need for rigour and consolidation on the one hand, and the revival of investment for growth on the other. in this difficult context it is clear that the expenditure on defence of the most vulnerable can also be cut or reduced. but as the european parliament we have repeatedly shown our firmness and intransigence in opposing indiscriminate cuts to the very items of expenditure devoted to the protection and protection of human rights, and today's vote is proof of that.
in writing. - mr president, today's plenary session voted on the motion for a resolution by parliament on the impact of the financial and economic crisis on third countries, with particular attention to developing and least developed countries. parliament considered that the crisis affected not only economic and social rights but also political rights, since in some cases governments restricted freedom of expression or association as discontent and economic difficulties increased, often resulting in popular protests. parliament was determined to defend and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms and condemned the fact that these rights had been under attack in many countries since the crisis began. parliament noted that the global economic crisis was jeopardising the spending of eu member states on official development assistance (oda) and that the costs of the global economic crisis were being borne disproportionately by poor countries, even though the crisis had originated in the richer countries. it therefore urges the eu and its member states to maintain and implement their bilateral and multilateral commitments on saa and the objectives identified in the un millennium declaration.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis which has affected the countries of the european union has also affected and is affecting third countries, and this resolution seeks to assess the impact of this economic situation on human rights, especially in the latter areas and in underdeveloped or developing countries. the shrinking spending power has also had implications for political rights and freedom of expression, considering the many popular protests such as those that took place in north africa and the middle east in 2011. it is worth noting that children are often the most affected by the effects of poverty, and they are sometimes forced to miss school, especially in the poorest countries. for these reasons, measures should be taken to prevent the human rights impact of the crisis, for example by including human rights clauses in any trade agreement, which would allow the agreement to be terminated if the parties breached the clauses. it is also desirable that the commission should provide for an impact assessment of legislative and non-legislative proposals and trade agreements. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. − i voted for this report because, considering that demographic challenges play an increasingly important role in the development of the eu, i support the necessity to harmonise the population data of member states. to make this possible, we call for the creation of a common framework for the production of european statistics on demography. this framework will be used to regulate the collection and transmission of statistics on population and life events.
in writing. - in statistical matters, methodology is essential to obtain accurate and above all sensible descriptions. to read statistics without method is like, in the famous aphorism attributed to bukowski, to believe that a man with his head in a hot oven and his feet in ice is doing just fine. similarly, when dealing with demographic data in a political reality where residence is a national competence and communication between member states is not perfect, using the concept of 'habitual residence' could affect the quality of the data. that is why i voted to refer this matter back to the commission, in the hope that further discussion will lead to more effective solutions.
in writing. − this proposal aims to develop a common reference framework for producing demographic statistics on the eu in relation to population and marital status events. but this requires timely and accurate data sets, and the result would be to increase the eu's control over member states' budgets, as well as to deprive the european parliament of its political sovereignty. i do not consider the work of eurostat to be neutral, and i vote against the proposal.
in writing. − the correct and comprehensible transmission of statistics on the demographic factors of the member states is a delicate point in the process of implementing european activity. the implementation of european policies requires knowledge of the composition of the population and its stratification by socio-demographic factors and components. as the european parliament we have repeatedly called for greater harmonisation in the application of demographic statistics and the report adopted today underlines the importance of this.
in writing. − the proposal under consideration aims to achieve a single framework for the collection and transmission of population data, so that the data analysed and synthesised can actually be compared within the countries of the union. to this end, it is also called for the local, regional and national databases on demographic trends to be made comparable, so that the data collected can be evaluated at european level and the exchange of best practice between states, regions and municipalities can be stimulated. such data could also be useful for the purpose of understanding the demographic challenges and the operational choices to be made in this regard. i therefore express a favourable opinion.
in writing. - mr president, i voted against some of the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, aimed at introducing a port tax on ship recycling. in my view, there is a danger that the competitiveness of european ports and port work will be seriously compromised without achieving the objective of improving recycling conditions globally, and in particular, as we know, in south asian countries such as india, pakistan and bangladesh. the financing mechanism for 'environmentally friendly' ship recycling proposed by the rapporteur would impose on ports the collection of a fee for something for which they are not responsible (dismantling and recycling of ships), with the implication of legal issues and the creation of enormous administrative burdens. the tax would penalise in particular italian shipowners who have made significant investments in new vessels in compliance with the requirements of the hong kong convention. at such a difficult historical moment for the european industry, with the shipping industry being no exception, these additional costs would affect the market to the detriment of short-haul shipping, resulting in increased traffic congestion and increased external costs: the european parliament has always wanted to reduce this for the welfare of the citizens.
in writing. - mr president, the question of the recycling of discarded ships, which are now being 'demolition' in the poorest countries of the asian continent, must be tackled with a common approach and action. we are all familiar with the images of the dismantling of these vessels, which are real graveyards. europe has at its disposal the guidelines set out in the hong kong international convention which, without prejudice to any country, provides a constructive approach to the subject. the main european institutions and associations in the maritime and port sector have made it clear that a tax on goods handled in eu countries alone would jeopardise the competitiveness of european ports vis-à-vis international competitors. the economic needs must therefore be matched by the other issues on the table. in a time of deep crisis, which inevitably affects the scale of the european union, it is therefore important to find a solution that will allow us to defend the interests of our ports.
in writing. - mr president, it is certainly right to support ship recycling that is as safe as possible and compatible with respect for the environment, and we must combat the increasingly widespread phenomenon of shipwrecks, which is mainly occurring in south asia, with india and bangladesh at the forefront. the european commission should therefore be asked to submit a legislative proposal by the end of 2015 on an incentive-based system to facilitate the proper and safe recycling of ships. fortunately, an amendment tabled by parliament's committee on the environment, aimed at establishing a recycling fund, was defeated by a handful of votes: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, this would certainly have caused an increase in the cost of sea freight transport, probably adding to the already heavily congested land transport. the european union would do well to listen to the voice of its operators in this sector and to protect them, because it is not acceptable that measures which are harmful to us and beneficial to others should even be proposed.
in writing. − since 1998, the export of all hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries has been prohibited, as enshrined in the 'ban amendment' which controls the transboundary movements of hazardous waste and its disposal; as a result, any ship carrying hazardous waste can only be disposed of in oecd countries, but this provision is often circumvented, and there are increasingly frequent cases of shipwrecks off the coast of south asia, with obvious consequences for the health of the coast but also for workers. in order to improve the situation, a specific convention has been developed by the international maritime organisation, and the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships was adopted in 2009, but it is not expected that the convention will enter into force before 2020. the commission's proposal is to establish a european list of recycling facilities worldwide to verify their standards, so that ships flying the flag of an eu country would be allowed to be scrapped at the facilities on the list. i am in favour of this.
in writing. - i have been following croatia's accession to the european union for some time, but despite the efforts made in the judicial, institutional and social fields, there are still thorny historical issues pending. i remember that although it has been commemorated for a few years, february 10 is celebrated as the "day of remembrance" in order not to forget a dramatic period of our history that has been suppressed for too long and the thousands of italians forced to flee and those shot and thrown into the karst ravines because they were considered "enemies of the people" by the partisan militias of marshal tito. i believe that in memory of the martyrs of the phoebies and the refugees from istria, dalmatia and julian, it is necessary to clarify this dark period between 1945 and 1948. there are pages of history which cannot be turned with indifference and pretended that what has happened is now only a part of the past. there are people who are still waiting for their rights as exiles to be recognized and for confiscated property to be recognized.
in writing. − i voted for this report to strongly support the green light given by the commission to the accession of croatia in the eu next july. croatia’s accession process shows the credibility of the eu’s enlargement policy and its transformative effects on applicant states. i believe that croatian membership will serve as a powerful reminder to other aspirant countries that the implementation of commitments yields tangible and durable benefits to their citizens. it is also important to stress that accession should not be construed as the end of a process, but rather as a step along the path towards economic, administrative and judicial modernization, and as an opportunity whose benefits can only be fully realized through continuous policy action.
in writing. − the process of accession to the european union is long and complex and, as the resolution rightly points out, is not an end in itself but is itself part of a wider process of approximation to eu values and regulatory standards. the copenhagen criteria cannot therefore be interpreted in a restrictive way, waiting for the applicant country to be at the same economic level as the rest of europe. in this respect, croatia has shown commitment and the results are being seen. i therefore congratulate our croatian neighbours and look forward to welcoming the 12 colleagues who will be joining us from 1 july.
in writing. − as of 1 july 2013, croatia will become the 28th member state of the european union. the report adopted today by the european parliament recognises the progress made by croatia in recent years, both in economic and financial terms and in the recognition of social and political rights. the only two ratification procedures still to be completed are those by denmark and germany, which, once ratified, will allow the new member state to join. this result is also a source of encouragement for the other candidate countries, which are on the path of 'approaching' that minimum common denominator of values and traditions shared by the eu member states.
in writing. - mr president, i voted against this report on the progress of croatia, which is now set to become the 28th european partner. a country aspiring to join the eu should first be aware of its history, which is made up of lights and shadows, positive and negative aspects, as it is normal for it to be. it is precisely in this context that i believe there is a lack of full recognition on the croatian side of the events connected with the deportation and massacre of italians in istria and dalmatia during and after the end of the second world war: the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. for too long, there has been a guilty silence about these historical events, which have only been rediscovered in recent years. i would also like to recall that in the not so distant year of 2007 there was still the croatian head of state who was sharply criticising what he said was historical revisionism and a fascist philosophy, criticising napolitano's words commemorating the martyrs of the phobias. there are victims still waiting to get justice: i hope that croatia knows and above all wants to face up to its past, which cannot be hidden or forgotten.
in writing. − on 1 july 2013, the european union will be joined by another member state, croatia, which already has some observers in parliament and is subject to constant prior checks on its accession to the union. the opportunity is ripe to underline the credibility of the european union's enlargement processes, which are becoming more and more firm. croatia is in the process of completing all the reforms required and planned for accession and is therefore urged to respect and fulfil all its commitments under the accession negotiations in order to be fully prepared as a new member state as this is in the interest of croatia and the european union. the eu will continue to support the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp). it is also appropriate to implement measures to stimulate economic growth and maintain stability in the banking sector. however, the constructive contribution of croatian observers to the european parliament is acknowledged, and i therefore express my support.
in writing. − i voted for his resolution because i believe that a renewed mutual engagement between turkey and the eu is needed. i am totally in favour of turkey accession to the eu and for this reason i praise the commission's positive agenda, which proves how turkey and the eu could advance their dialogue and go to the membership direction. we shouldn't forget that there is a strong economic interdependence between the european union and turkey as the eu is turkey’s largest trading partner and turkey is the eu’s sixth-largest trading partner. most of all, we must consider turkey’s strategic role, politically and geographically, for the eu’s foreign and neighbourhood policies. that's why with this text we call on turkey and the eu to cooperate more closely on strengthening the forces of peace and democracy in the southern neighbourhood.
in writing. - turkey is a great country, a strategic ally in nato, a cultural bridge to the hottest part of the arab world and to the countries of the middle east and central asia. the eu needs to show off its high-level diplomatic skills with this country because of the delicate nature of the negotiations that have been going on for decades and so as not to risk breaking the rope by pulling it. in particular, it is good to encourage turkey to comply with the copenhagen criteria, especially as regards the judicial system and the role of the army, but on the other hand it makes perfect sense to respect turkey's cultural peculiarities and to use the role that this state can play in the middle east chessboard to cool down the most dangerous sides.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe in the importance of a constructive dialogue between the eu and turkey, capable of creating a common basis of values, democracy and respect for human rights. unfortunately, there are still serious problems, such as the refusal to implement asylum procedures for refugees, thus violating human rights, or, even more importantly, problems related to women's rights and freedom of expression. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. it is important to note the work of the eu delegation monitoring the situation of journalists and the reforms that turkey is undertaking in the area of freedom of expression and media; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment through the development of a european strategy on the protection of the environment.
in writing. - mr president, i voted against this resolution on turkey's progress towards eventual accession to the european union, which i hope will never happen. there are too many historical, social and cultural differences that separate us from our asian neighbour: i could give you a thousand examples, but i'll just stick to freedom of the press. turkey now holds the world's first record for jailed journalists, many of whom are still awaiting trial: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. if we talk about human rights and the status of women, the situation is much worse: in many parts of the country, women are considered little more than an object, at the full disposal of men. the recent incidents of gang rape against young girls have also caused shock and outrage: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i hope that turkey can solve these internal problems, but i reiterate my 'no' to its membership of the european union, neither now nor in the future!
in writing. − accession negotiations with turkey were opened on 3 october 2005 following the approval of the negotiating framework by the council. the opening of these negotiations is the starting point of a long-term process without time limits, based on strict conditionality and a commitment to reforms, for which the european union must act as a reference point. turkey is currently the sixth largest trading partner of the european union and has the potential to play a key role in diversifying energy resources and transit routes for oil, gas and electricity from countries neighbouring the european union; in the context of the creation of a sustainable low-carbon economy, however, there is potential for both turkey and the european union to benefit from turkey's abundant renewable energy resources. the resolution calls on the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the country is able to meet its obligations under international law. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i think that the opening of negotiations with montenegro represents a positive signal for montenegro's citizens and for the other countries in the region. in this text we make clear that significant progress has been achieved by montenegro on the path to eu membership but also that some shortcomings in the accession process continue to persist and need to be addressed, especially the fight against organised crime and corruption at high level. as well, the country should make progress in respecting and promoting the social rights, the activity of the trade unions and the women rights, both at social and at political level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i have welcomed the progress made by montenegro and, in particular, the peaceful, free and fair holding of early parliamentary elections in accordance with international standards, which i consider to be an important sign of democracy. i think it is important to open negotiations with montenegro because this could be a positive signal for other countries in the region. i hope that the authorities in podgorica will continue the reform process and adopt constitutional provisions aimed at strengthening the independence, integrity and legal accountability of the country's judicial system, without which a full democracy cannot be achieved. finally, it is equally important to take measures to create a professional, efficient, merit-based and impartial public administration, while strengthening the links between policy-makers and civil society.
in writing. − i strongly support this resolution as i believe that the accession negotiation with serbia should be opened without further delay. serbia is an important player in guaranteeing security and stability in the region and serbian accession to the eu is of crucial importance for the quality of the economic and social development in the country. for these reasons with this text we welcome the commitment of the new government to a continued eu integration course and to go on with the reforms, particularly the key ones related to the judiciary. serbia is developing a new strategy for judicial reform, and is making efforts in order to devise a new court system to improve the efficiency and independence of the whole judicial system. also, i consider of utmost importance serbia’s cooperation with the icty, which has resulted in all war crimes suspects being handed over to the hague tribunal for trial.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. serbia still has a long way to go to align itself with the european union, which places the rule of law at the heart of its enlargement policy. i think, however, that the efforts made are appreciated. i am referring in particular to the many measures aimed at normalising relations with kosovo and those aimed at meeting the political conditions and criteria of the stabilisation and association process to a sufficient extent. i also appreciated the new government's commitment to the reforms it has implemented. further efforts are needed to adopt measures, in particular those essential to the judicial system, the fight against corruption, freedom of the media, the protection of all minorities, sustainable management of natural resources, structural economic reform and the improvement of the economic environment. i believe that the opening of accession negotiations with serbia will be possible only if the main priorities are satisfactorily achieved and if the reform processes, particularly as regards the rule of law, continue.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on this resolution because although the s&d group was able to pass some amendment on the deficit of efficiency of eulex, i totally disagree with the extension of the eulex mandate and with the request to ensure that eulex expands its staff, implicitly asking for a further funding. the european court of auditors report stated that since now eulex has been overall ineffective. from 2007 to 2011 the eu provided 680 million euros to support the rule of law in kosovo, making the country the biggest per-capita recipient of eu aid in the world. despite that, the persistent weakness of the rule of law is delaying the building of democracy, undermining any long-term development. so far little or no detailed investigation has been carried out into organised crime and its connections with the representatives of political institutions. consequently a large number of crimes may well be continuing to go unpunished. for these reasons i believe that this resolution should have been much more critical in assessing the progress in the country and even more critical when it comes to eulex.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, although i am aware of the great efforts that kosovo still has to make to move closer to european standards of law and democracy. relations between the european union and kosovo have so far seen important developments in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and in the investigation and prosecution of war crimes. i believe that the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement can be an important step in the future towards kosovo's future integration into european structures and, ultimately, towards accession to the union. such an agreement will provide new opportunities to strengthen cooperation between neighbouring countries and thus the regional integration of kosovo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the regulation on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is a fundamental policy instrument for the economic governance of the area to correct the macroeconomic imbalances of the member states. like the rapporteur, i believe that the commission should inform parliament first of the updating of the assessment framework for the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances in order to act in a spirit of cooperation in accordance with the agreements. parliament and the council are co-legislators and each one's role should be respected, not just to comply with the rules but to compensate for the democratic deficit which citizens complain about and which is one of the main causes of the lack of perception of the added value of europe.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution, which rightly emphasizes that the european parliament must be more involved in the decision-making process in this area. the parliament received the communication only a few days before the commission published the evaluation framework in november 2012 and this is frankly not acceptable. i also wonder why the european commission consulted the working party responsible for the council and did not also refer to parliament, in respect of our role as co-legislators. i therefore hope that the commission will change its working method and therefore inform parliament and the council well in advance if it intends to update the evaluation framework further before 2015.
in writing. − the psm is an instrument introduced to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances in member states, with particular reference to those characterised by possible repercussions on other member states. according to the psm regulation, 'the commission should submit to the competent committees of the european parliament and to the council proposals for comments on the plans for the establishment and adjustment of indicators and thresholds' under a cooperation and coordination mechanism. however, the commission recently added a new indicator to the psm system, informing parliament only a few days before the publication of the evaluation plan. the commission is therefore asked to respect the rules on cooperation and proper information on the updating procedures which will be developed. i am in favour of this.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after 24 years in this parliament, i have the feeling that human rights are defended differently depending on the political and partisan interests of the groups. i regret the text of the resolution, which is too punitive in view of the changing social and political situation. we do not deny that there are difficulties and injustices on the part of the administration, but it governs a large territory straddling the european and asian worlds, which is still trying to heal the wounds left by the soviet union. those who have followed the events in kazakhstan in recent years have seen progress in improving dialogue. an example of this is the eurasian media forum, which for years has seen representatives of the press and television from the asian region and other areas of the world meet and discuss freely. as italian social conservatives and reformers, we are opposed to this resolution, which will do little to help a country which is struggling to implement international conventions, and we are concerned that the excessive hardness of parliament is likely to be a brake on a better constructive dialogue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a member of the central asian delegation, i have been to kazakhstan on several occasions, most recently last november. we must certainly address the human rights situation in kazakhstan. kazakhstan is a country in transition, on the way to becoming a prosperous country, and it must also meet its human rights obligations. but general condemnations are surely out of place. i would like to raise a point which is also included in the resolution we are discussing, namely the question of religious freedom. in the state of kazakhstan, over 100 religious communities live peacefully side by side. the fact that they have to be registered now and the way in which they have to be registered will not affect this coexistence in any way. we should look at what we are really criticizing and address the really difficult points.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with what the honourable member has said, we think it is appropriate to obtain the legal opinion before we vote, because the matter is still legally controversial. so, no preconceived notions about what will come out of the report; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the honourable member, who is also a member of the committee, what he thinks of a single european energy market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, renewable energy sources, together with energy efficiency measures and flexible and intelligent infrastructure, are the so-called 'no regrets' options identified by the commission. in future they will represent an increasing share of the energy supply. but unfortunately, pushing renewables without completing the single energy market, so as to ensure a fairer and more even distribution of energy sources, only increases costs. the commission itself forecasts an increase in the energy bill for a typical household user of +16% by 2030. today an italian company pays 130% more for energy than a french company and 80% more than a german company. this is unacceptable, as it is clearly unfair competition between countries of the union itself. without a single energy market, it becomes too expensive to promote renewable energy, except with very strong public incentives that are then paid for by citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on the pragmatic approach he has taken to this report. i believe that we must always pay attention to encouraging the development of renewable energy technologies. the other way, which concerns us very closely, is efficiency and energy saving. with these two possibilities we would achieve two results: the commission's proposal is to reduce our dependence on third countries - and thus our energy independence - and to try to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. i dream, commissioner, of an energy infrastructure leading to a true european network. i dream of energy storage that is fed when it is needed and of timely adjustment to meet the real needs of consumers. the incentive we give to renewables is paid for by the user and then partly thrown away, so this is a reasoning we need to do as soon as possible. to achieve all this, we need sustainable projects, framed in the perspective of public-private partnership, to make the most of the limited financial resources that the cef currently offers us, through alternative financial instruments. i think this is the way to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
thank you for the suggestion, mr. kelly. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 21 may 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safety of offshore oil and gas prospection, exploration and production activities (com(2011)0688 – c7-0392/2011 – 2011/0309(cod)) (a7-0121/2013).
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the text of the report, as i believe that it is appropriate to have european legislation on the safety of offshore activities, also in the wake of what we saw with the deepwater horizon disaster in the gulf of mexico in 2010. however, it was considered that a directive was the most appropriate legal instrument to avoid the risk of having to repeal and amend a large number of existing national provisions, a process which would have drained resources, already scarce, from the safety assessment and on-site inspections. pursuant to directive 2004/35/ec, authorisation holders are also the operators responsible for the security of operations and must, at all times, be competent to act in that regard. they must also reduce the risks of major accidents to a reasonable minimum, beyond which the cost of further risk reduction would be grossly disproportionate to the benefits gained. it is important that in the event of accidents with cross-border effects, emergency responses are more effective and that member states cooperate and coordinate with each other. the eu group of authorities for offshore oil activities can be used for this purpose.
in writing. in april 2010, an explosion on the deepwater horizon oil platform killed 11 men and leaked about 4.9 million barrels of crude oil. it took three months to seal the breach. the incident set in motion the review of the union's policies: the commission has launched an analysis of the safety of offshore oil and gas activities in european waters, which has revealed the need for further measures to ensure the spread across the union of best practices already covered by the legislation of some member states. i welcome the commission's proposal for a regulation because it contains concrete measures to overcome the disparities and fragmentation in the member states in the regulations in this specific area. it shall ensure that the sector uses best practices for controlling major risks and enhances its preparedness and response capacity to address major risks across the union. i believe that cooperation and the exchange of information between member states must also be strengthened. to this end, the recently established 'eu authorities group' should be more closely involved in the verification of the application and compliance with the existing legal framework on liability and compensation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that the eurema project, although it is, so to speak, a generous one, has not entirely achieved the results we all expected. it has been said: the fact that we have only 14 relocated persons and seven member states joining this project is a clear indication that we obviously expected much more. it is useful, however, to note what the commissioner has just said: the european union is a national forum which can be a tool for consultation and proposals and, above all, the shared need to make solidarity real, effective, authentic solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. there is the instrument provided for in the financial perspective 2014-2020, there is the instrument provided for in the asylum and migration fund, which is however currently severely reduced. we must therefore work seriously and diligently to ensure that the resources are adequate, so that the european union can take up a matter which is certainly its own - above all the european union's - with positive, determined action, which makes this instrument a concrete instrument that can achieve the desired effects this time.
in writing. it has been more than two years since the first massive wave of immigrants landed on italian shores, particularly in lampedusa. at the time, europe had pathetically turned its back on italy, allowing it to take on board this enormous flow of individuals, which was impossible to stop even because of the questionable international rules on the matter. our european friends have not thought for a moment of closing the frontiers, to the detriment of the much-vaunted solidarity and common european feeling. the paradox is that then everyone is quick to criticize others for how they handle these situations. landings at lampedusa have continued at a steady pace and continue today: italy is particularly vulnerable, given its geographical position, and cannot continue to be left alone to deal with what is a constant emergency. the european union must move quickly to organise a system of shared responsibility, in which we can perhaps find that real european added value, to which this parliament too often refers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy in the port of genoa, my city, where nine people died working at their desks in an environment which was supposed to ensure the safety of others, was not an accident. the harbor's levee had to be moved many years ago to accommodate the ever-growing ships, and the control tower had no protection. the people who should have been vigilant and preventing this have not done so and are morally responsible for it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the port authorities are able to comply with the requirements of the directive. i therefore call for action at european level in addition to the ongoing investigation by the italian judiciary.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of women's rights is always an important one, and it is even more so when it concerns countries which are moving towards the normalisation of democracy. it is very important, however, that this issue be taken into account both in the citizenship, as is normally done, and in the workplace. women are objectively a weak force in the labour market and are even more so when the crisis is raging and produces significant damage, such as the one that is right in front of everyone's eyes. for this reason, special attention must be paid to all aspects of the working methods and content of women, who often have difficulty finding employment - which is often poor employment because they lack sufficient knowledge - and are often penalized when carrying out their activities because they are discriminated against in relation to men in terms of pay or concrete rights. it is therefore desirable that citizenship and work should always be considered together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of freedom of the press is a very important one, a very delicate and complex one, not least because the restrictions on it are produced on different levels and are not always easily identifiable, especially by a superficial reading. there are freedoms that are denied through legislative acts this was the case in hungary there are other freedoms that are instead denied by concentration processes that exclude the smallest or the weakest and these are less visible, they are not immediately transposed, most of the time and then there are freedoms that are denied by virtue of the creation of a conflict of interest between those who manage a part of the communication system and at the same time manage or perform institutional or political functions of first importance; it's happened several times over the last few years in my country. i believe, however, that all these forms must be accompanied by an increased focus on the network. today, much of our communication is done through this channel, and this is where we must start if we want to have a process which guarantees full freedom for all, not just the traditional dimensions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report rightly underlines the importance and value of european industry, which is currently in crisis in many sectors, such as the textile and steel industries. however, it seems to me that the proposed solutions do not take into account what is the result of industrial presence in a territory, namely the wealth of skills and knowledge typical of an area, which has developed over time. there is always talk of encouraging the establishment of cultural and creative industries to replace old factories and production. i do not think that is the solution, it can be useful, but first of all we should defend the industries that still exist. europe should protect our textile and steel industries, for example, because they have shown over the centuries a capacity that is hard to find elsewhere. in tuscany we have the industrial districts of prato's textile industry and piombino's steel industry, productive excellences at international level which we can and must still defend and which i do not want europe to put an end to.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i certainly agree with the idea of fighting tax evasion and, above all, tax havens and perhaps also taxing the financial sector, which has unfortunately led to the current crisis. but i would also like to see it reflected in the lives of ordinary citizens, those who pay their taxes honestly and have done so up to now. i wonder if it is always a duty to pay taxes or if it comes to a point where paying taxes becomes expropriation by the state. let me give you some examples. in my country, you pay 45% in taxes for not having services; is it right to pay taxes if you don't have services? is it right to pay taxes and then see that your municipality doesn't have the money to pave the roads? is it right to pay them and then see them cut health care, to see that unfortunately schools don't work, to see that the whole state machine, to which you pay taxes, doesn't work? then there comes a point where you wonder what the right choice is. because you see, unfortunately in my country, businesses die because of taxes, they die because they want to pay taxes, and when the state has debts to these companies, these debts from the state are not paid. so let's also try to remember those honest citizens who pay their taxes and die for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, based on my experience as a member of parliament, there is a lot to be done. in 2009, our action against the italian tax shield was settling huge evasions by paying just 5% of the capital, violating european rules on competition, anti-money laundering, vat payment, and was treated with great hesitation by the commission, commissioner. it took more than a year to get satisfaction at least on vat. the commission was satisfied with a decree of the italian government which ordered the actual payment only in the event of a tax assessment. i'm glad that here, now, we're trying to change the pace. the fight against tax evasion must become a common policy, so that it has a better balance of forces than the actions of individual states. otherwise, let this struggle become a criterion of convergence, binding the member states to precise objectives as is done with inflation or debt. the results, i think, will come, for an economic convergence, but also for a convergence of civilizations. today, there is less funding for researchers and for the erasmus programme, for our young people and for our businesses. the recovery of funds which have been misappropriated and hidden in tax havens is also an opportunity to restore some credibility to the european institutions which, i repeat, have tolerated for too long without adequate supervision. it is a duty of our culture to oppose evasion, the evasion that is so widespread in the countries of the south but, i believe, not only; the commission has been tolerating this for a long time, even in brussels.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, minister creighton, commissioner šemeta, crossborder tax evasion is an alarming phenomenon which must be tackled with concrete measures, following a constructive discussion between european leaders. tax coordination between member states is needed to fill the current regulatory gap in this field. i think, however, that the level of taxation must be sustainable. in the context of the crisis, the aim must be to achieve a balance of payments that takes account of equitable income distribution and increased productivity. the economic difficulties faced by the member states, which are making efforts to consolidate public finances, must not make us forget the way out of the crisis and growth, based on structural reforms and targeted investment. in this respect, a coordinated tax system can enable states to put in place a range of incentives that can promote economic growth and support employment in the short term. the meeting tomorrow will therefore be an opportunity for the european heads of state and government to begin important reflections and considerations in view of the decisions to be taken in the coming months, which will be decisive for the revival of the competitiveness of the european system, while safeguarding families and the most vulnerable sections of our society. in this context, i cannot fail to mention the negotiations on the adoption of the new multiannual financial framework, which will make clear the council's willingness to invest in the european union and its potential, a willingness which parliament has already loudly expressed. i think it is time to abandon the path of proclamations and declarations on this subject too. we can't do more with less. we need a multiannual financial framework to meet the challenges we face. we must put in place concrete measures, moving away from a policy of austerity and austerity alone and towards a real push towards growth and development. the member states must now act with strong signals to the european citizens. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that adjustments to fiscal policies are also needed within the european union. we cannot think of going outside the union to combat tax evasion if we do not take the necessary steps within the union to have a fair and balanced level of taxation. we cannot think that there are countries within the union where it is possible to pay a much lower level of taxation than in other countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, commissioner, we are talking today about tax evasion and fraud, which have created a gap of a trillion in the annual budget of the european union. all this, which i personally consider a low estimate, is not damage caused by individual taxpayers, but by real criminal organizations: the biggest european banks are under investigation for tax evasion. we are striking at our citizens in the name of austerity and austerity, but austerity should serve above all to impose clear rules and transparency on the financial giants and the banking systems. italy, as mr rinaldi has already said, has in the past invented a criminal financial instrument called the tax shield, for the sole purpose of allowing the return of illicit capital resulting from criminal activities, arms trafficking, drugs, extortion and bribery. the european parliament has been silent about this, the european ministers have been silent about this. to be credible, we must immediately fill the regulatory gap. the crim committee, which i have the honour of chairing, has already identified several tax havens among the member states and we will be calling for exemplary sanctions. i ask the council to comment on the links between organised crime, money laundering and tax evasion; i would also ask the rapporteur to put her experience at the disposal of crim.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council meeting tomorrow will have on its agenda energy policy, fiscal policy, the fight against fraud, economic and monetary union, practically the whole european question. i also heard in the debate this morning that this is a technical council because there will be a political council in june. i believe that the political council and therefore the political strategy and therefore, as a colleague has said, the european route are the prerequisites for solving these problems. i would like to draw your attention in particular to the letter which the president of the european council has written to the presidents of the various countries. it is a letter of urgency, if not of despair at what has not been done, a letter of demand to do more, to be able to harmonize, to be able to intervene for the individual states not in an intergovernmental situation but in a more strategic situation, in a federal situation. europe has been opening up to this discussion in recent times and we see that on the part of france and perhaps germany itself there is a willingness to understand that the culture of rigor has been overcome and that we have had consolidation of accounts in various countries, but there has been no growth; i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the european parliament, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the european parliament. so, once again, parliament cannot give a specific indication of the real problems which the council must overcome, but a broad indication of a political path, as a prerequisite for solving all the problems of europe which are on the agenda for tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we have understood, the european council of tomorrow is likely to be more of a sectoral council, a ministerial council, than a political institution that feels itself invested with major decisions in the face of enormous problems. but something is moving on the european horizon. the need for a credible political unity is being re-awakened, and on the other hand there is a call for concrete and urgent initiatives for young people and employment. but perhaps none of this will be echoed in the council tomorrow, and so we hope that this responsibility, we ask that this responsibility be assumed by the council in june, because the moment of the test has come. the united states and japan are invoking the cycle of recovery and europe is expected to make a breakthrough, including its political legitimacy. but we will not pass the test with words, as my colleagues used to say, and if we continue on a double track, with big proclamations, big programmes and few means, sometimes contradictory. energy is an example, and i would like to ask the commissioner, but above all the council: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council must say something, even if it does not say something, but it must say something! and then, as regards infrastructure, on the one hand the council is talking about large investment plans and on the other hand the council itself, madam minister, is reducing the budget for the cef from 9 to 5 billion. which is the real council, the first or the second? i shall ask you formally to put this contradiction on the table tomorrow, you must have an answer. you also know that parliament is asking for these funds to be given more for investment instruments than for aid, 5 billion for aid is ridiculous - with the need that we have in europe - and the council is asking for participation, not leaving it to the commission alone to decide on priorities. this is consistency: decisions, not words, and above all consistency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am against this report because it is weak and lacks substance. it is not possible to recommend to the member states that they should proceed with caution in introducing new taxes, but it is necessary to tell the member states that they must stop imposing new taxes at a time when the crisis is leading to the closure of businesses and unemployment. i would also like to remind you that the directive which was intended to give the commission the power to decide on the cost of co2 allowances was rejected at the last plenary session, thanks only to the house's vote against it. if this proposal were to pass, it would have distorted the market and pushed manufacturing firms and energy-intensive industries to third countries. we must have the courage to say that the european union too must stop imposing strict accounting rules, instead of considering the need to revise the rules governing the european central bank. it is essential to amend the treaties so that the ecb, instead of financing banks at a ridiculous rate of 0.50%, can finance companies and governments at the same rate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that tax evasion and fraud are now more than ever an essential part of money laundering. the money laundering activities which very often form an essential part of criminal systems are being discussed in detail in the crim committee which will be approved as a mid-term report in june this year. the commission and the council can and must do more, starting with the revision of the savings directive. harmonising tax rules is essential, as is the exchange of selected and up-to-date information, tax fairness and solidarity, but also a banking union and cooperation agreements with third countries - particularly those third countries where there are tax havens - linking trade with information exchanges, banking secrecy and effective sanctions against banks, including withdrawal of licences.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr sarvamaa's text on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the eu and sri lanka. this text amends the agreements previously concluded in the parts which allow the government of sri lanka to unilaterally revoke, refuse or suspend the authorizations of a community air carrier, in the event that it is not owned or controlled by that member state or its nationals. i believe that this intervention is duly aimed at protecting european commercial interests.
in writing. the aim of the agreement is to put an end to discrimination against european carriers. in fact, as it stands, sri lanka can refuse, suspend and revoke the authorisations of an eu air carrier if the ownership or effective control of the aircraft is held by a national of another eu state. this is discrimination contrary to article 49 tfeu. i therefore vote in favour of this, in order to protect the interests of european airlines.
in writing. - pursuant to rule 81 of parliament's rules of procedure, we have been asked to give our opinion on an international agreement whose conclusion is subject to our approval. as relations between member states and third countries in the field of international air transport have always been governed by bilateral agreements, we consider it important to support the government of sri lanka, which has already signed 15 such agreements. when the commission negotiated the horizontal agreements with the third countries concerned in 2003, it allowed all european union carriers to enjoy the right of establishment and to have access without discrimination to routes between the eu and third countries. we therefore believe that it is essential that the provisions of the agreements signed by the sri lankan government be supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement concluded on behalf of the european union. in particular, we would like to stress the importance of article 2 of the agreement, which is aimed at regulating the designation of the authorization and the revocation of the authorization, but which explicitly provides that sri lanka may not discriminate against air carriers of member states of the european union on the basis of their nationality.
in writing. − in the field of international air transport, relations between member states and third countries are traditionally governed by bilateral air services agreements. these agreements contain a 'designation clause' which allows a third country to refuse, revoke or suspend the authorisations or licences of an air carrier designated by a member state but not substantially owned or effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. i agree with the rapporteur, who recommends that the committee on transport and tourism give its approval to the conclusion of the agreement, and i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the agreement between the member states of the european union and the government of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka is necessary to unify, replace and supplement the provisions of the 15 bilateral agreements already signed governing relations between member states and third countries on air services. as stated by the court of justice of the european union in 2002, there cannot be provisions in air service agreements which limit the benefits to one state only, and it is essential to overcome the designation clause, through an eu designation clause, so as not to limit the content to air carriers belonging to one member state only but to extend it to all carriers of the countries of the european union. having regard to the council decision authorising the commission in 2003 to reach an agreement on the solution of the problem; having regard to the agreement itself between the union and sri lanka, which underlines the commitment of the asian country not to discriminate against air carriers of member states on the basis of their nationality, thus resolving potential conflicts of laws which make the new provisions fully compliant with european union law, i express a favourable opinion.
in writing. - i support the kohlicek report on the 'agreement establishing a general framework for enhanced cooperation between the european union and the european organisation for the safety of air navigation'. i believe that cooperation between the eu and the intergovernmental organisation eurocontrol will speed up the implementation of the single sky legislation, without which europe risks losing the challenge of maintaining high levels of competitiveness and efficiency in european industry.
in writing. - the european union has, since its foundation, been able to find what unites it and give it more importance than what divides it. again, i see this underlying philosophy confirmed: the european union has a role to play in this area, and the eu is not the only one to have a role to play. a partnership ensures their expertise with our legal cover. we all have something to gain. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − since 2004, efforts have been made to bring the competences relating to the aviation sector, which until then had been the responsibility of the individual member states, under the community decision-making mechanism. this is to overcome the malfunctioning caused by the fact that airspace continues to be regulated according to national borders. the european industry must be made more competitive, and this would save 419 billion in the union's gdp and create up to 328 000 new jobs. i therefore vote in favour of the single sky project.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the agreement is a step towards strengthening relations between the european union and the european organisation for the safety of navigation, in particular by proposing particular synergies with the european aviation safety agency (easa). in particular, i welcome the confirmation of eurocontrol's role as the eu's technical and operational arm in the implementation of the single european sky (ses) programme. the programme aims to implement measures to make flights safer, greener and more cost-efficient, ultimately improving the service offered to citizens. it is hoped that the text of the agreement can be ratified and thus made operational as soon as possible.
in writing. − as expressly provided for in the single european sky legislation, the commission has designated eurocontrol as the single body for the assessment of performance, safety standards and air traffic management in europe since 2011. as eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation with 39 contracting parties from all over europe, we believe it is important to confirm it as the operational technical arm of the european union in the development and implementation of the single european sky programme. the agreement, which was signed provisionally in december last year, has been definitively approved by us today. we are convinced that the main objective of this agreement remains to improve cooperation between the european union and eurocontrol, with a view to strengthening its main role of assistance and coordination in the field of air safety. the establishment of a joint committee responsible for managing relations between the parties will, we are confident, ensure the proper application of the agreement.
in writing. − eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation with 39 contracting parties from all over europe, including all member states except estonia. in accordance with the single european sky (ses) legislation, the commission has designated eurocontrol as the performance evaluation body of the ses (in 2010) and as the network manager for atm network functions (in 2011). the objective of the agreement is to strengthen and consolidate cooperation between the european union and eurocontrol in order to enable eurocontrol to assist the eu in the implementation of the eusc and related european policies. i agree with the rapporteur that the agreement will make a further contribution to the achievement of the single european sky, and i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the report on the draft resolution on the conclusion of the agreement establishing cooperation between the european union and the european organisation for the safety of air navigation draws attention to the need to strengthen cooperation between the union and the intergovernmental organisation eurocontrol. i am in favour of the proposal because such cooperation would make an important contribution to the development and implementation of the cue (single european sky) programme which divides airspace into functional blocks in order to maximise the efficiency of its use and would enable eurocontrol to provide assistance to the eu by harmonising air traffic management and regulation, while keeping safety as a primary objective, without ignoring that european airspace is one of the most congested in the world. i also think it is useful that the agreement also provides for cooperation with the european aviation safety agency (aesa) on air traffic safety and environmental issues, as well as the establishment of a 'joint committee' responsible for the management and proper application of the agreement.
in writing. - i support the report by mr pack on the amendment of regulation (eec/euratom) no 354/83 on the storage of the historical archives of the institutions at the european university institute in florence. i believe that the amendments to this regulation will allow for the enhancement of the protection of personal data contained in the archive and, at the same time, for more effective consultation of the archive by making part of the archives available for electronic access where possible.
in writing. the regulation we have now adopted gives legal and financial stability to the preservation of the historical memory of all the european institutions. the archives in florence have been established on a contractual basis between the european institutions and the european university institute. it is now imperative to preserve and make available to the public and to scholars in an orderly manner all the documents which have built and are building europe. only the court of justice and the european central bank are exempt from this obligation, but may use the archives on a voluntary basis. the possible digitisation of the material stored will make it easier to consult and store it. in this way, knowledge of europe's roots will make its future path quicker and more confident. we must thank the italian government for providing a complex of buildings of extraordinary value, which are appropriate to the beauty of the european project. i should also like to thank the council and the commission for the speed with which the regulation was finalized and the parliament for the unanimous agreement it expressed. i am particularly grateful to the committee on culture and education and its chairman, mr pack. my committee, the afco, has been able to work together in complete harmony and with great determination.
in writing. the report concerns the amendment of the regulation on the deposit of eu archives at the university institute of florence. the changes concern the financing of these archives, their availability by electronic means and the protection of personal data contained therein. since the amendments do not affect the basis of the regulation, being marginal, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the proposal for a council regulation which we have approved today finally provides a more solid legal and financial framework for cooperation between the european union and the european university institute in florence than the present one. the latter has always been responsible for managing the historical archives of the institutions of the union, having, thanks to a contract with the italian government, suitable premises at its disposal to house the archives on a permanent basis and free of charge. the amendments adopted today make it almost an explicit obligation for each institution of the european union to deposit its archives with the institute, and they set out in detail the system for financing archives and the possibility of using these archives electronically, where possible. the most interesting part is certainly the one concerning the obligation to finance the european university institute from the general budget of the union, i.e. through contributions from the depositing institutions, based on the criterion that the amount of the contributions is proportional to the size of the respective staffing tables of the depositing institutions. finally, in the light of these amendments, we consider it important that the text recognises the european data protection supervisor as the supervisory authority over the eu institutions, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 45/2001.
in writing. − the historical archives of the eu institutions are an important source of information on the history and heritage of the european union. it is therefore essential to allow access to archives for public consultation and preservation of information relating to the eu institutions and to support research on the history of european integration. agreeing that the proposal for a council regulation currently under consideration by the european parliament under the assent procedure (article 81 (1) of the regulation) provides a more solid legal and financial framework for cooperation between the eu and the ieu, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i welcomed the proposal to amend commission regulation (eec/euratom) no 354/83 governing the keeping of the historical archives of the union by the florence eui. this proposal not only confirms the european university institute in florence as the manager of the historical archives of the institutions of the union but also lays the legal and financial foundations for interinstitutional cooperation. i consider it important that the institutions' files should be made available to the public by means of electronic documents thanks to optical archiving, that the institutions should be required to deposit all documents in their archives with the eui and that management costs should be financed by contributions from the eu budget. archives are part of europe's cultural and historical heritage and it is significant that the union, in addition to respecting the diversity of eu countries, is keen to protect and develop europe's cultural heritage as preserved in the records of our institutions.
in writing. − the historical archives of the european institutions are an important resource for the history of the union: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the european union's activities in the field of archives. i therefore voted in favour of the text presented by mrs on. pack, considering that this proposal for a regulation provides a more appropriate legal basis and a financial framework to improve cooperation between the eu and the european university institute in florence.
in writing. − the forthcoming european elections will be of particular importance as they could bring about a revival of european integration, despite the ongoing economic crisis and the growing distrust of the eu fuelled by populism. but the next vote may well be the turning point. it is a question of making the european citizens understand what is at stake and convincing them of the decisive effectiveness of their vote. the resolution we have just adopted is part of a set of instruments designed to achieve this objective. this means allowing the president of the commission and the commission as a whole to be appointed shortly after the vote, so that citizens can feel the effectiveness of their democratic participation. of course, this positive effect is added to another more substantial argument in favour of early voting: the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the measure which is desired by the adoption of this resolution must of course be consistent with other more far-reaching rules, first of all the one which, by defining the statute of european political parties, allows a better spread of european consciousness which will guide citizens to make informed choices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the decision to move the date of the european elections from 22 to 25 may 2014 seems absolutely right and reasonable. the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the member states, and the commission has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the member states. it is worth every effort to ensure that european citizens can choose their representatives in the european parliament and thus help to close the democratic deficit of which europe is too often accused.
in writing. − in many of the member states the pentecost weekend will coincide with the previously chosen election period, i.e. 5-8 june 2014, so i voted in favour of moving this date forward to 22-25 may 2014. this will also give parliament more time to prepare for the election of the president of the european commission, since for the first time political parties will have to announce their candidate for this prestigious post. we are therefore awaiting the council's decision, which will have to be taken by june on the alternative electoral period.
in writing. − the request to consult the council on the draft amendment of the electoral period for the european elections is the result of a wish expressed several times in the past, in particular in the february 2012 report adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs. in order to enable the countries of the european union to organise and hold the elections in the most appropriate and correct way possible, and in view of the importance of this decision, we consider it essential to act swiftly and decisively in this matter, using the simplified procedure provided for in article 46 of our rules of procedure. we have therefore today voted in favour of moving the next european consultation period forward, which will take place in all 28 member states at the same time, from thursday 22 to sunday 25 may 2014, and not, therefore, from 9 to 12 june. in view of the fact that many member states celebrate pentecost in june, we thought it appropriate to approve the proposal for a council decision in its present form, in order to avoid overlapping the electoral period with the religious holiday. we also believe that this advance is essential to give the new parliament more time and to prepare it for the election of the new president of the european commission in july.
in writing. − the request echoes a wish already expressed several times in the past, in particular in the report adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs on 1 february 2012 on a proposal to amend the electoral act regarding the possibility of holding elections in the period from 15 to 18 may or from 22 to 25 may 2014. i agree with the rapporteur, who recommends that the committee on constitutional affairs adopt the proposal for a council decision in its present form and as soon as possible, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - having regard to the report by mr casini, i am in favour of the adoption of the proposal for a council decision by the committee on constitutional affairs as it stands at present and thus of bringing forward the election period for the eighth elections of the representatives of the european parliament, in order to avoid it coinciding with the long weekend of pentecost. also bearing in mind the resolution of 22 november 2012 in which parliament asked the council to be consulted on the possibility of assessing two periods in may and considering that the council has accordingly decided to set the new elections from thursday 22 to sunday 25 may 2014, i am confident that the decision on the new date will be adopted swiftly, so as to enable the governments of the member states to make the necessary arrangements for the organisation of the elections.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur on most of the points put forward and have therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − at the sitting on 14 january 2013, the president informed, pursuant to rule 6 (2), that he had received a request from the greek authorities to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr spyros danellis. the president then referred the request to the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, pursuant to rule 6 (2). on the basis of the foregoing considerations, having examined the grounds for and against the waiver of the member's immunity and in agreement with the rapporteur who recommends that the european parliament waive the parliamentary immunity of spyros danellis, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i agree with the report by mr lehne on the application of directive 2004/25/ec on public procurement. member states transposed this directive in 2006 to harmonise the rules on takeover bids. unfortunately, the adoption of the legislation coincided with the onset of the economic crisis and therefore, at present, it is not possible to assess its application correctly as there is no data to confirm any changes or harmonisation measures to be taken in the future.
in writing. − after a long procedural process, this important directive aimed at harmonising the rules on public procurement in the european union has been adopted. i agree with the european commission's assessment of the application of this instrument in the internal rules: additional harmonisation measures are necessary. it must be acknowledged, however, that the onset of the economic crisis has had a negative impact on the potential of these new rules. it is therefore worth waiting to consider the introduction of further amendments to the directive. i voted in favour because i agree with the points made.
in writing. − the market has suffered from a lack of funds to implement the may 2006 apa directive, which makes it difficult to assess its proper application. the report highlights some of the features of the directive: the level playing field between all member states, the competence of national authorities as regards supervision, concerted action to understand when the takeover obligation is triggered, national derogations for minority shareholders and the rules on informing employees of a company subject to takeover. i am voting in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. the report adopted today concerns the definition of the rules governing public procurement, which have been the subject of harmonisation at european level for many years. there is no doubt that the economic crisis that erupted in 2008 severely affected the highly contracted public tender market, which was only partly offset by financial transactions. the revision of company law, which is not limited to the rules on takeover bids, must therefore be reversed by a revival of the sector. the report also calls for the commission to monitor the development of the market for corporate control and to prepare an analysis of the impact of the application of the directive when acquisition activity returns to pre-crisis levels.
in writing. - we have today welcomed mr lehne's request for a review of directive 2004/25/ec, adopted at the end of 2003, on public tenders, as we do not consider it to be exhaustive in its context of application. we believe that we should consider the possibility of introducing additional harmonisation measures at european union level, thanks to some data from external studies and on the basis of several reports from the commission itself, which suggest to us the need for a careful review of the directive. in the light of financial and economic developments in recent years, with particular reference to the financial crisis that has affected europe since 2007, we believe that there have been strong and dramatic repercussions on the financing of acquisitions. considering that support for m&a activity is essential for the proper functioning of the market and noting, furthermore, that market participants have suffered from credit shortages and that low equity prices due to the crisis have made equity acquisitions less attractive, we believe that further data collection is necessary not only to ascertain the need for changes to the directive but also to define the precise harmonisation measures to be taken in the near future.
in writing. - with regard to the motion for a resolution on the application of the directive on takeover bids, i expressed my favourable opinion because it seeks to safeguard the rights of shareholders, employees and other interested parties during the conduct of takeover bids. the economic and financial situation of recent years has limited the evaluation of the application of the directive because of the crisis which has had a worrying impact on the financing of acquisitions, but i consider the plan to protect workers' rights during acquisition processes and the provision to guarantee their representatives the rights of information and consultation, as well as the right to participate in the acquisition phases, to be able to negotiate on issues affecting their assistants, to be important. i also think it is important to adopt a system of controls and sanctions to combat violations of workers' rights and to make use of specific eu funds to help companies deal with the consequences of hostile takeovers.
in writing. the text presented by mr lehne, chairman of the committee on legal affairs, shares the approach of the european commission, which stresses the need to propose harmonised rules on public procurement within the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because the european industrial sector, which has been in serious difficulty for several years, still remains a fixed point in gdp. the cause of the decline is in most cases linked to the backwardness of the industrial fabric and that is why europe, in order to emerge from the crisis, must provide concrete tools for those in difficulty, we must help them in an intelligent, creative way, following the most virtuous examples. there are several areas and infrastructures that could be reused, reinvented through the use of new technologies. such a change cannot be made immediately because it requires not only time but also considerable economic resources. in this sense, it is not possible to ask local authorities or local authorities, which are unable to provide basic services to their citizens, to pay for these measures. europe must help businesses to make the best use of the community's resources, the only resources that are certain and available for the coming years, resources needed for development, growth and jobs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because industry is certainly one of the main strengths of european competitiveness on the world stage. however, industrial policy still shows a certain lack and insufficiency of political initiative on the part of the union, despite the intention to increase the share of industrial production in eu gdp by 2020. the difficulties of old industrial regions, which have suffered a serious economic decline in recent years, are proof of this lack of policy and of the excessive tension which the community authorities have blindly wished to place solely on the need for financial discipline in public budgets. the report we have approved also stresses that industrial policy tends to focus on the specific day-to-day problems of industry and that further aid measures should be introduced to assist the old industrial regions. more importantly: it notes that more integrated and systematic approaches would be needed at the level of the european union. greater effort and efficiency are needed to help local authorities too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for the report on regional strategies for industrial areas, because i have always considered and still consider it essential that this issue be dealt with in an appropriate manner in the current negotiations on the regulations concerning the structural funds for the period 2014-2020. in fact, in order to achieve the europe 2020 objectives, which are an integral part of the regulations, it is necessary to take into account the need to restructure or reconvert old industrial regions. at the same time, however, it seems appropriate and necessary to require, in view of the specific characteristics of each region, also in the industrial sector, that the regions adopt an integrated approach to a very complex issue such as industrial conversion, which must involve economic, environmental, labour and social policies in the broadest sense.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the shadow rapporteur for this report i can only support the work of the committee on regional development and, above all, stress the importance of the appeal we make to the commission in this report. the revival of industrial policy is of fundamental importance. if we look at the data of the last years, we see that from 2008 to 2011 there was a loss of 4 percentage points of gdp in industrial production with a decrease of 11% in employment. the relaunch of industrial action is essential, but it is equally important that the european union should begin to use its instruments in an integrated way, not just to relaunch sectors. it is important that this action announced and communicated by vice-president tajani finds its synergistic and productive dialogue with cohesion policy. only in this way will the relaunch of industrial policy and therefore the action announced by the commission be able to produce its effects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the rapporteur's proposal for the reindustrialisation of those areas which have been particularly exposed to radical decline and which now need specific support. the european industry accounts for 16% of the union's gdp, so a solution must be found to halt the decline. the commission must ensure and facilitate the use of the cohesion fund, which can help to revive european smes and, through regional plans, to reconvert industrial areas where europe has been at the forefront, thereby encouraging the development of specific infrastructures affecting transport, energy and telecommunications. the new programming period 2014-2020 could offer opportunities to overcome administrative boundaries and accompany the conversion process, devoting not only the cohesion fund but also a large part of those unused structural funds to modernisation, diversification and tax-free strategies, especially for smes and craft industries, with a particular focus on areas affected by natural disasters or otherwise disadvantaged.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the industrial sector can play a role in boosting the economy in europe, because according to the commission for every 100 jobs created in industry, 60 to 200 new jobs can be created in related sectors. unfortunately, with the crisis, there was a reduction in production of up to 20% and jobs were reduced by up to 11%. in view of the forthcoming programming, better formulation and implementation of the structural funds is needed, including policies aimed at the conversion of old industrial areas and especially the reindustrialisation of industrial areas in crisis, involving in particular young people. the aim is to safeguard employment levels by safeguarding the industrial heritage in terms of cultural, historical and architectural heritage and above all skills and know-how.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides in article 173 that: 'the union and the member states shall ensure that the conditions necessary for the competitiveness of the union industry are met.' the industrial sector of the european union has always been a driving force for job creation, economic growth and the promotion of innovation in all regions of the union. european industry accounts for about 16% of the union's gdp. however, even as a result of the decline of many traditional industries, such as coal, steel or textiles, which had contributed to the prosperity of several regions for decades, some regions are experiencing economic difficulties. many of them are therefore dependent on european funding to support the conversion and restructuring of industrial areas. it is clear that, in the context of the economic and financial crisis, the high ambitions of the union's industrial policy and the europe 2020 strategy cannot be achieved by sectoral policies alone, but support from cohesion policy measures becomes strategic. in this context, the new instruments proposed in the draft regulation laying down provisions for the new programming period 2014-2020 could offer a concrete opportunity to overcome administrative boundaries and accompany the industrial restructuring process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the geier report on regional strategies for industrial areas in the european union. a coordinated approach is needed at community, national, regional and interregional level in order to exploit the full potential of the european economy, in particular through the combined use of the cohesion fund and the structural funds.
in writing. - i strongly support the report, which reflects the values underlying our vision for the future of europe and our economies. in other cases, it was considered possible, partly due to the inadequate responsibilities of local governments, to deal with the manufacturing crisis that began in the 1990s with automatic and hasty strategies that favoured services and tertiary services, even where there were obviously neither resources nor relevant markets. i particularly agree with the points made in paragraph 10, noting that a more compelling scheme, for example the fas funds, would have resulted in conversion operations being more consistent with medium- and long-term objectives. the theme of reindustrialisation, based on high added value and technological advantage, is becoming central today as global governance bodies are confronting the problem of the hypertrophic growth of a purely financial economy that ends up damaging real economies and the quality of life in our communities. i believe it is a wise strategy, as well as a moral duty, to direct resources towards the recovery or return of productivity in our industrial districts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i appreciate the pragmatic approach of the rapporteur. increasing attention to and incentives for the development of renewable energy technologies has a twofold positive effect. firstly, to reduce the dependence on third countries, which is proving to be increasingly burdensome from an economic and political point of view, and secondly, to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the protection of the environment. in the light of the discussions currently under way to revise certain existing biofuel directives, i would like to remind you that in this specific sector, care must be taken to ensure that intensive cultivation of products intended to become alternative fuels does not undermine food security and is not counterproductive. this activity can only be of real benefit to our objectives if the total amount of energy used for cultivation does not exceed the amount saved. another key point is the need to complete and strengthen the transfrontier transmission networks. often sites suitable for renewable energy production are located in marginal locations. unless we ensure that there is a real european energy network, we will never be able to reap the benefits that renewable energy offers us.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by parliament which deals with a subject of fundamental importance: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. it is undeniable that industry, with its 16% contribution to european gdp, is one of the union's strengths. the old industrial regions, which have produced a great deal of wealth, are now facing a period of serious decline, aggravated by the economic crisis, and therefore deserve a rapid and effective conversion strategy. it is therefore urgent to use all financial instruments to achieve the ambitious target of raising the level of contribution to gdp from 16% to 20% by 2020. in particular, the resources made available through cohesion policy and the structural funds, together with those provided by the european investment bank, must be managed in an integrated manner with national and regional resources, so as to optimise the result. at the same time, policies should include employment, training and education components to support young people and innovative smes.
in writing. the report focuses on those areas of europe which have seen intensive industrialisation followed by economic decline. it recognises the importance of industry in funding research, development and innovation but also stresses that the measures taken often do not address the specific problems of the various regions. new aid is needed in this regard. these include the redevelopment of housing, the renewal of infrastructure, the development of sustainable forms of transport and new skills. since the report also proposes the creation of high-technology parks based on cross-border cooperation, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the industrial sector has always been a driving force for job creation, growth and the promotion of innovation in all regions of the european union. it is important to remember that although the importance of the industrial sector has declined over the last 50 years, european industry still accounts for around 16% of eu gdp. for all the areas that have suffered the most from the crisis, with a phenomenon of gradual, if not incessant, closure of industrial plants, it is necessary to think of a common strategy of redevelopment and conversion, in order to guarantee growth and prosperity and not fall into the abyss of recession. many regions in the european union are now dependent on finance to support the conversion and restructuring of their old industrial areas. the report stresses that sustainable regeneration in formerly industrialised regions is very expensive. i think that an effort to do so is necessary. europe, in the name of growth, can and must respond to the needs of the territories. european public funding should play an important role in the effort to reconvert abandoned industrial areas. of course, i am also convinced that resources cannot be wasted. there is a need for foresight and planning to highlight the risks and possible benefits of an operation such as this.
in writing. the historic period of crisis we are living through is seeing industrial production fall from 20% to 16%. although industrial jobs have fallen by 11%, industry remains one of the main strengths of the european economy and represents a real opportunity for economic recovery in the member states. i therefore support the decision to adopt targeted regional strategies for the structural transformation of the old industrialised regions in order to create new paths of development and growth. in detail, industrial districts, as exemplified by the italian case, have been excellent examples of social and economic development, through the development of highly professional and specialised local realities. with the economic crisis and the advent of globalisation, unfortunately, the industrial district system has also lost its competitiveness and taken a hit. the implementation and planning of policies for the development of regional industrial areas, through targeted investment strategies, is therefore a key starting point for the development of the european economy and of the individual member states.
in writing. − the proposal to provide support and guidance for decision-making in support of integrated territorial investment, which was adopted here today, focuses on the need to assist in the development of regional development strategies for old industrial areas. although each region has its own characteristics and there is currently no programme for a regional strategy for industrial areas, this own-initiative report aims to highlight the common features shared by all the old industrialised regions in order to identify opportunities and solutions. recently, due to the decline of many traditional industries, many regions of the european union have become dependent on european funding to support the conversion and restructuring of old industrial areas. given that, in the context of the economic crisis, the ambitions of the european union's industrial policy and the europe 2020 strategy cannot be achieved by sectoral policies alone, we believe that support from cohesion policy measures has become essential. as a result of the eu enlargement process, regional disparities have increased and as a result public awareness has moved away from the old industrialised areas. in the light of these considerations, we strongly believe that eu cohesion policy can play a leading role in such a context.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on regional strategies for industrial areas in the european union. the european industrial sector has always been a driving force for job creation, growth, the promotion of innovation and european integration itself. the decline of many traditional industries, such as coal, steel and textiles, which had contributed to the prosperity of many regions, has made these regions particularly vulnerable to decline and in need of specific support. despite the economic and financial crisis, the european union must provide financial support for these regions, promoting the conversion and restructuring of their old industrial areas, with a view to a process of industrial redevelopment that will enable european industry to regain a central role in the continent's economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on regional strategies for industrial areas in the european union because i believe that the conversion and restructuring of industrial areas is necessary after the downsizing of european industry in recent decades. it is important to work on well-structured regional strategies to reconvert and develop old areas. strategies that will have to be environmentally sustainable, aiming at reducing carbon dioxide emissions and including measures to protect water, soil and air quality so that no harmful substances are released into the environment. given their high costs, these strategies will have to be implemented by relying on european but also national funding and the sale of abandoned industrial properties located in attractive locations. i believe it is essential that these processes also reduce health risks and the regions concerned will have to give greater importance to the participation of groups of citizens in the decision-making processes for planning the use of their territories.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on the safety of offshore oil exploration, research and production aims to ensure, through a clear and updated framework, the dissemination in the european union of best practices already adopted by some member states. drilling is going deeper and deeper into dangerous waters where most of the oil fields are located, and only through reform involving both governments and industry will we be able to avoid environmental disasters such as those we often hear about in the newspapers or on television. one of the main issues to be stressed is the importance of ensuring that the authorities responsible for assessing the safety and environmental risks of drilling operations are independent of the authorities responsible for authorizing drilling.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the adoption of this directive and the imposition of stricter limits on offshore oil exploration, as well as the provision of clear rules in terms of financial and economic liability for companies responsible for any damage to the environment. italy is second only to the united kingdom in the number of offshore installations, mainly located in the adriatic basin, a bassinethat is virtually closed and therefore all the more at serious risk if an accident should occur in its waters. the mediterranean is also one of the most biodiverse ecoregions in the world, with almost a quarter of the world's oil tankers passing through its waters. the italian installations are certainly less dangerous in terms of size, landform and technical characteristics than those in the north sea or the baltic sea, but this should not lead us to let down our guard with regard to safety and environmental protection. it is of paramount importance to avoid offshore drilling activities being carried out in the vicinity of tourist areas or where the effects on coastal communities and the marine environment would be devastating.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal, as did my colleagues in the epp group, because i believe it is important, in the light of the 2010 deepwater horizon oil rig disaster, that companies based in the union operate worldwide in compliance with eu safety standards. not only should such high standards be promoted internationally in appropriate international and regional fora, but mechanisms to ensure that they are applied should also be further explored. the proposal for a regulation on the safety of offshore exploration activities is a very important piece of legislation in this respect. it is also a unique opportunity for the eu to address some serious shortcomings and to create a genuine security culture based on concrete measures and not, as is often the case, on mere bureaucracy. by ensuring a level playing field and reducing the margin for national, as well as regional, interpretation, the objective of the regulation can be effectively achieved, ultimately benefiting industry, national administrations and eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr belet analysing the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the safety of offshore oil exploration, research and production. the need for european legislation to regulate the safety of this type of operation became clear following the deepwater horizon disaster in the gulf of mexico in 2010. i would like to reiterate my support for the principle: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because it was intolerable not to have a certain regulatory framework in the event of serious accidents in offshore activities linked to the extraction of hydrocarbons. we all remember the damage from the deepwater horizon tragedy in 2010, and none of us want anything like that to happen again. the first point concerns the prevention of accidents, and i think the rapporteur has done a very good job of finding the right text to deal with this. if something goes wrong, then there must be valid and effective emergency management protocols, and i think the text is appropriate on this second point too. finally, the allocation of responsibilities and competences must be clear, so as to avoid duplication which only harms the environment and workers. and here too the text proposed is very good. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. − the need for european legislation in this area was already anticipated in april 2010, following the deepwater horizon accident in the gulf of mexico. the basic principles of this directive are as follows: who pollutes pays; the operator must have primary responsibility for the safety of operations and must have the competence to act, the public operator must be able to participate in the decision-making process and effective enforcement measures must also be taken. i am voting in favour of this.
in writing. - the news media have given us striking examples of the damage that offshore mining can cause. safety considerations are therefore needed to limit the possibility of accidents occurring off the european coast. a clear and defined regulatory framework is needed to achieve this. raising safety standards throughout the european union is the first step in this path of control and prevention. but as the report points out, the following are also essential: responsible licensing, the appointment of national safety authorities, the monitoring of drilling and clear environmental responsibility. the italian offshore activities, which have been operating since the 1960s, have never had a major accident or significant damage to the environment. in particular, italy has had no offshore accidents in the last 10 years, thanks to one of the most advanced regulations in the sector in europe. in other areas, where the weather conditions and operating procedures are different, however, the risk rises considerably. an accident, wherever it occurs in europe, has economic and environmental consequences affecting the whole community. it is therefore essential to start thinking about how to unify the rules in this area.
in writing. - having welcomed the european commission's proposal on the safety guarantees for offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector, we have today approved a report suggesting some changes to strengthen it. recent major accidents have highlighted the limitations of offshore oil and gas installations, necessitating a safety response to ensure the protection of the eu marine environment in the event of major and potentially dangerous accidents. the proposal to require operators more clearly to implement the financial guarantees necessary to cover the costs of cleaning and compensation in the event of major accidents is unquestionably in line with the european union's environmental principle that 'the polluter pays'. we also believe that the provisions on public sector participation should be strengthened by introducing rules to ensure that the community is informed about major accidents and measures taken to limit environmental damage. finally, we hope that the work of the authorizing authorities will be in line with the relevant european directives, paying particular attention to ecologically sensitive marine environments and supporting employees with ever greater protection.
in writing. − we all remember the terrible disaster caused by the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in april 2010, which killed 11 workers and spilled some 5 million barrels of crude oil into the sea: the environmental consequences have not yet been fully calculated, and we will probably be feeling them for a long time. it is therefore understandable that stricter rules and safer rules are needed in this sector, since the dangers and risks arising from this type of activity can be very serious. i regret, however, that this parliament has rejected an amendment to ensure greater protection for tourist areas and geologically unstable areas, where i believe offshore drilling should be banned: the environment must be respected as much as possible, especially where it requires special consideration. no one wants to stop research and development of new energy sources, but we must always act with the utmost care so that the damage caused by fate or imperfection does not prove to be unsustainable in the long run, both for nature and for man.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the safety of gas and oil drilling operations. the new rules will oblige companies to prove their ability to cover potential damage arising from their activities, requiring them to submit a report on possible hazards and solutions before operations can begin. high standards are increasingly needed when it comes to risk management.
in writing. − the environmental accident of the deepwater horizon oil platform, which resulted in the spill of 780,000 m3 of crude oil in the gulf of mexico in 2010, has drawn the union's attention to the need to review eu policies to ensure greater safety in this area. i believe that best practice in the legislation of some member states needs to be disseminated throughout the eu and that it would be important to enhance cooperation between member states in order to exchange useful information on experience and expertise in accident prevention. i also welcome the need to involve the european maritime safety agency (emsa) in the preparation of contingency plans which promote regular exercises on possible risks. we expect union-based companies engaged in oil exploration and production worldwide to carry out their operations in accordance with the relevant eu safety rules everywhere and it will be important to promote these standards in international venues and thus to ensure their application. in addition, the licensing authorities should pay more attention to ecologically sensitive marine environments and also study any geological risks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely imperative to promote the development of renewable energy sources. renewable energy, in addition to helping us fight climate change and strengthen europe's energy independence, offers clear environmental benefits, such as reducing air and waste pollution, increasing water protection and savings, and eliminating the risks associated with other forms of energy production. the european union has decided to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020 as indicated in the roadmap for a resource efficient europe. we call on the commission to propose an ambitious and binding union-wide target for 2030 to achieve a renewable economy by 2050. this commitment will ensure continuity and stability for companies wishing to invest in this sector. with the green technology market we are strengthening our industries for sustainable economic growth by creating, as the european commission has estimated, over three million jobs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the european union today is very much dependent on energy imports and therefore the time has come to start really promoting the development of our industries and new job opportunities by focusing on the new generation energy market. a secure, independent, diversified and low-emission energy supply throughout europe is certainly a goal and an opportunity to be realised; i am thinking in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises producing renewable energy on the energy market to promote the competitiveness of our industries and the creation of new green jobs. finally, the large-scale deployment of renewable energy sources also represents an opportunity for individual households and communities to become energy producers. experience has shown that to do this, binding long-term targets are needed, and it is therefore very important that, after this vote, the european commission sets a binding 2030 target for renewable energy in its new proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reference in the report we have adopted to the need for the european union to make a stronger and more binding commitment by 2030 to the share of renewable energy in the community's energy mix is undoubtedly making it stronger politically. the diversification of the european energy mix is based on a wide range of renewable energy technologies, which can ensure greater independence of the union from energy imports, which are still too high today, and greater autonomy from conventional energy sources, as well as concrete support for industrial recovery, in particular of energy-intensive industries in crisis, such as those in italy, for example, which concern the region from which i come, sardinia. secondly, greater diversification would ensure greater security of energy supply and greater environmental sustainability of energy production. finally, in implementing these policies, it should not be forgotten that the deployment of wind farms and solar panels can have an impact on the landscape and, consequently, on the tourism industry in small communities and islands. greater public consultation at local level should therefore be both necessary and mandatory.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, renewable energy policy is of the utmost importance for the future of the european union. it has already created 500 000 new jobs and will create more in the coming years. however, there are some important caveats to be aware of. first of all: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the anti-dumping measures on chinese solar panels are not circumvented if certain countries acceding to the european union allow them to enter and that when these countries become an integral part of the union, they will have bypassed the anti-dumping measures. this is therefore a new fraud and a new danger. another aspect is the lack of constant and precise verification and control of the locations of some of these alternative energy instruments. we think about a lot of fields that should be agricultural and instead are used for solar panels, whereas instead all the roofs of buildings, factories, public facilities should have this system for creating energy. another warning is that too often foodstuffs that are supposed to be food or otherwise intended for livestock farming may be unfairly used for renewable energy. it's not renewable energy that destroys another heritage. i therefore welcome the report, which is very much in favour of further development, but i also support the call for effective controls and equal rules for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the binding targets set by the 2020 climate and energy package have given a strong impetus to the development of renewable energy and the green economy in europe, which holds the potential for growth and employment. continuing to invest in renewables is not only useful but necessary to move towards a european economy that is fossil-free, based on sustainability and energy independence. central to this design are the regional distribution networks needed to manage the integration of renewable energy production while maintaining security of supply. in order to provide certainty to investors and the market, it is essential that the european commission presents as soon as possible a legislative proposal on the new climate package, setting out the new targets to be achieved by 2030.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the renewable energies must be given maximum attention because the debate on energy is central and vital. the keywords must be: accessibility and sustainable prices. but i would like to make a few observations: gas in europe is four times more expensive than in the united states, and energy is twice as expensive. households spend between 7 and 17% on energy; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. so let us welcome the debate, but above all we need investment in infrastructure to rationalise supply and lower prices and also to make the technological leap for renewables. if we want to keep european industries in europe, if we want european companies to stay in europe, we must have competitive energy solutions.
in writing. − this report is part of the european debate on the promotion of renewable energy after 2020. in general, i share the need expressed in this report to carefully assess the costs and benefits associated with the introduction of a binding european target for 2030. in the light of national and european experience on the implementation of directive 2009/28/ec, i do not think it is cost-effective and effective to set a binding european target for 2030, while i believe that an indicative european target could be useful to set the path for future guidance on this matter. i believe that adequate support for research and development in this area is essential for the introduction of new renewable sources on the market, as is the strengthening of measures to facilitate the complicated process of building renewable energy production facilities. as the rapporteur has pointed out, the extreme disparity in the incentive schemes for renewable sources implemented by the member states has led to serious distortions of the internal market. i therefore share the request to the commission to harmonise incentive schemes at european level and to consider the advisability of entrusting a european superpartite authority with the responsibility of overseeing the harmonisation process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by mr herbert reul, together with my colleagues from the ppe group, because i am convinced that action is needed to progressively increase the share of renewable energy sources in the energy supply of the countries of the european union, thus helping to reduce the dependence of our territories on fossil fuels. however, this will undoubtedly require the setting of sustainable targets and goals, including the redefinition of the eu roadmap to 2050. it should not be forgotten, among other things, that about half of europe's power stations will have to be replaced in the next decade and that the supply system will have to be made more modern and flexible in view of the increase in the share of renewable energy in the electricity, heating and transport sectors. it is a challenge the eu must take up if we are to make a decisive contribution to tackling climate change and to strengthening our energy independence. in addition, reducing the use of oil and its derivatives will undoubtedly bring benefits in terms of reducing air pollution, waste generation and water use for industrial purposes.
in writing. − recent independent studies identify res as a sector where europe retains a significant advantage: it is sufficient to consider that, as in 2012, individual member states are still among the top five investors in the five key sectors. germany and spain are immediately followed by the usa and china in terms of overall capacity excluding the hydro sector; in solar, four out of five of the top five global players are member states. across the union, the strong potential for cost reduction through new technologies is already altering the landscape, evolving towards mixed systems, based on widespread production and environmental awareness, to the point where the major fossil fuel energy players are at an advanced stage in their diversification and conversion processes, with greater emphasis on control of networks and services. this means that the rapporteur's recommendations, from targets above 30% of the mix, to the value of res for technological development, the growth of human capital, the diversification of energy sources, their potential for the single market, the importance of industrial and environmental policies, as well as the development of more environmentally sustainable lifestyles, are fully shared and justify my vote in favour.
in writing. − this proposal aims to highlight the benefits and advantages that member states and consumers can derive from renewable energy by implementing a series of changes that can ensure continued progress in the european internal energy market. i agree with the desire to facilitate the entry of new players into the market in order to increase competition and thus lower energy prices for consumers. the development of renewable energy is also important for the exploitation of biomass: waste represents a major opportunity for achieving the objectives of the european energy plan. i agree that europe must make further efforts in research, development and industry to make progress in renewable energy technologies. i agree with the call on the commission to help the member states to identify the most economically viable renewable energy sources in order to reduce costs and not hinder technological development. i have given a favourable opinion on this motion for a resolution and i fully agree with the views expressed.
in writing. − renewable energy sources will increasingly become the main source of energy supply for the eu in the future. the use of biomass, geothermal and biomethane is expected to increase and subsidies for harmful fossil fuels to decrease. the commission must assess whether the use of renewable sources in the eu can ensure sufficient energy production and whether there are additional supply possibilities. for example, in some member states the renewable energy generation network is not being fully exploited, consumers need to be empowered to save on their electricity bills, international cooperation needs to be increased and investment in innovation needs to be increased. the report does not take account of the fact that the european renewable energy policy has proved to be a failure, and i therefore vote against.
in writing. − i appreciate the realistic approach that emerges from the report and that seems to point towards a change of course on the european strategy for the promotion of renewable energies. there is a need to carefully assess the costs and benefits associated with introducing a binding european target for 2030. i think it would be more useful to give an indicative target to show the way forward. from a strictly economic point of view, it should not be forgotten that incentive schemes for renewable energy have been one of the main factors in the increase in energy prices in europe. i think it is therefore necessary to apply a criterion of economic and technical efficiency and to provide that the incentives for renewable sources for the period after 2020 are more market-oriented and limited in time. in other words, incentive schemes need to be harmonised at european level. finally, adequate support for research and development to enable 'technological leaps' is essential for the market uptake of new renewable sources, as is the harmonisation and strengthening of measures to facilitate the complex process of authorising and building renewable energy plants. the commission has also proposed that the community should develop cooperation with third countries with high solar, wind and water resources.
in writing. the market for renewable energy is a sector in strong growth with ample scope for development. this means that in real and market terms, the eu will have important opportunities for new investment and job creation, while safeguarding the environment and the territory. it is clear that in the context of the european single market, new methods of application must be considered in order to give greater impetus to this important economic sector. this is achieved by promoting renewable energy, investing more in research, making supply more competitive and providing the greatest possible protection for consumers. i believe that by working on these basic points, the renewable energy market can be one of the economic levers on which to restart the competitiveness of the european system.
in writing. - today we were asked to comment on the so-called 'no regrets' options for renewable energy sources identified by the european commission. together with energy efficiency measures and flexible and intelligent infrastructure, we are confident that these sources can represent an increasing share of europe's energy supply in the future. we believe that renewable energy will help tackle climate change and strengthen europe's energy independence, as well as having a positive impact on the environment in terms of reducing pollution and waste generation. we believe that it is essential to pursue this project and that it is necessary to emphasize the need for a cost-effective increase in the share of renewable energy sources, bearing in mind that they are an important growth engine for european competitiveness, as they offer enormous potential in terms of job creation and, moreover, make an important contribution to the development of new industries and export markets. we also believe that it is necessary to identify infrastructure solutions other than those which exist and which are developed exclusively on the basis of conventional energy sources. this is because we firmly believe that the greatest beneficiaries of the completion of the internal energy market will be consumers themselves.
in writing. - promoting the development of renewable energy sources must certainly be a primary objective for the european union, but this does not mean that heavy economic constraints should be imposed. renewable energy is attractive to the market today thanks to large public incentives and subsidies, i.e. thanks to a collective effort of taxpayers: i am not saying that this is wrong, especially if it can have positive repercussions in terms of energy saving and environmental protection. however, a careful analysis of the cost-benefit ratio should be carried out in order to find the right balance, which is above all sustainable in the long term. fortunately, an amendment to artificially and compulsorily increase the amount of renewables in the eu's energy mix by 2030 was rejected by this house today: i think that we cannot, in fact, place such a heavy bet on an area which has yet to be fully realised and in which continuous and thorough research is needed. i do not want europe to lose this important bet, but it must be managed realistically and pragmatically, without unnecessary leaps forward into the void.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the current challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the european internal energy market. the share of renewable energy sources in the european energy mix is increasing. they make a significant contribution to a secure, independent, diversified and low-emission energy supply in europe, a priority of european energy policy. however, the potential of renewable energy sources in terms of energy supply is still not fully exploited and the eu still depends on energy imports for more than half of its final energy consumption. it is therefore necessary to set targets and targets for 2050 to ensure a credible and sustainable future for renewable energy in the eu.
in writing. - we need higher standards when it comes to risk management. i am convinced that the rules we are now adopting can become a model for the rest of the world. the rules laid down in the new directive on the safety of oil and gas drilling operations will oblige companies to prove their ability to cover potential damage arising from their activities and to report on possible hazards and solutions before operations can begin. i believe that all operators should ensure that they have access to sufficient physical, human and financial resources to prevent major accidents and to limit their consequences. i therefore call on the member states to prepare external contingency plans, which must include all offshore drilling installations under their jurisdiction. these plans should specify the role and financial obligations of the drilling companies and the role of the competent authorities and emergency teams.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion on the report which facilitates the promotion of renewable resources in europe for the production and use of clean energy. after this vote, it will be up to europe to do more to facilitate sustainable public and private investment in energy infrastructure and i hope for increased investment in renewable and clean energy, while avoiding incentives for the creation of large wind farms and huge expanses of solar panels that have already ruined our landscapes and taken acres from our crops. i hope that we can find a way of reconciling our agriculture with clean energy production facilities and at the same time encourage the energy self-sufficiency of small and mediumsized farms. we have a task to diversify the union's sources of supply by 2020 using clean energy sources. overall, these measures approved by the european parliament will boost the competitiveness of european businesses by ensuring lower energy tariffs for businesses and consumers.
in writing. - mr reul's report seems to be aiming at a change of course on the european strategy for the promotion of renewable energies. the latter not only help to tackle climate change and strengthen europe's energy independence, but also offer major additional environmental benefits in terms of reducing air pollution, waste generation and water use. this requires greater investment in research and development in this area and the provision of infrastructure to ensure the progressive integration of renewable energy sources into the european energy system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted with conviction for the report, but there is still great concern that the transition from formal statements and legal provisions to a real change in attitude and the definition of mechanisms for the substantial application of the rules very often involves the risk of undermining the provisions on women's rights and gender equality. this is the case in several balkan countries in the process of accession, although gender equality is considered to be one of the fundamental rights of the european union, although, incidentally, much remains to be done in many member states as well. the commission, the council and parliament must therefore pay close attention to the real impact of the changes made by these states in their legislation and in their actual policies throughout the process leading to their accession. the number of women in political, public and business life in the balkan countries is still too low, and the knowledge and awareness of the public as a whole about the equality measures introduced or to be introduced in national legislation, the opportunities and rights that may flow from them, and the rights that must be guaranteed and exercised by women is poor. the balkan states must therefore make a greater effort, a tangible effort, in this important task.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on women's rights in the balkan countries in the process of accession because in these countries, as regards gender equality, many of the laws required for access to europe have been adopted, but these laws have not always been effectively implemented within the political, civil and social fabric. promoting gender equality is a key part of the enlargement process of the european union and these governments are required to take concrete measures to provide accountability in both the private and political sectors and, above all, to strengthen the position of women in society. another worrying issue to be addressed in the balkan countries in the process of joining the european union is the question of stopping the trafficking of human beings within the union itself, which is fuelled by 30% of its citizens from the balkan countries and which often leads to prostitution offences in which women are victims. i therefore reaffirm my vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report which aims to stress the western balkans’ obligations, during the process of implementing the acquis communautaire, in the area of gender equality. it is fundamental that women in these countries increase their role in society through active participation and representation in political, economic and social life at all levels. the first step to making this possible is to increase public awareness of women’s rights and gender equality measures. for these reasons with this report we call on the commission and the governments of accession countries to foster awareness through the media, public campaigns and education programmes in order to eliminate gender stereotypes and promote female role models and women’s active participation in all paths of life.
in writing. - with regard to this proposal, i believe that women's rights are one of the cornerstones to be secured within our civil societies, especially with a view to the possible accession of new countries to the european union. in 2013, we can no longer afford to hear, speak and discuss cases of violence against women or discrimination in any field of social life. it is necessary to make the legal framework known so that every citizen knows his rights and can defend himself before a competent authority against any violations or discrimination. i believe that macedonia with the new draft law against sexual harassment and mobbing at work, the progress made in the fight against violence and the inclusion in the parliament of the "women's club" where mps from different parties cooperate in promoting women's rights, has done a good job, although there is still a need for greater functioning and coordination by the government in order to make the best progress. i voted in favour of this resolution because the points in this proposal are an excellent basis for working towards greater and more comprehensive protection for women in the western balkan countries.
in writing. − despite the great effort made by the balkan countries to align their legislation with the eu acquis in the field of women's rights and gender equality, to date these rights do not appear to us to be sufficiently protected. we therefore believe that it is necessary to provide for specific mechanisms for the application of provisions on women's rights. for these rights to have meaning and be effective, it is essential that there is a competent authority to receive complaints and to be prepared to defend the honour of women in the name of justice. promoting gender equality is an essential step for the accession countries, as it is a fundamental and founding value of the european union, enshrined in the treaties. we therefore call on the balkan countries in the process of accession to take specific measures to align their legislation on gender equality with that of the european union, to cooperate with civil society, and to organise initiatives in the field of police and the judiciary. the ultimate aim is to make clear to these countries what is expected of them, by giving them concrete incentives to bring their policies, budget and institutional framework into line with the fundamental principles of the european union.
in writing. - the report on women's rights in the balkan countries applying for eu membership, i give my favourable opinion. despite the significant efforts made by some countries to protect women's rights, unfortunately there are still some barriers to overcome. more efforts are needed to strengthen gender protection laws, to increase women's participation in the political system of their countries, to encourage authorities to increase support for internal debates and to strengthen the tools that allow women to denounce discrimination that still occurs in the labour market, in access to credit and, above all, in domestic abuse. in some countries, domestic violence has not yet been recognised as a criminal offence. women also play a very important role in stabilising and resolving conflicts. the protection of their rights must therefore be a priority to be placed at the centre of the negotiations with the candidate countries and with the potential candidate countries of the balkans.
in writing. − despite the great commitment of the balkan countries in their process of accession to the european union, much remains to be done in the field of women's rights and gender equality. the last report of the femm committee on this subject, dated 2008, highlighted gaps and very often unsatisfactory results. therefore, on the basis that promoting gender equality is a key part of the enlargement process, it is essential that these countries work to strengthen the concept of equal opportunities in society and pay greater attention to the protection of women, especially those exposed to discrimination.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the latest reporters without borders press freedom ranking, italy is in 57th place out of 179 countries, up only four places from the previous year. sixteen eu member states are among the top 30. this result is affected by italian defamation laws and the repeated so-called "babble" bills introduced in recent years by right-wing conservative forces. italy suffers from a very strong concentration in the television sector, where there is a substantial duopoly, but also in the wider publishing sector, which undermines pluralism and cultural diversity and leads to uniformity of content; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. in this context, the role of the european institutions is crucial in ensuring that the european charter for freedom of the press and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union are not only respected but also implemented so that those countries which are lagging behind in terms of freedom of information and pluralism make substantial progress. the commission should present a legislative initiative in this area to set minimum requirements for member states.
in writing. − freedom of the media in europe is a cornerstone of the values enshrined in the treaties. an autonomous and strong public sphere, based on independent and plural media, constitutes the essential environment for the freedoms of civil society. for this reason this report reiterates that minimum essential standards should be defined in order to guarantee and promote freedom of information and a suitable level of media pluralism and independent media governance. member states and the eu must make sure that legally binding procedures are in place for the appointment of public media heads, management boards, media councils and regulatory bodies to ensure integrity, as well as maximum consensus in terms of representing the entire political and social spectrum. i also believe that it is important to stress the need for appropriate funding for public service media in order to guarantee their political and economic independence.
in writing. - i did not support mr weber's report on the 'eu charter: setting standards for media freedom throughout the eu' because i do not agree with the demand that the offence of defamation be decriminalised.
in writing. the report calls on eu member states to respect freedom of expression for both traditional and newer media - including social networks. the commission is also proposing to monitor legislation in this area, the independence of the editors, access to the media and the presentation of a commission study on the precarious working conditions of journalists. however, since the aim is to introduce decriminalisation of the crime of defamation in all member states, i am voting against it.
in writing. - today we have been asked to comment on the formulation of new standards for media freedom in europe. member states are invited to protect, promote and guarantee freedom of expression and information and pluralism in all media. we consider a pluralistic information landscape to be crucial for a functioning democratic system, and we hope that the working conditions of professionals in this sector, who are often working in precarious conditions today, will be improved. we believe that the scope of the audiovisual media services directive should be extended to establish minimum standards for the protection of the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information and media pluralism. we also call on the member states and the whole of the european union to support investigative journalism for its democratic function and its capacity to detect crime. finally, we are convinced that editorial statutes or "codes of conduct" for publishers and journalists are crucial to the independence of the industry, as they prevent owners, governments or others from interfering with the content of the information.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur on most of the points put forward and have therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − media freedom and pluralism must be monitored in all member states and parliament must safeguard the independence of journalists from internal pressures from publishers or owners and from external pressures from political or economic lobbies. in this regard, member states are invited to guarantee, protect and promote the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information, as well as the freedom and pluralism of the media. it is also necessary that member states ensure the independence of journalists and publishers by means of appropriate legal and social safeguards, taking care to also provide for the interference of owners, shareholders and governments. finally, rules on media ownership transparency, concentration and conflicts of interest should be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague on the introduction of common eu-wide media freedom rules because i believe that guaranteeing the independence and pluralism of the media is a priority and is fundamental to the development of democracy. these elements have already proved their importance in the process of democratization in some countries and in the promotion of human rights. i believe that it is necessary for countries wishing to join the eu to comply with the union's acquis, recalling that media freedom and pluralism are one of the eligibility criteria. the member states will also have to set an example for countries outside the union. the european court of human rights, with reference to the convention for the protection of human rights, also recalled the obligation of the member states to guarantee freedom and pluralism of the media. these media must ensure free but objective information, and i believe it is necessary to preserve the provision of adequate funding to the media of the national public service, to ensure their educational, cultural and democratic role, as well as their independence from politics.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on an agenda for adequate, secure and sustainable pensions because i believe that we need to close the gender gap and combat gender discrimination and thus promote a better work-life balance, especially for women. women often interrupt their careers to take on family tasks, and are more likely than men to take up part-time or even low-paid work, earning on average 16% less than men. women also receive a lower pension and are therefore more at risk of poverty and social exclusion than men. some pension systems also exacerbate gender imbalances, especially for women living alone, thus increasing their vulnerability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we think of adequate, secure and sustainable pensions for women when the pay gap between men and women is almost 17%? and then there are family responsibilities, the inadequacy of structures for reconciling work and family life, which forces women to continually interrupt their careers and often cannot work full time. at retirement, lower earnings add to the discontinuity of employment and career and of course there will be lower pensions. that is why in old age women are at a very high risk, much higher than men, of being in poverty. what about young people? in europe, one in four young people is unemployed, and in some member states this figure is over 50%.
in writing. − the objective of any pension system must be to ensure a sufficient standard of living for each pensioner. to achieve this, the single most important measure to work on is to significantly increase the number of taxpayers, i.e. the number of people in work, rather than discussing how to reshape pension systems in view of higher life expectancies or the different age structure of society. giving more jobs to young people is the first key to ensuring balanced pension systems and all the most important aspects of our society. particular attention should be paid to the position of women in the labour market and their retirement prospects. women suffer from greater discontinuity in employment and career, most often because of their role as mothers and wives within families. they often work part-time and are scandalously less paid than men, with a difference of almost 17%. this puts them at risk of poor pensions and thus of an old age of greater economic difficulties, if not even of poverty and social exclusion. a joint effort by the union to find broad and shared solutions would be desirable and positive.
in writing. − pension systems are under pressure in all eu countries: the euro area governments adopt austerity measures to comply with the stability and growth pact or are forced to take action to reduce high deficits. in europe, the working population is shrinking, birth rates are falling, young people are studying longer and entering the labour market later. by 2020, the proportion of the total population aged 65 and over will have risen from 16% in 2010 to 19.1%. the so-called 'intergenerational solidarity' by which young people in employment pay for pensions can no longer be guaranteed. in many member states, reforms aimed at pension sustainability have already been initiated, but more needs to be done to address the effects of population ageing. in particular, i believe that in the light of the high mobility of workers on the market, it is important to develop minimum rules on the acquisition and maintenance of the value of pension rights acquired when working experience is gained in different countries. in addition, member states should provide a clear pension framework to citizens so that they can have the information at their disposal on the basis of which to take the necessary action for the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on adequate, sustainable and secure pensions, together with my colleagues from the ppe group, because i believe that it is precisely in this situation of stagnation of the euro area economies, such as italy's, that measures are necessary to ensure the efficiency of the pension system. it is obvious that systems are under severe pressure throughout europe, especially where, as in italy, economic contingency has forced governments to take drastic measures to reduce public deficits. at the same time, the average age of the population continues to rise, life expectancy and the number of pensioners are increasing, while the share of the working population is falling sharply. we are at a point where the solidarity between generations, on the basis of which young people in employment pay for pensions, is seriously threatened. this requires a european agenda on pensions, leading to a series of reforms: the responsibility and competence of individual member states must remain unchanged, but it is possible to agree on shared systems which are adequate and sustainable and which help to strengthen free movement in the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important own-initiative report by parliament because the issue of pensions is as fundamental as that of better employment. the pension systems of all countries are under severe pressure, no doubt due to the austerity measures implemented at national level to comply with the stability pact. but not only that. society is changing and we have to deal with an ageing population and, at the same time, with increasing life expectancy. i agree with the need to introduce reforms through non-binding measures. we need to build systems that are adequate, safe and sustainable, but also help to strengthen mobility and free movement in the labour market, and provide solutions for the present and the future. whatever system is chosen, we must increase the number of people in work and have them set aside funds and save for old age. while respecting the division of competence between the union and the states, the union can do much in this field, including by using legislation if necessary.
in writing. the report follows closely the commission's white paper on pensions. the reforms of the pension system which we see in europe today - including italy - are the result of this approach. the first point to be discussed concerns the extension of the retirement age, which not only forces older people to work more, but also creates jobs for young people (150,000 fewer jobs for the young in our country). the second is the move from a public to a private pension system, which would entail an increase in administrative charges, a worsening of the protection of workers who have not served continuously, and this despite the ineffectiveness of these measures in reducing the public debt. for these reasons i am voting against the report.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done on this report. the statistics we have show that the european population is characterized by a high rate of over 55 (about 1/3 of the population). it follows, therefore, that without adequate coordination at european level, the sustainability of public pension schemes could be seriously called into question. as is well known, the provision of pensions is a matter for the member states, but in a time of crisis such as the present one, i believe that priority should be given to the long-term stability and sustainability of national pension systems. i believe that action is needed to ensure adequate support for europe's pensioners, while not forgetting that a major contribution can be made by the creation of new jobs. the current pension system must therefore be adapted to the expectations of a sustainable welfare system and a labour market that has seen its rules and dimensions change.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report on a european agenda for adequate, secure and sustainable pensions for both young and old. we believe that it is an excellent instrument for initiating discussion and launching reforms by means of non-binding measures or even legislative instruments, where necessary. in practical terms, while recognising the absolute control of the member states and the social partners in this context, it is necessary to build adequate and sustainable systems that help to strengthen mobility and free movement in the labour market, with the ultimate aim of providing solutions for the future. furthermore, as the europe 2020 strategy explicitly refers to the need to ensure adequate pensions, we encourage all eu member states to define a clear pension framework, which can provide citizens with comprehensive information about the level of pension that each worker can expect. many member states have already implemented reforms aimed at pension sustainability, but new solutions are needed to address the problem of an ageing population. whatever system is chosen, we believe it is essential to increase the number of people in work and to educate them to save and save for their retirement.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on an agenda for adequate, sustainable and secure pensions. all member states are experiencing an ageing population, life expectancy is increasing across europe and the number of pensioners living longer and in better health is increasing. as a result of the severe crisis, pension systems are under severe pressure in all eu countries. in addition, young people are entering the labour market later and later, and the solidarity between generations, which is the basis for young people in work to pay for pensions, is being eroded. the european agenda on adequate, secure and sustainable pensions is a necessary tool to initiate a discussion and subsequently launch reforms aimed at the establishment of secure pension systems that also contribute to strengthening mobility and free movement in the labour market.
in writing. − more needs to be done to address the effects of population ageing by increasing the number of people in work, facilitating equal opportunities and offering greater mobility by pension systems. i voted in favour of the proposal, agreeing that we must build systems which are adequate, safe and sustainable, but which also help to strengthen mobility and free movement in the labour market, and which provide solutions for the present and the future.
in writing. - today, one third of the population of the european union is over 55. the sustainability of pension schemes is threatened by ageing populations and public finance difficulties. the economic crisis and the challenge of ageing populations have revealed the vulnerability of funded supplementary pension schemes and public pension schemes and i therefore call on the member states to introduce or maintain diversified pension systems, giving priority to safeguarding public pensions. the provision of pensions is a matter for the member states, but coordination at eu level is necessary, particularly in the context of stability and programme reforms. i also stress the need for people working abroad to be able to acquire and retain pension rights throughout the eu.
in writing. − this vote must highlight the importance of how the economic crisis and the challenge of population ageing have revealed the vulnerability of supplementary and public pension schemes. member states will have to introduce diversified pension systems as soon as possible, giving priority to safeguarding public pensions, which ensure a decent standard of living for all.
in writing. - i am strongly opposed to this agenda which identifies pensioners as the ones responsible for the economic crisis because they 'cost too much'. the eu has proved incapable of protecting its citizens from unemployment and economic decline by failing to promote a credible and concrete growth plan. the idea of shifting the costs of the crisis onto the shoulders of citizens and pensioners by attacking the rights they have acquired is unacceptable. in addition, amendments have been accepted, to which i have always voted against, which propose to cut pensions further by linking them to the ratio of unemployed to employed, thus impoverishing pensioners living in countries where unemployment is higher and attacking the right to live the last phase of life with serenity and dignity. the eu should have intervened on the ecb by changing its operating rules, which do not allow direct financing of states, companies and households, but only banks, at a ridiculous interest rate of 0.50%. i wonder why the banks should make exorbitant sums of money on the money the ecb lends them. why not favour businesses and households instead? why not, as the united states and japan have done, put new money into circulation?
in writing. − life expectancy is increasing in europe and the increase in life expectancy inevitably leads to an increase in the number of pensioners. the european states are having difficulty in guaranteeing pensions above the poverty line and more efforts are needed to find adequate solutions, given that solidarity between the generations, whereby young people in work pay for current pensions, is not being achieved today. i voted in favour of the report because europe, while recognising the responsibilities of the member states in this area, will have to try to build systems that provide guarantees, reinforcing the sustainability of pension costs through reforms that set common guidelines, favouring solutions for both the present and the future. in order to ensure pension fund cover, europe will need to increase its provisioning and can do so by committing to policies that facilitate the entry of young people into the world of work and by raising the retirement age so that in the future many pensioners, especially women, do not live below the poverty line. all member states will also have to make their pension systems clear, including in terms of information.
the agenda for joint debate includes:- the report by marianne thyssen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation conferring specific tasks on the ecb concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions (com (2012) 0511 - 2012/0242 (cns)) (a7-0392/2012), and- the report by sven giegold, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 establishing a european supervisory authority (european banking authority) as regards the interaction of that regulation with regulation (eu) no .../... conferring specific tasks on the european central bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions (com (2012) 0512 - 2012/0242 (cns)) (com (2012) 0528 - 2012/0244 (cod)) (a7-0394/2012).
i would like to thank all my colleagues, in particular the rapporteur and the rapporteur, and commissioner barnier, because they have done a really good job and we are giving a decisive and long-awaited answer in this election. on the other hand, i do not have to tell you, who know it well, what a disastrous situation the european banking system is in. the latest example is the case of cyprus, where the main banks have come to the brink of bankruptcy, threatening the stability of the entire eurozone. all this shows that there is a great urgency for effective and uniform supervision at european level, which does not give discounts to anyone and does not treat stepchildren and stepchildren differently. the single supervision gives guarantees to our savers and secures their deposits. there is another reason why i am very positive about the work that has been done. the european central bank is now out of the strange limbo in which it finds itself. the ecb, as we know, is a very great power, but it cannot have a delegation in empty. it cannot become a free zone, free from substantial forms of democratic control. this regulation contains important achievements which for the first time place the european central bank under the effective control of parliament. it will also put an end to the scandalous conflicts of interest between supervised and supervised persons, which have contaminated and infected the banking system over the past decades. an ethics committee will be set up and will introduce rules to deal with conflicts of interest, but in my view the most important element is the procedure for appointing the chairman and vice-chairman of the supervisory board, two positions for which parliament's full approval will be required. the president will also be chosen by an open selection procedure over which parliament will exercise its political control. the european parliament, our house, the house of the european people, will for the first time have a veto power over the appointment of the european central bank. the cult, the myth, the dogma of the ecb's independence and the worldwide anomaly that the ecb is considered an undemocratic institution are thus over. now, commissioner barnier, you know how much i respect you, let us move on to the other two pillars of banking union. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that what we have decided is in full accordance with the spirit and the dictates of the treaties. it is no coincidence that we have listened to the opinions of legal services and that the provisions contained in the regulation are fully consistent with the treaty. so we have to move in that direction.
thank you, mr. martin.
would you like to continue your speech, mr. martin?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i greet commissioner barnier and take this opportunity to inform him that an italian bathing-house owner has climbed up to the dome of st peter's in rome, where he has been since last night, to defend his job and his business, which is seriously threatened by the current bolkestein directive. the european banks have now reached a size that is difficult to control, and the crisis of one of them can bring the whole financial market and the economy of a country to the brink of collapse; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i remain, however, sceptical of all the supervisory mechanisms which have failed in recent years, both at national and european level. in recent months in italy we have had the famous case of the monte dei paschi bank. i do not know whether a european supervisory mechanism would have been more effective, but it was certainly impossible to do worse. at that time, mario draghi was at the bank of italy and he did nothing, he was unable to do anything. i hope that this will not happen again with the new role of the ecb, because then the consequences will be felt throughout europe. i wonder what the usefulness and effectiveness of the new european banking authority will be, since it has so far been of little use. it was just another useless european agency, and perhaps it makes sense to bring it under the ecb. i believe that a large part of the banking problems stem from a mistake which i have already pointed out many times in this house, namely the unfortunate abolition of the banking segregation as provided for by the american glass-steagall act. just last week, a bill was introduced in the united states senate to reinstate glass-steagall, as has already happened in the house of representatives. europe should follow this path because today we are talking about banking unity and banking union, but perhaps a banking separation would bring much more benefits.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have on several occasions argued that the eurozone should have a coherent and clear economic policy and should make progress in integrating spending and budgetary policies. the solution cannot be to build a kind of 'united states of the euro', but to create a mechanism to stop uncertainty and instability, a mechanism which will pool resources through the adoption of common bonds or through collective supervision measures which are much stricter than those currently in force on financial and budgetary policies. we must guarantee the spending commitments of individual states, protect european savers in particular from the failure of banks and create a system which enables consumers to take the necessary steps to protect themselves. we are in favour of the ecb being given responsibility for banking supervision in the euro area. it is intended to provide advice to national supervisory authorities and to those of those member states which, although not sharing the euro, are essential and important parts of the single market. we must encourage the integration of banks under single supervision without burdening the budgets of states in difficulty, and we must ensure that citizens, the savers who have supported the credit systems with their savings, have guarantees, and we must prevent excessive mergers of banking institutions and improve the definition between savings and investment banks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with great intellectual honesty i would like to thank mr thyssen and mr giegold for the excellent work they have done. they have done important work for the whole of europe. many colleagues spoke only of the critical points. there is no perfect law and i must say that this directive is a very important strategy for europe. the banking union - we have said this many times - is the single supervisory mechanism and is an important part of the construction of a genuine economic and monetary union, which will then have to be accompanied by a budgetary union and an economic union. for those who believe in europe, this is a very important road. the banking union with a single ecb supervisor will play a preventive role in preventing bank failures and preventing the instability of a single credit institution from spreading to the entire banking system, thus averting the damaging effects on the real economy that we have already had since 2008. the lack of transparency in the banking sector and especially the lack of supervision by some countries have made the banking sector easily vulnerable to contagion, which then spread even to the most stable countries. the crisis we are trying to get out of is a striking example of the fact that a failure in the banking sector has serious repercussions on the real economy of a country, which also have a negative effect on our internal market. the banking union is a cornerstone of the european union, there is no more time to delay some of the reforms needed to build a real economic and monetary union, now is the time to revive the european economy with new and better jobs, with an integrated internal market and greater competitiveness and the banking union is the right step in that direction. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism is an important step towards building the banking union. the banking union is important because reducing the risk of the credit system is a fundamental condition for overcoming the private and sovereign debt imbalance which has made the current crisis so dramatic and has had such a heavy impact on citizens and businesses, who were first called upon to bear the cost of bank bailouts and still bear an unsustainable cost of money in many countries. however, for the banking union, single supervision is a necessary but not sufficient condition without a single resolution mechanism with adequate resources and without an effective deposit guarantee mechanism. in this respect, i think that the recent statements by minister scheuble on the need for a revision of the treaties in order to proceed with the single resolution mechanism are a pretext and recall similar objections to single supervision which have subsequently proved to be unfounded or at least surmountable. the agreement reached on single supervision is a good compromise, the differentiation introduced between credit institutions makes it possible to safeguard the specificity of banking systems and the principle of subsidiarity without affecting the exclusive competence and the role of the ecb and the ssm as the decision-maker of last resort. this differentiation can also provide the basis for the implementation of a separation of commercial and investment banking activities which we consider to be of great importance and which is another fundamental element of a true banking union and better regulation of financial markets. the role of the european parliament in appointing the monitoring committee of the ssm summit is also very positive, as well as being an important precedent. this role must now be consistently translated into an interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the ecb, which must ensure transparency and control commensurate with the importance of the new tasks assigned to the ecb and for which parliament will not make concessions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right that the harmonization of the various national deposit guarantee schemes and the preparation of a single set of rules on financial services will gradually reduce the unfair disparities which exist on the financial market today and which unfairly penalise the productive sectors of certain countries. i therefore share the call not only for a single corpus but also for its uniform application. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking sector is not left behind. the strong call for the safeguarding of these categories in article 8 must remain a constant in any reform we wish to implement. the citizens cannot be victims of the errors and frivolity of a system in which they are spectators, and this will have to be taken into account in every step we take. commissioner barnier, i have great confidence in you and great respect for you. when we talk about time, this is our weakness. does the realistic timetable that our excellent rapporteur has mentioned not seem to you to be full of obstacles and to be on a terrible slope? almost afraid to get there? and we've heard some colleagues express this fear. how long does the procedure required of that member state take? commissioner, what if they do not approve this procedure? what's going on? what's going on? this is the first of the three pillars that have been put in place in the banking union, the other two are missing, and this alone will perhaps create some problems. this banking union is one of the four pillars of the road map. let me end, mr president, with a quote from a great man of our land who was beatified a short time ago, who says that "in credit and finance we must have three fundamental aspects: morality, which is based on trust, distributive justice and general utility, because credit must be aimed at the public welfare, performing a social function".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to what i believe is the main issue before us. as you know, the objective of banking union has now been accepted, the difficulties have been considerable, but we have reached this point of purely political and cultural order. we are now at last at the beginning of the single surveillance and the path has been even more difficult. you know this, because you have been a protagonist and played a very important positive role. we must get to the subject of banking regulation just as quickly, or even more quickly than before. there are things that need to be done, we have talked about deposit guarantee, we have added the guarantee fund for restructuring, and i believe that to really get to union it is essential to do these things, but quickly. if it were to take too long, the instrument of supervision alone would be seen as a punitive instrument incapable of stimulating virtuous behaviour on the part of the banks. that's why i think we should all run together.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, my statement on this issue this evening will by necessity be brief. as you know, discussions within the world intellectual property organization (wipo) on how to provide better access to information, culture and communication for the visually impaired and persons with print disabilities have been underway since 2009. the focus of these discussions has been to expand the number of copyrighted works in accessible formats and improve access to them. in june last year the commission submitted to the council a recommendation requesting authorisation to open and conduct negotiations on behalf of the european union on an international agreement in the context of wipo. on 26 november 2012, the council issued negotiating directives to the commission and authorised it to participate in the negotiations on behalf of the union. the wipo general assembly decided on 18 december 2012 to convene a diplomatic conference in marrakesh on 17-28 june 2013. a draft text of an international instrument was recently circulated by the wipo secretariat as a basis for discussions at that conference. the commission will represent the eu at the marrakesh conference and will negotiate on its behalf in line with the negotiating directives which it has received from the council. it would clearly not be appropriate for me here to enter into a public discussion on the content of the mandate which has been given to the commission and which is internal to the eu. i am sure the commission, as negotiator, will keep parliament fully and immediately informed as the negotiations progress. i thank you for your attention, and i look forward to hearing the views of members this evening.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, dear lucinda, since i took up my duties as european commissioner three years ago, i have worked hard with you to draw up an international treaty to give visually impaired people the same opportunities as others to access books, wherever they live, in order to put an end once and for all to what is truly an unacceptable shortage, which hinders the access of a considerable number of citizens to knowledge and culture. in february 2012, right here, you will remember, when your resolution on this subject was voted by an extremely large majority, i personally committed myself to a binding treaty. since then i have had the opportunity to discuss this with mr lehne of the committee on legal affairs and with many of you, including mr berlinguer and mrs lichtenberger and others. today the commission is negotiating this treaty on behalf of the european union, as the presidency has just reminded us. our request for a council mandate in june 2012 resulted in an authorisation to negotiate in november 2012. we are keeping our promise and the commission is therefore, you can be sure, fully committed to this matter. i have repeatedly expressed my determination to see that we arrive at a strong and clear text which effectively guarantees strict equality of access to books, wherever people with a reading disability live, in particular. today, the european union, through the commission, is actively negotiating with its partners in the world intellectual property organization (wipo) to find the most effective solutions, which are of course mutually acceptable. the work has progressed rapidly; the extraordinary general assembly of december 2012 has called for a diplomatic conference in june, in a few weeks, to conclude these negotiations, we hope and we wish. a few weeks before the marrakesh conference opens, and despite a final negotiating session in april, there are still - i must say this in the clearest and most transparent way - a number of important questions that are still open. the commission's position is unambiguous. it is clear support for a targeted and effective treaty - and we are negotiating with this objective in mind in order to remove the barriers to access for the visually impaired to special and adapted book formats - a treaty that facilitates the cross-border distribution, export and import of these formats. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are close to finding an answer to these questions which are still outstanding. for example, the question of verifying the unavailability of the formats in question in a country or, again, the distribution methods. all negotiators must be mobilized. we must overcome these various difficulties if the marrakesh conference is to be a success, and we will do everything, because that is our objective, to make it a success. but as i have stressed on several occasions, in these negotiations the commission represents the position of the european union and its member states on the basis of the mandate given to it. the solutions we have to find cannot ignore the scope of this mandate and must be acceptable, i repeat, to the member states. of course, the european union is negotiating with the other wipo member countries. it is not in a position to determine on its own what the outcome of these negotiations will be, although it is resolutely committed - i repeat - to seeking an agreement to fully meet the legitimate needs of the visually impaired. we want an effective treaty which takes account of all the legitimate concerns, including those which you have expressed very strongly here in the european parliament. there is no question of imposing some bureaucratic requirement. i have had the opportunity to say this, to give this assurance to the member associations of the ebu (european blind union), which i thank - i am speaking of the associations - for their support and, at the same time, for their very active vigilance on this matter. ladies and gentlemen, the effectiveness of this treaty, its ability to respond effectively to the needs of the visually impaired, will of course also depend, i repeat, on the possibility of its being signed and ratified in a short time. that is why i call on everyone to take responsibility and why i thank you for this new debate, which is a reminder of the determination that is very important for the member states of the union, as well as your support, your vigilance and your own determination, which is in line with that of the european commission.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we are here to debate again a topic of great importance. the positive outcome of the negotiations on the treaty for visually impaired and blind people will finally open access to millions of books across the world. we are dealing with a fundamental right, not with charity. commissioner barnier, i remember and recognise your personal commitment more than a year ago here in this room. we are now taking the very last steps before an agreement. in marrakesh the commission and the member states must find a compromise to the deadlock we are now facing. two points are still open. excuse me if i go into detail. are you going to change the provision in the current text on the commercial availability requirement which is basically watering down the meaning of the treaty, which would be, paradoxically, even less ambitious than a memorandum of understanding? we must delete commercial availability. secondly, are you allowing for the possibility of sending a book to an individual rather than two organisations? remember the opportunities offered by current technology. let us come back to the core reason for the treaty. the current legal framework and the functioning of the market are not sufficient to provide a real solution to the book famine that the visually impaired still live with. our goal is to have a good and effective treaty for the benefit of blind and visually-impaired people. we will not just be unlocking a problem affecting millions of european citizens, we will also be showing our loyalty to our constitutive values – human dignity, culture, equality and freedom of access.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking commissioner barnier for his sensitivity to the subject and for keeping me informed. it is essential to ensure full accessibility of texts for the visually impaired and blind, who have also been shown by some surveys to be much more interested in reading than so-called normally gifted people. i believe that publishers and producers should meet the needs of these categories of people, if necessary, including through incentives to publish in dedicated special formats, overcoming the barriers of copyright and copyright regulations that still limit their full dissemination. europe and its member states must be the voice and the voice of the thousands of citizens who are demanding just one of their rights: the right to read, to know, to be informed and to be cultured, to be considered as we all are.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to stress the urgency and importance of this question, given the appointment mentioned by commissioner barnier for next june in marrakesh - the date and place at which the treaty we are discussing is to be signed. the commissioner also recalled that this house had expressed itself a short while ago by a large majority, with great sensitivity and foresight in dealing with such a delicate matter. the problem is that the knot in the proposed treaty has not yet been untied. the restriction on the circulation of publications, which prevents their use by the visually impaired and the blind, remains, however, anchored to the two themes repeatedly raised in the debate on the condition of the marketability and the obligation of the intermediation of associations. these are two central questions on which it is necessary to understand the commission's position. i very much appreciate the commitment of commissioner barnier who, in his very serious speech today, confirmed what he said a while ago in this house. but i say, while i share the need and the usefulness of signing a treaty to regulate this sector, that the type of treaty is not indifferent, not just any treaty. i, like other members, ask the commissioner what the mandate he has received from the council is on these two points and i add another point of question: what is the commission's position? where does the commission stand in the conflict between economic interests and fundamental rights?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard from the commissioner, but he certainly did not need our words, the expectations which have been raised about the marrakesh meeting in june are very high. the treaty is expected, but for it to be such a treaty it must contain rules to ensure the application and respect of the fundamental rights of the people to whom we are addressing ourselves, who in this case are blind people and who need appropriate instruments to guarantee their right of access to culture. for this to happen, the treaty must be extended, the scope for using the fundamental instruments, which in this case are books, must be extended. so we have to cancel the commercial availability hypothesis because it is a very restrictive hypothesis. we must remove the fact that only associations distribute it, because this too restricts the limits on access. we must be able to respond adequately to the expectations that have been created with standards that are appropriate.
substitute writer. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the stockholm programme adopted by the european council in 2010 sets out a series of objectives to be achieved by the end of the programme in 2014. the european parliament has twice taken important positions, with resolutions of 25 november 2009 and 23 november 2010, and then the commission presented an action plan for implementation. the stockholm programme is now halfway through its term and the committee on legal affairs and the committee on civil liberties and constitutional affairs have decided to assess the progress made so far in order to identify the steps still to be taken. i put a question to the commission and a question to the council, which is the reason for the oral question we have put: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the implementation of the directive. we have produced in recent years a huge, very large, outstanding european corpus of law which is moving towards the integration of rights and law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because we know that only a small part of the copious regulations produced reaches the citizens and this risks frustrating our efforts because it does not allow the citizens to enjoy them. we are producing an effort infinitely greater than its actual result in european society. so we would like to have in the assessment of this mid-term review answers from the commission and the council as to what are the reasons which have led to this result, which i consider to be impressive in terms of the production of legislation and largely insufficient in terms of its practical effects, and knowing the reasons or examining them together to see what measures can be taken, because the anxiety of the legislator is to produce rules, but the anxiety of the governor in the full sense of the term is to produce results in terms of the benefits of the rules themselves. this must affect our approach to this activity, particularly in europe where we are all legislators; the executive, which has a monopoly on legislative initiative, is also an integral part of production and can therefore contaminate the legislative body with its need for efficiency. that is why we are asking for all these data and therefore we are anxious to know more about why we have set up the stockholm programme and what results we must achieve.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too wonder what the point of our question is. it is intended to prepare an own-initiative report by the three committees which drafted this question, which operate under rule 51 of our rules of procedure. i would remind you that these three committees have already prepared together the resolution adopted by parliament on 25 november 2009 on the stockholm programme, when the treaty of lisbon had not yet entered into force. this was the first application of article 51 and the fact that three committees were involved shows the breadth and importance of the subject. the stockholm programme covers the entire third pillar of the european construction which the treaty of lisbon introduced as part of its main innovation, namely that of entrusting to the democratic sovereignty of the european parliament a part of the greatest assets for the peoples, namely freedom, security and justice. their unified space in europe is a fundamental objective in the integration process, as stated in the treaty of amsterdam. it is necessary to acknowledge that the commission has already reported on several occasions, both in plenary and in committee, on the progress made by the lisbon treaty, but now we are asking, in accordance with our previous resolution of november 2009, for a summary assessment by the commission of what has been achieved, what remains to be achieved, the difficulties encountered and the assumptions made to overcome them. we are now close to the 2014 european elections, which are taking place at a time of crisis, not only economic but also of confidence in europe. it is tragic to note that the popular participation in the european elections has been steadily declining in all the countries that founded the union, in those that have enriched it over time, in those that joined after the fall of the berlin wall. then we must react. despite this sad fact, despite the crisis, the next elections can be a moment of renewed momentum because finally after so long we will have to talk only about europe. until the last elections, the electoral debate was focused on internal politics, it was a kind of check on the policy of governments, but now it will have to be said whether 'europe yes' or 'europe no'. the results must therefore be shown to the citizens in a concrete and comprehensible way, and if freedom, justice and security are the greatest assets, precise and convincing information must be provided on this very point. i would like to ask three specific questions. the first: to what extent have the new decision-making tools and methods affected the achievement of the objectives set out in the stockholm programme? secondly: how does the commission intend to increase citizens' confidence and democracy by making citizens' requests effective and actionable under article 11 of the lisbon treaty on the citizens' initiative? thirdly: what are the commission's intentions with regard to the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the stockholm programme is an important strategy with concrete actions to achieve a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice serving the citizens. it was an action plan agreed in 2010 and it has a very ambitious agenda. the aim was to give the utmost protection to values such as respect for the person, human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity, seeking to put the citizen at the centre of his daily life. i think we can draw a fairly positive first balance sheet, i am referring, for example, to the directive on the european protection order, which is a legal instrument of protection that is absolutely cutting edge. i am referring to the directive on the rights, assistance and protection of victims of crime and i am also referring to the many measures for the protection of children in the european union, including the directive against abuse and child pornography online, for which i was rapporteur. of course, there is still a lot to be done and therefore an evaluation will be necessary and useful to measure all the difficulties encountered in the implementation plan, so that the necessary corrections can be made and a new phase and better and more consistent cooperation between the strategies of all the member states can be opened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the european union is reeling from the economic crisis, the most immediate response to all the citizens who are expressing their understandable uncertainty is to relaunch the process of political integration. the response to the weaknesses of the european union in the face of market aggression is to strengthen citizen participation. it is clear, however, that we cannot build political union unless we guarantee to the european citizen the possibility of feeling that he has equal rights and equal duties, unless we guarantee to every citizen an equal system of protection and, at the same time, if we do not offer adequate legal protection instruments that are available to all citizens. i am well aware of the work of the commission, i have had the opportunity to follow more or less directly the diligent efforts of commissioner reding and i was pleased to hear today the articulate, full and passionate speech of commissioner borg and i am convinced that everything i heard is on the table. the problem is that it has not yet been achieved and is far from being achieved. i am the chairman of the committee on petitions and i live the relationship with the citizens on a daily basis and i can say that i enjoy the advantage of being a privileged observer, because through the complaints of the citizens we monitor on a daily basis the state of implementation of union law and i believe that we are still very far from creating a common european area of freedom, justice and security. just to give you a few examples: on the rights side, we have binational couples who are faced with limitations on the exercise of parental rights because of strange nationalist systems that still persist; disabled people cannot live in the whole of the european union because there are still different regulations on barriers, transport and permits; graduates are not all the same; workers do not have equal rights and cannot transfer rights acquired in one country to another country; the forms of protection vary from one member state to another.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the feeling is that the stockholm programme, more than three years after its adoption, remains an instrument that has not been fully implemented. this was mentioned in the speeches by my colleagues, as well as in the first report by commissioner borg, who also indicated a number of elements in favour of starting with schengen, which is certainly a conquest of civilization that we also owe to a subsequent implementation of the stockholm programme. the european union is committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. justice is a right that must be realised in practice. as regards prisons and the fundamental right to serve a sentence, which is both a right and a duty, and which is at odds with the problem of overcrowding, we had considered the possibility of going to the member states where overcrowding is found to be the result of the presence of third country nationals or community nationals from other states, but nothing has been done. the financial perspective for the period 2014-2020 is crucial, mr commissioner and mr president. only with concrete resources can we think of a post-stockholm and therefore it is a political priority to return resources to the justice mff where there is - and i close, mr president - 16% less resources. that is where we must act decisively.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank the honourable members who have participated in this debate. it was an interesting debate and, since for ten years i was minister of the interior, i felt at home and comfortable in the debate because i understood the concerns of the members. of course, governments have to govern. they have the responsibility to govern; they also reflect public opinion. but directives have to be scrutinised and the commission does scrutinise what the member states do: how they implement the acquis and how they implement the schengen acquis. so let me return to what i said in my introductory address: schengen is an achievement, but this does not mean there are no problems. i refer to mr guerrero salom, who said that there are difficulties in going from eastern europe to the uk. of course, the uk is not in schengen; it is entitled not to become part of schengen because it is within its rights under the treaties and its discretion not to do so, so therefore there are border controls at the border with the untied kingdom. but i have heard of some complaints by citizens of the country i know best, from people not being allowed in unless they produce a passport, which is against the acquis even for the non-schengen countries. one has to be very careful that the schengen acquis is not abused – in other words that, stealthily behind the scenes, we are not dismantling what we have achieved by raising borders and by carrying out systematic checks and not the random checks required by the schengen acquis. however, the commission monitors this situation regularly and also issues reports on the implementation of the schengen acquis. i note that several members referred to the european arrest warrant – in different ways, of course: some said that it is being applied unjustly against citizens, others that it is not being applied enough. of course the very idea of the european address warrant is based on the presumption – the premise – that our rules relating to freedom and the rule of law are so similar – not identical but so similar – that we should introduce a simplified express way of extradition. this is the value added of the european arrest warrant. we have already had the council of europe’s european convention on extradition. this is now an improvement within the european union, on the basis that, if we trust our each other and each other’s systems to this extent, then, on the mere issuing of a european arrest warrant, we should deliver a person to the other country within the european union. i remember that, on the very day when the united kingdom had a big controversy on this european arrest warrant, the british police succeeded in getting back to the united kingdom a school teacher who had eloped with one of his students to france and was extradited expressly by means of the european arrest warrant. so all countries apply the european arrest warrant. like so many other things it can be abused both ways: either someone who is a fugitive of justice is not sent back – because he is a national of the member state, which is not one of the reasons why you should refuse this simplified form of extradition, or on the basis of some other procedural rule – or someone uses the european arrest warrant in a flippant way. of course these are the two extremes, but in most cases it is applied justly – it has made a difference and helped in the creation of this common area of freedom and justice. i admire ms mazzoni from italy on her commitment to make the european union accountable to citizens by taking care of citizens’ needs, and as chair of the committee on petitions she is of course in an excellent position to know what the main concerns of the european citizen are. but i think we have to judge the stockholm programme and our achievements in the area of freedom, security and justice with the european union by looking not at what we should be in a utopian sense but at where we started from. only four years ago i was a member of the council of justice and home affairs ministers where practically everything had to pass by unanimous vote. so each member state, whether it was germany or malta, had a veto on justice and home affairs issues. today, after the lisbon treaty, not only has this changed but there are two co-legislators of equal rank. i emphasise this point – of equal rank – so i admire the balanced approach of mr moraes saying that the commission is on the energetic side of things in the introduction of legislation. it is natural. i spent 16 years as a government minister, and it is natural for governments to be slightly more conservative than parliamentarians because they have direct responsibility to govern, which is not an easy thing to do in the current times – nor is it an easy thing to be a parliamentarian, because there are responsibilities inherent in occupying the office of a parliamentarian. but we face this in most directives. this is the compromise which stems from having what president barroso likes to call ‘a federation but a federation of sovereign states’. it is a contradiction in terms up to a certain point – how can it be a federation and at the same time have sovereign states? – but this is the reality: that we have not become a federation but at the same time we are much more than just an organisation of sovereign states moving towards a more perfect union. so in answer to ms mazzoni – whose energy i admire for pushing the agenda and asking the question: ‘do we really have a common area?’ – i would say that perhaps we have not reached the level we would like to attain, but i think great strides forward have been made and in a very concrete way. not in an academic way, but in a very concrete way – which does not mean of course that every now and again there are not troubles which arise or obstacles of a nationalist nature which arise as well and which we as the commission should tackle and, where necessary, also take immediate action. i appreciated the comments of those who question how much solidarity there is on the immigration issue. of course the countries at the periphery, particularly in the south, complain that not enough is being done with regard to the intra-european transfer of protected persons who enter the periphery, and that these countries on the periphery have an excessive burden with regard to the refugee and the asylum problem. solidarity is not something which can be imposed. as soon as it is imposed, it is not really solidarity, merely the application of a legal obligation. even though some would prefer to have an imposed system of burden-sharing, it is perhaps a contradiction in terms up to a certain point. even if there is a forced way of burden-sharing, it has to be agreed to by the member states themselves. i appreciate my colleague commissioner malmström’s difficulty in pushing forward solidarity while at the same time i know very well that she does not have the full support of the member states in this regard, as they do not consider – not all of them, at least – that this is necessarily a pan-european problem. there are several other points i would like to reply to, but in particular i would refer to mr zwiefka’s comments. i agree entirely with him that judicial training is crucial in order to ensure that the law is known and that it is implemented. the commission will continue to support actions to strengthen judicial training because we feel that, through this method of training, one can ensure that the laws agreed to in brussels and strasbourg do not become a dead letter. i have already replied to the questions raised concerning schengen. regarding mr ehrenhauser’s question, i would like to tell him that the commission proposed a new legal basis for europol, basically with two objectives: firstly to improve the functioning of europol – notably by equipping it to be more efficient in exchanging information between police authorities – and secondly in increasing the parliamentary oversight, in line with the lisbon treaty, of the actions of europol. we all know that through the intervention of parliament in several pieces of legislation, including in the area of freedom and justice, the original bill – the draft proposal – has been changed and compromises have been reached. so parliament should not ignore the council, nor should the council ignore parliament. the idea of the lisbon treaty is that, through these two co-legislators, one would find through synthesis what the proper legislation should be within the european union.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank you firstly for the opportunity to engage in this discussion, which has been a very useful and informative discussion on the stockholm programme. as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, the programme itself is extremely wide-ranging and very comprehensive in scope and covers a range of areas: justice, asylum, migration, internal security and external relations. as many members have pointed out, the stockholm programme and all the aspects and elements of it affect the lives of eu citizens in one way or another, given that it helps to define work in all aspects of justice and home affairs. i can certainly agree with my friend, commissioner borg, in that the benchmark has to be based on an assessment of where we have come from. of course we all aspire to utopia – to the optimum outcome – but in terms of assessing the programme and its multiannual, multi-faceted nature, it is fair to say that we have come a long way. i would like to address some of the issues which have been specifically raised by members: mr berlinguer, mr lópez aguilar and mr casini, have asked about the practical benefits, the impact and the results achieved by stockholm. that is obviously a long list when you think about it, but the results are evidenced by the extent of the body of legislation which has been brought forward in all the justice and home affairs areas – legislation which will guarantee (and i think this is our common goal) the security of eu citizens in every aspect of their lives. mr guerrero salom mentioned the need to focus on values. when we speak of values, european values are very much the focus and the core of the stockholm programme. ms wikström mentioned the importance of resettlement programmes and, as you are probably aware, a joint eu resettlement programme was adopted by both parliament and the council in march of last year, in order to ensure that there is a coordinated response to those who require protection. so progress is being made on this very important issue. mr kirkhope spoke about the challenge of unaccompanied minors and, of course, that is indeed a major cause for concern and demands attention. in may 2010 the commission presented an action plan for the 2010 to 2014 period, and implementation of that action plan was reported on last september with a view to ensuring that this challenge continues to be addressed effectively. mr papanikolaou spoke about the legislative procedures after the lisbon treaty. i believe the process has been greatly improved by the use of the codecision procedure; the commissioner has also emphasised that point. the full involvement of parliament enriches the process and keeps both the commission and council on our toes, which i think is the desired effect. so i consider it to be a great improvement, although i am sure there is still work to be done on relations and on cooperation between the three institutions. there is always room for improvement; that is nothing new and it is not unique to the field of justice and home affairs. other members asked about the information management strategy. the commission paper on the european information exchange model was published in december and is designed to take stock of how existing cross-border information exchange works today. the commission’s findings from that process are being examined carefully at the moment by council, and we will revert. mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra mentioned the directive on the confiscation and freezing of assets, and he lamented the lack of progress. i am pleased to say that the first trialogue with parliament is now scheduled for 28 may, following the recent vote by the libe committee, so there is progress, and i hope that you will see that we have worked very hard over the last number of months to try to ensure that we can progress that, and indeed other aspects of the stockholm programme, and we are doing so. the programme itself ensures that issues that are central to the further development and ongoing protection of the area of freedom and justice are constantly and consistently within our sphere of attention, and i think that really is the benefit of the stockholm programme: keeping it on the agenda and keeping us focussed on the improvements and the reforms that need to take place. it has certainly ensured continuity through and across various presidencies of the european union. there is a clear work programme, which we cooperate on with parliament and the commission from one presidency to another. i think this consistency of approach is hugely beneficial. the area of freedom, security and justice, which we have helped define and which we have all worked so hard to achieve and indeed to protect, has benefited greatly from the certainty of the issues that are contained within the programme. i can assure you, in conclusion, that for the remaining duration of the irish presidency, we will continue to work very hard to make progress on areas of importance within the stockholm programme. i look forward to continued collaboration between our institutions to agree measures in a timely fashion in order to help to guarantee what we contribute to, a european union which i believe our citizens deserve. as we begin to draw towards the end of the irish presidency, the benefits of having a programme such as the stockholm programme are clear, because, while we will work up to the eleventh hour in our presidency, we will be handing over to the lithuanian presidency, which, of course, will take up the cudgel and will work to continue and to build on the momentum that we have managed to achieve through your cooperation here in parliament over the last number of months. i wish to thank you for that. thank you, mr president, for the opportunity to participate in this debate, and thank you, commissioner, also.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is very satisfied that its succession regulation was adopted last year and is now part of the european union rule book. separate national rules on succession created a legal maze of red tape and costs through which citizens making use of the right to move had to navigate – and pay. having a framework for european cooperation on succession is a great achievement and a tangible concrete benefit to the life of citizens, as the regulation simplifies processes and brings legal security to citizens. this law is just one of the many examples of how the european union is working to resolve everyday legal problems and save money for europeans. obviously the regulation, like any new legislation that builds bridges between very different national legal systems, can raise questions of interpretation and implementation in the early days of its application. it is to minimise any such possible questions that the commission has for some years been sponsoring projects that would help citizens to find their way in this matter. this is the case with (and i shall give examples) the interconnection of registers of wills in the member states so as to facilitate the finding of wills across europe. one of the very first questions upon the death of a person is whether that person planned his or her succession or not. finding the will is a crucial element in the start of any succession proceeding. the organisation of a transparent exchange of information is another project on national succession laws which is easy to understand for citizens. such information is put online on a website called successions in europe. in addition, since the adoption of the regulation, the commission has put a lot of effort into ensuring the smooth application of the regulation. for instance, last year we awarded eur 1 million for an action grant to the council of the notariats of the european union, and thanks to this two-year project, 14 training courses are taking place to provide solid training to over 2 000 european notaries. we are also working on a standard form for the european certificate of succession, and the goal is to adopt the implementing regulation by the end of 2013. the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters, the so-called ejn, has started to prepare the publication of information on national legislations and procedures on the e-justice portal, and this will benefit citizens and their legal representatives. we are also launching a study to examine the need for a legal instrument on electronic registers of wills and of european certificates of succession at national level and ensuring the interoperability of such registers between member states. the succession regulation does not concern taxation. the way in which inheritance tax or its equivalent is assessed and calculated across the european union is very different. in certain situations the heirs only receive a very small part of their inheritance after it has been doubly or triply taxed by several member states. in extreme cases the total value of a cross-border inherited asset might even have to be paid in tax. this is because several member states may claim taxing rights on the same inheritance or tax foreign inheritance more heavily... (the president interrupted the speaker).
member of the commission. − mr president, in extreme cases the total value of a cross-border inherited asset might even have to be paid in tax. this is because several member states may claim taxing rights on the same inheritance or may tax foreign inheritances more heavily than local inheritances. as a result, citizens may be forced to sell inherited assets just to cover the taxes, and small businesses may face transfer difficulties on the death of their owners. inheritance tax can therefore give rise to obstacles that deter europeans from exercising their rights across borders within the european union. discriminatory taxation can also become an artificial disincentive to further investment across the single market in otherwise viable businesses. because of the fear of leaving huge inheritance tax and legal bills for their family members, business owners may consider investment-reducing alternatives such as liquidation, down-sizing or retirement from their cross-border investments. this is because they may not see the value in maintaining such highly taxable investments. it was to tackle these problems that, on 15 december 2011, the commission adopted a recommendation on how member states could eliminate double taxation of inheritances. on the same occasion the commission provided guidance to the member states on how to ensure that cross-border inheritance tax rules do not involve discrimination. the objective is very simple: to take action to tackle cross-border inheritance tax obstacles across the european union and resolve cases of double taxation. the aim is to ensure that the overall level of tax on a given inheritance is not higher than the level that would apply if only one member state had tax jurisdiction over the inheritance. the recommendation calls on member states to grant tax relief when applying inheritance taxes and to improve the cooperation of tax authorities to assist taxpayers subject to double taxation. the commission will report on the state of play of member states’ provisions for relief for double taxation of inheritances next year. if the report demonstrates that cross-border inheritance tax problems persist, the commission will consider all the different options, including the need to take appropriate legislative action to eliminate those obstacles. finally, in the meantime, the commission would like to use today’s debate to call on the member states to step up their cooperation and put the commission recommendation in place.
i think that the succession regulation is one of the most beautiful things this parliament has done. the subject may seem remote and hostile, but it is one which has touched the lives of citizens as european citizens. there are 450,000 cases a year where families are faced with an international succession and 120 billion euros that move. the numbers are important and the citizens who have relations with several member states are also an important issue. we've established the law applicable to this case. why is the discussion which we have called for and to which the commissioner has begun to respond important? because if you don't address the double taxation problem, the tax problem, that can seriously undermine the effectiveness of that law. we are therefore also moving in the direction of what we have just discussed in connection with stockholm, namely that the process of creating a european area must go step by step by checking what the bottlenecks and bottlenecks are and what the next action must be, because what is produced as a norm becomes everyday life. i would therefore like to recommend even more strongly that double taxation be overcome, that the 2011 recommendation be implemented effectively and substantially and that this law then become a reality, to affect the practical lives of citizens. let me make a final remark with tadeusz zwiefka, cecilia wikström, evelyn regner, who are my colleagues on the juri committee. as you can see, mr president, we do not like publicity and newspapers talking about our work, because the lawyer is a bit of a shadow and is a strange operative or european parliamentarian. yet we have put a great passion into this and today this passion has also been very rewarding.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by saying very clearly that the commission is committed to having the existing regulation reformed and improved. i think the commission’s proposal makes this regulation compatible with the lisbon treaty and the european union charter. i would like to remind everyone that, in order to have an agreement, it is of course important that the two co-legislators negotiate and agree. i would also like to remind this chamber that an attempt by the danish presidency to reach a compromise agreement did not succeed. a majority of member states largely shares the commission’s view and did not support parliament’s amendments. the cypriot presidency explored the possibility of finding common ground but concluded that the conditions for a compromise were not met. the current irish presidency has not, as far as i know, taken any further initiatives. but that is in the past. i think we have to look to the future, and i believe that the commission can commit to raising the matter with the upcoming lithuanian presidency in order to have the matter revisited by the council and to organise the necessary trialogues for a successful negotiation.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think my appeal to mr cashman is to look ahead. there is a commitment on the part of the commission to raise this matter with the lithuanian presidency. the commission has already stated its position with regard to parliament’s amendments in its communication on the action taken on opinions and resolutions adopted by parliament at the part-session of december 2011. but i repeat: let us look forward. we will raise this matter with the lithuanian presidency, and i am convinced that the necessary trialogues can start again.
the agenda includes the report by antonio lópez-istúriz white and antonyia parvanova, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters (com ((2011) 0276 - c7-0128/2011 - 2011/0130 (cod)) (a7-0126/2013).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs parvanova, and the rapporteur, mr lópez, on the excellent work they have done in a complex legislative procedure involving two parliamentary committees. the proposal will complete, together with the adoption of the european protection order, an important body of rules aimed at strengthening the protection of the rights of victims of violence in the european union. the adoption of the regulation will also be a major step towards the full implementation of the stockholm programme. in a common area of justice, it is essential to have provisions to ensure that protection measures taken in one member state are also recognised and enforced in another member state. in view of this need, the regulation will allow protection afforded to a natural person in one member state to be ensured in any other member state to which the person travels or moves. i am therefore very pleased with the compromises reached on simplifying the procedure, particularly with regard to the translations and the facilities provided for the transmission of certificates. i also fully agree with the legal alignment of the text with the directive on minimum standards on the rights of victims of crime to assistance and protection. the combined application of the two instruments will finally allow victims who have been granted a protection order to move freely and safely within the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues for their excellent work. it is a proposal for a regulation which concerns all victims of violence in europe, but i would like to stress in particular the positive impact of this regulation on european women who are victims of violence. one in five women in europe has been a victim of violence at least once in her life. the femicide in italy, and not only in italy, is taking on more than dramatic dimensions. the new italian government has pledged to propose to parliament a stronger law for the protection of women and tougher preventive measures against perpetrators of violence. however, italy and many other member states have not yet ratified the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the commission has therefore taken the opportunity to urge the member states to ratify the istanbul convention as soon as possible. a common multilingual certificate for the member states on automatic recognition, the commitment not to burden the victims with the costs of administrative compliance is indeed a very important regulation that will make progress against the barbarity of violence against women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this resolution contains very precise indications on which there is a broad agreement in parliament. i shall try to summarise them by focusing on the convergence and competitiveness instrument (cci). first of all: the jrc must be set up under co-decision and must be open to non-euro countries on a voluntary basis. secondly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly: the jrc's resources must be placed in the budget of the european union; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the high-flux reactor is not a model of edf, and the case of the high-flux reactor is a clear precedent for projects financed by budgetary contributions from some member states. a multiannual budget is possible and the jrc can be the first embryo of a real euro-area budget. fourth: the commission's proposal is to replace the contracts by a code of convergence on the one hand and country-specific recommendations co-decided at union level on the other, with national implementation plans drawn up at member state level with the full involvement of national parliaments. fifth: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. we believe that parliament's position is reasonable and we hope that it will be taken into account and above all we hope for a legislative proposal on the jrc as soon as possible and we believe that the process under way at european council level should not deprive the commission of its power of legislative initiative, the exercise of which should not wait for the european council's approval.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures published by eurostat on 15 may are clear: the euro area economy is experiencing the longest period of recession since the creation of the single currency, with a sharp contraction for the sixth consecutive quarter. unprepared to deal with the crisis, terrified by the threat of the euro's shipwreck, the eu thought it could save the day by implementing a delusional plan of action: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it happens that there are schools, courts without even paper for the photocopier, there are hospitals that do not even have medicine reserves. in italy, 13.2% of the population (about 7 million inhabitants) live in poverty. in veneto, 78 000 out of 1 million 850 000 households are poor, while in spain one in eight people live in poverty. i am talking about serious, concrete situations, which in some cases become tragedies. there are unemployed entrepreneurs every day, fathers who take their own lives in italy. the policy of austerity has failed, public spending cuts have hampered growth and are dragging the eurozone member states into depression. to give a future to european and monetary union, europe must finally find the courage to fill its will to be a social and market autonomy with substance and not rhetoric, it must fight to stop the wild relocation that arises from legislative and fiscal disparities between member states and it must debunk the false myth that protecting our industrial and craft production from global recession is bad for the single market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the very long crisis we are going through presents us all with two problems: one is the constant loss of jobs and the increase in unemployment. the other is the equally steady increase in poverty. the people who are destitute, the people who don't have a decent living situation have increased immeasurably in this part of the world. so we should expect - but unfortunately not - action by the commission to solve both problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the social pillar we are discussing this morning, we need new instruments which are able to defend the most vulnerable people when they lose their jobs or when they cannot find them. social cohesion is an outstanding factor in competitiveness; without cohesion this part of the world is destined to fall apart and to fail to achieve positive results, neither now nor in the future. i hope that there will be a rapid reversal of the trend, of which i am unfortunately not seeing any sign this morning.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tax evasion in europe burns through a trillion euros a year, more than the entire european budget, about two thousand euros for each citizen. this is wasted resources which would be valuable for new investment and economic recovery. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also proposed a blacklist of tax havens and an appropriate agreement on the exchange of information within the eu and between eu countries and non-eu territories, including for the purpose of verifying the obligations of multinationals. emblematic is the news of the tax evasion of over 74 billion dollars by apple which, among other things, produces in china by exploiting slave labor to the limits of slavery.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, every year in the european union about a trillion euros are lost to fraud, tax evasion and avoidance. this undermines the ability of states and public bodies to fulfil their responsibilities and places an unacceptable burden on employees, whose income is taxed almost entirely at source. it is therefore unjustifiable that several member states still grant privacy to citizens of other member states who withhold their income and assets from taxation as defined by the laws in force, thus encouraging crimes that block development, fuel corruption and steal the future from the younger generations. italy is among the member states most affected by these crimes. the commission's proposal to define clearly a set of criteria for defining tax havens and drawing up a blacklist is therefore welcome. the member states, on the other hand, have a duty to stop tax-avoiding companies from being granted aid for public procurement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr kleva kekuš for the excellent work he has done. finally, the issue of tax evasion and avoidance is being tackled at community level as a real scourge that must be eradicated. sadly, years of indifference have created situations that are difficult to remedy today. companies that regularly paid taxes were driven out of the market in favour of companies that evaded and avoided taxes and thus distorted free competition. but even today, unfortunately, we see examples, even from large companies, that are taking actions of this kind, so we cannot let our guard down. we must not think that a fiscal policy at national level, without coordination at community level, can produce optimum results. we must dare to do more, and the main road is to achieve fiscal union at community level in the medium term. we are also beginning to think about a revision of the vat rules, which means that there are loopholes between the member states. in concluding my statement positively, i would ask the commission to move forward.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a trillion euro a year of potential tax revenue is being lost precisely because of tax fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. these are absolutely unacceptable and intolerable figures, which require the urgent effort of all the institutions to achieve by 2020 a halving of the loss of tax revenue. in my view, the lack of coordination of the european union's fiscal policies must be resolved quickly and effectively in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the internal market and, above all, to give breathing space to citizens who are already suffering from the austerity measures introduced by the member states, precisely as a result of the serious economic crisis, without raising tax rates or introducing new taxes, which would be a serious damage. a coordinated multi-level approach is therefore needed at national and eu level as well as at international level. we therefore voted in favour of this initiative and this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it points out that in europe, every year, at least eur 1 trillion of potential tax revenue is lost to tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance. this loss is scandalous and represents a serious danger to the safeguarding of the eu social model based on quality public services available to all, and it also facilitates the growing inequality within our society. tax fraud and tax avoidance, therefore, represent a serious, multifaceted problem, requiring a coordinated approach at national, eu and international level. with this resolution we call on the member states to allocate adequate staff, expertise and budget resources to their national tax administrations and to introduce strong tools against corruption. i value of primary importance the idea of a harmonised tackling of tax fraud under criminal law, in particular on cross-border investigations. most of all i agree that the commission should come forward with a legislative proposal on a clear definition of tax havens together with a public european blacklist of tax havens by 31 december 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the fight against tax fraud. the time we are living in is extremely difficult and it is now more important than ever to recover the funds lost each year through tax fraud and evasion. it is estimated that the total loss of tax revenue in the eu is close to one trillion euros per year, which i believe is not only alarming but also unsustainable. the european objective is to reduce this loss by at least half by the end of 2020: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. a strong commitment to reducing the loss of tax revenue would in particular contribute to the necessary stabilisation of financial markets by significantly reducing the liquidity available for financial transactions not linked to real economic activity. this would also increase the public revenue available for fiscal consolidation measures, reducing the effects of austerity. it would also ensure that the necessary resources are made available to increase public investment in strengthening the eu's international competitiveness and growth potential.
in writing. - i agree with the report's concerns and vote in favour of it, with a few exceptions. even without the murphy report, we are aware of the threat of damage from fraud, tax evasion and avoidance. the key here is the european dimension and the coordination of responses, because while it is true that there are countries like italy, which according to recent analyses collects less than 50% of the potential vat revenue, other countries considered virtuous are also affected by important aggregates, without underestimating the effects of 'aggressive planning'. increased coordination, both in enforcement activities and in the policy management of the tax haven dossier, will also help states to improve control and recovery in a balanced and results-oriented framework. it must be admitted, without any moralising, that a courageous fight against tax evasion is the only option on the table for many member states, as tax pressure is now at regressive levels and threatens the social fabric. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. in this sense, the fight against evasion is a necessary prerequisite for genuinely liberal and pro-cyclical policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that tax fraud and tax evasion are among the evils of our time, that they undermine the well-being of europe and its citizens and that they must be countered by concerted action between the different member states. national and unilateral measures are not and will not be enough to defeat the tax fraud scandal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is estimated that about one trillion euros are lost every year in europe. it is important to recover this money not only to stabilise the financial market, but also to invest these resources for growth and jobs. we have a moral obligation to the citizens, and if we want to alleviate the tax burden on the weaker parties we must make everyone pay, especially those who have not paid so far. we must do everything in our power to combat these illegal practices which undermine the trust and legitimacy of the tax system as a whole.
in writing. − the aim is to halve the loss of tax revenue by using the eu, as national measures have proved ineffective. the commission is therefore proposing to authorize the eu commission to negotiate agreements with third countries itself, rather than resorting to bilateral agreements, to exclude from financing and public procurement those companies which violate eu tax rules and to revoke the banking licence of those institutions found to be complicit in tax evasion. the commission is also proposing to introduce country-by-country reporting, create a european tax identification code (cif) and draw up a 'blacklist' of tax havens by the end of 2014. i vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens because i believe that a single approach - through a uniform tax regime at european level - is the only way forward to effectively combat fraud, tax evasion and money laundering and to restore tax fairness, to the benefit of public budgets and european taxpayers, in a period of severe economic crisis where these sums are continuously being diverted from education, health, welfare and economic development. in this respect, the cooperation agreement between certain european union states on a unified anti-money laundering policy represents the starting point for the desirable creation of an information network that will finally allow europe to speak with one voice to ensure greater transparency, traceability of suspicious financial transactions, identification of tax evaders, and prevention of tax fraud, by eliminating banking secrecy, strengthening the exchange of information on all bank accounts, and determining the beneficial owners of financial transactions. the establishment of a clear and uniform regulatory framework, providing for sanctions for non-compliant banks, including, in the most serious cases, the withdrawal of banking licences, is a priority of the european parliament for an effective repression of such phenomena.
in writing. - tax fraud and evasion cause a major loss of tax revenue in all eu member states. the resulting worrying fall in public revenue therefore represents a danger to the protection of the european social model based on public services available to all. as revenue losses continue to increase the level of deficit and debt in member states, the funds available to promote public investment, growth and employment are also being depleted due to the existence of a number of tax havens. as suggested by mrs kleva kekuš, we believe that the time has come to develop a comprehensive strategy based on legislative action at union level, so that member states commit themselves to the ambitious but realistic target of halving the loss of tax revenue by 2020. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and tax evasion. on the issue of tax havens, however, we believe that a common european approach is more appropriate, to be included in the eu strategy on tax revenue loss, indicating criteria for recognition and appropriate measures to be applied to the jurisdictions identified.
in writing. - the sums lost each year in tax evasion and fraud are staggering and no longer sustainable. i am therefore in favour of a strong european action to combat a global phenomenon which affects us all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would not, however, like to see the member states deprived of the possibility of taking bilateral measures: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is proposing to do so in the next few months. these unfair tax mechanisms can lead to extreme paradoxes, as in the case of greece, which has seen a massive capital flight, over 60 billion euros since 2012, into complacent swiss banks. we have a country in difficulty, which is able to improve its tax collection, but which sees it disappear at the same time. the so-called 'cheating' of someone, which is in fact a real criminal act, must therefore no longer find fertile ground, either inside or outside the union.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. it is estimated that €1 trillion of public money is lost every year in the eu through tax fraud and tax evasion. the loss of tax revenue is a threat to the preservation of the european social model, based on quality public services available to all, which ensure growth and social cohesion. at the most crucial time of the crisis, public funds are crucial to boosting public investment, growth and employment. tax fraud and tax evasion are a serious problem with various implications; a coordinated approach at national, eu and international level is therefore needed, and a common, concrete and compact european tax strategy shared and implemented by all member states should therefore be developed.
in writing. − the proposal is strongly committed to reducing the loss of tax revenue and would in particular contribute to the necessary stabilisation of financial markets by significantly reducing the liquidity available for financial transactions not linked to real economic activity. this would also increase the public revenue available for fiscal consolidation measures, while reducing the effects of austerity. i voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that urgent measures are essential to tackle the very serious figures of tax evasion and fraud affecting european countries, in order to achieve the important objective of halving the worrying amounts that are being lost annually in europe by 2020. tax evasion and fraud prevent member countries from safeguarding public services by limiting investment. the search for effective taxation is important to respond to the needs and expectations of citizens, to avoid the tightening of rates by states and to restore competitiveness to honest businesses and individuals in relation to those who evade. while respecting the competence of the member states in tax matters, a coordinated system should be created, based on major legislative actions, which will enable countries to comply with the recommendations envisaged. member states should also provide more resources to tax administrations and tax control officers to ensure an effective system that does not discourage honest citizens. it will be important to incorporate the eu's strategy on tax revenue loss into annual growth programmes, alongside stronger and fairer tax systems.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's joint debate on tax fraud and tax havens has clearly shown us that a european approach is increasingly necessary and cannot be postponed. the loss of a billion dollars in the european union in one year, of which 180 billion in italy, is a disgrace that must be healed. unlocking the potential for economic growth in the european union cannot be achieved without finding a solution to this very serious practice which weighs heavily on the member states, just as a tax system which is too heavily weighted on labour and too little active in relation to large fortunes, incomes and financial speculation weighs on the member states' ability to promote public investment, growth and employment. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the financial sector, such as the introduction of a new tax on financial transactions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the annual report on taxation and welcome the focus on unlocking the potential for economic growth in the european union. but this must make us pay even more attention to the tragic economic and social crisis we are going through, which must make us take action by the union to bring about radical change, which is also a cultural change that must first of all be brought about by the action of governments. there are too many differences between governments and the events of recent days of large companies which have anticipated moving away - as in italy, for example, fiat, moving their headquarters from italy to great britain simply for tax reasons - must lead us to a reflection which really requires us to adopt a policy which is the responsibility of the member states, but which must allow us to really get out of this by means of a homogeneous policy. we must be more ambitious, and in the medium term we must achieve harmonization of national tax structures, by starting a real fight against what we can call the white-collar workers, the companies, not just the small tax evaders, but above all those who are responsible for the great evasion. that is why coordination and the sharing of best practice between all the member states is now a must, with the hope that an ad hoc european task force will be set up shortly.
in writing. − despite the long way the european integration process has come, taxation still remains a matter for the member states national sovereignty over this important aspect of economic policy seriously undermines the achievement of the important results that the union is seeking to achieve, especially in relation to the great potential for growth that it possesses and which, as this report says, must be unlocked. i am in favour of the creation of the 'tax snake' committee which, in the hope of harmonizing the tax systems of the member states, will simply coordinate them more efficiently and effectively. finally, double taxation and, above all, tax evasion, which greatly weaken european public revenue, also require urgent solutions. the loss would amount to as much as one trillion euros, an exorbitant sum which deserves to be spent more productively, given the serious problems linked to the current economic crisis. i hope that governments can take steps in the future to make european economic policy really strong and competitive.
in writing. − tax regimes in individual eu countries should be more favourable to businesses, so as to stimulate their growth. the credibility of budgetary policy must be restored by implementing structural reforms, by changing taxes and by intervening in expenditure. new taxes should only be introduced if they are compatible with growth. we must have more coordination before we can achieve real harmonization. the report calls on the member states to increase transparency, to step up the fight against tax evasion and to improve tax collection. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - although it is undeniable that taxation is still a matter for national sovereignty, the recent debt crisis has raised new issues in the european union which require adjustment of fiscal policies in the short, medium and long term. we welcomed the idea of mr gáll-pelcz of creating a coordinated and intelligent 'tax snake' which does not seek to harmonize the tax systems of all the member states but is concerned with their coordination in order to take account of the tax reductions and increases in the various national systems. we therefore consider the proposal for an action plan to solve a problematic situation for the european union to be valid, given that double taxation and tax evasion continue to be a cause of considerable budgetary losses for the union. we therefore believe that it is essential to continue to focus on possible solutions to these difficulties in order to restore the credibility of budgetary policy and reduce sovereign debt. finally, we stress the need to give priority to growth-oriented fiscal measures and the promotion of taxes which affect consumption more than labour, as they are more likely to stimulate economic growth and employment in the long term.
in writing. − the recent debt crisis has raised a host of new issues in the european union which require a proper adjustment of fiscal policies in the short, medium and long term. and so i voted in favour of the report's proposal for the creation of a so-called coordinated and intelligent 'tax snake' which, instead of harmonising the tax systems of all the member states, would simply coordinate them in such a way as to take account of the tax reductions and increases in the national systems.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the commission's proposal not to convene a convention to add to the eu treaty and the treaty on the functioning of the eu a specific protocol for the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to the czech republic, because the effects, if any, would be extremely limited. i have followed the instructions of my group in this respect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr duff's text, supporting the adoption of the european council's proposal and not considering it necessary, as the rapporteur has reiterated, to convene a convention to examine the proposal to extend to the czech republic protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the union to poland and the united kingdom.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters because i believe that it is an essential instrument for filling the gap in effective protection which in many cases characterizes those who would need these protection measures, vulnerable and fragile people in a system which sometimes does not allow the effective guarantee of fundamental rights such as free access, particularly in crossborder disputes where it is essential to have the possibility, especially for the less well-off, to have the protection they need. this is a real guarantee for young people, women and children. it is true that this instrument will only be effective in january, but we are convinced that the path taken is the right one to ensure, especially at this time, that certain people such as women are protected, especially in italy and elsewhere where femicide has been particularly significant.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the measures implementing the european protection order are indeed an innovative instrument at the service of citizens, especially those most in need. the protection order is intended to provide practical help, support for all victims of crime throughout the european union. we are talking about victims of hate crimes such as violence against women, domestic violence, stalking, human trafficking, violence against children, exploitation and child pornography. i am pleased to highlight among the priorities the possibility of free legal aid, but also of practical help, psychological and social support for victims of crime.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because it completes the framework of forms of prevention, protection and support for victims of violence in europe, both in the civil and criminal spheres, such as the previous protection order, making free movement on our continent safer by enforcing a protection order issued by one country in other member states. i am thinking in particular of the many women who are victims of stalking, violence and threats, and of the many children who are often subjected to intolerable forms of violence and threats. i am thinking of the many victims of violence - sometimes even within the family or friends circle - who can thus be guaranteed free legal assistance, easy access to the possibility of obtaining this right, information on procedures and also forms of psychological and social support. i think this is an important step forward in building a legal area of freedom of movement and protection of rights for people in europe.
in writing. − the adoption of this regulation introduces important new elements for all victims of violence in europe and creates a uniform framework of protection measures issued in both criminal and civil matters. it is a step of great importance, firstly, for european women: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. however, in this context, many member states are still lacking in ratification of the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. ratifying the convention would add further elements to the whole body of measures to protect and promote the safety of women and i therefore urge the commission to take an initiative towards the member states to ratify it as soon as possible. i have supported this proposal for a regulation also because of some practical and useful measures which it defines: a common, multilingual certificate for all member states, its automatic recognition and the commitment not to impose on victims of violence the administrative costs and obligations arising from its application.
in writing. - following the instructions of my group, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters. the regulation is part of a legislative package to strengthen the rights of victims of crime in the eu. it is essential to ensure that a person who enjoys protection in one member state does not lose it when he travels to another member state. i therefore believe that it is essential to set up a mechanism to eliminate intermediate formalities through the use of a standardised, multilingual certificate. this would ensure not only quick and simple recognition but also the application of protection measures. the mechanism will also make the administrative procedure more linear for victims and ensure their protection when they travel or move to another member state. member states are also encouraged to ensure that the protected person does not bear the financial burden of the recognition of the protection measure in another member state.
in writing. − the latest available eurostat data gives the number of europeans who have moved to a country in the union other than their country of origin at 12 million, excluding the migration from the so-called 'a-8' countries, whose story will be defined as it is known in 2014. it is clear that an increase in the propensity to move requires adjustments to the system for the effective exercise of the rights of european citizenship. in the field under discussion today, new trends and new recurrent criminal cases are emerging: i am thinking of gender-based violence, sometimes originating from conflict with traditional cultures, or the situation of so-called whistleblowers in environments particularly affected by corruption and crime. in this context, the option of relocation, especially on the lines of friendship, family or professional solidarity, sometimes provides an opportunity to guarantee full rights to victims of crime and the opportunity for a new life protected from threats to personal integrity. the proposal for a regulation integrates in a single dimension a number of legal, procedural, documentary and practical aspects, in the overall interest of victims of crime and also of the right of defence. in particular, it provides for the convergence of civil and administrative aspects into a single instrument. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation which implements the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters. it is essential to provide citizens who are victims of crime with a common european framework offering all possible guarantees to obtain redress for the damage suffered. this instrument is in fact in addition to the already provided for recognition of measures in criminal matters and undoubtedly strengthens the rights of europeans. it is right to ensure that a person who enjoys protection in one member state does not lose it when he travels to another member state. another important aspect which i agree with is the desire to deal further with the issue of victims of gender-based violence, who are too often women. in fact, it refers expressly to the rules laid down in the proposal for a directive which, together with this regulation, make up the legislative package for the protection of the rights of victims. i agree with encouraging the staff who deal with these cases, as well as with recognising and supporting the work of the many ngos, associations and voluntary organisations working in this sensitive and important area for our civil society.
in writing. - this proposal aims at creating an area of cooperation with regard to the civil sector only. the regulation is aimed at protecting against crossborder violence, without requiring member states to amend their national legislation. i think that the report as a whole deserves a favourable vote.
in writing. − the data from recent years on stalking and domestic violence, with one in four women admitting to having been the victim of such acts at least once in their lives, continue to leave a certain bitterness. however, there has also been a growing awareness among the european population of the fact that such acts are a common problem in europe, and today's vote is moving in that direction. mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters allows for a higher level of protection for victims of these offences, providing a more coherent regulatory framework at european level. the simplification of intermediate formalities, through the use of a single model certificate and the right to assistance in an understandable language, must however be accompanied by adequate training of the personnel providing such assistance, who must have appropriate skills to deal with situations of violence. it is also desirable to organise adequate information campaigns throughout europe on the possibilities offered by the union for the free movement of protective measures.
in writing. - today we adopted the important report on the proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, aimed at strengthening the rights of victims within the european union. the regulation also includes a proposal for a directive on the rights, assistance and protection of victims of crime. there has long been a need for a general european policy framework to legitimize the position of victims of crime in terms of protection in all eu member states. the combined application of criminal and civil instruments will enable persons in a protected status to enjoy the same safety conditions and thus to move freely within all the member states of the union. we also believe that it is essential to establish a mechanism to eliminate intermediate formalities through the use of standardised and multilingual certificates. we are also convinced of the need to provide assistance in a comprehensible form and in an accessible language; in this connection, we invite the competent authorities to arrange for translations and interpretations of the regulations in the mother tongue of the person concerned. finally, we would point out that it is essential, for the purpose of comprehensive education, that each member state includes in its awareness campaigns the new directive on the mutual recognition of protection measures available within the european union.
in writing. - the measures we voted for today and which i supported should allow for full recognition and greater guarantee and protection for victims of crime, extending coverage beyond national borders, in all countries of the union. with the abolition of internal frontiers and the increasingly massive mobility of european citizens, it is essential to think of more extensive measures, which offer greater protection, without, of course, prejudicing the sovereignty of the member states in judicial and criminal matters. mutual recognition arrangements can be particularly useful, especially with regard to the status of women, which is still too often trampled on: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the rights of victims of violence, harassment, intimidation and stalking. this is an important step forward, which makes us appreciate, for once, the fact that we are in a european union which is too often far removed from the needs of its citizens: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. − victims of stalking, harassment or gender-based violence must be protected. that is why i support the legislation providing for guarantees and protection for victims in the community. i believe that victims of gender-based violence should be provided with support services throughout the community and that officials should be trained to provide such support. this would significantly strengthen the union's area of freedom, security and justice. i therefore share the outcome of the vote on the new civil law which complements the european protection order by ensuring that protection granted in one member state is maintained when the victim travels or moves to another member state.
in writing. the text adopted today is a key instrument for ensuring full legal protection for over 500 million european citizens. a package of legislation that finally gives every person full respect and recognition of his or her rights. this is a necessary means of establishing the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions in civil matters in all the member states. in this area, stalking and violence against women are particularly relevant, since they require specific judicial safeguards. the tragedy of the now daily emergence of violence against women is unfortunately not exhausted by the outcry that is aroused by the media. it is a persistent and pervasive reality which even in advanced societies such as ours has the dimensions of a genuine social danger. only by providing victims with adequate protection and by fostering a cultural change in the hearts and minds of people will we be able to eradicate this evil.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters brings a clear improvement in legal terms and will, in fact, allow formal recognition for all victims of crime and greater protection within the european union. the numerous interinstitutional meetings and trilogues held in recent months have made it possible to reach agreements on such sensitive issues as simplification of procedures, the right to information and translation for the parties involved and the legal alignment of the text with the european protection order.
in writing. - following the instructions of my group, i voted in favour of the draft council decision on customs cooperation between the eu and canada on supply chain security. the previous agreement, dating back to 2011, needed to be extended and improved, reinforcing its customs aspects to make the logistics chain of international trade more secure, including container security, while facilitating legitimate trade. i think this is an important step towards paving the way for mutual recognition agreements on customs security.
in writing. − our trade relations with canada are healthy, flourishing and inspired by the creation of important synergies, even before the current agreements were drawn up in 1988. it is therefore worth taking a step forward, especially in the light of the security threats that are increasingly imposing costs on businesses worldwide. that is why, after two long years of negotiations, the commission has proposed this agreement to us, and i have not hesitated to promote it in view of a future, broad and comprehensive canada-eu trade agreement.
in writing. − the agreement covers customs relations between the eu and canada. negotiations for close cooperation have been ongoing since 2005. their purpose is to simplify procedures for legitimate trade and to increase the security of containers, so as to facilitate trade. the eu has already negotiated and concluded similar agreements with the usa and japan. now this project is also making it possible to reach an agreement with the north american country. i think it is valid, so i vote in favour.
in writing. i have endorsed this agreement because it respects the interests of the european union and european businesses can benefit from a strengthened agreement with canada. supply chain security is an essential element of today's trade. the european union and canada were to agree on standards related to supply chain security and risk management. in addition, this agreement will provide an encouraging preamble for the larger negotiations on the draft trade agreement between the european union and canada.
in writing. − the eu-canada customs relations are based on the 1998 agreement on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters (cmaa). since 2005, canada has expressed its interest in closer cooperation with the eu on security along the supply chain and risk management. this paved the way for the mutual recognition of their trade partnership programmes with equivalent trade facilitation measures. for these reasons i am satisfied with the outcome of the vote on the extension of the scope of the existing legislation, in favour of an agreement providing for greater customs security, trade partnership programmes with equivalent trade facilitation measures and greater security of the supply chain. in this context, it is considered that a new agreement is needed, based on the customs cooperation developed between the two partners and capable of being supplemented by the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) currently under negotiation.
in writing. the cooperation agreement between the european union and canada, through certain partial mutual recognitions, will make it possible to streamline and simplify customs operations, with a consequent benefit for trade. for these reasons i voted in favour of mr šťastný's text.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, this report was not put to the vote because the rapporteur finally asked for the vote on the legislative part to be postponed. this is not a good sign from my point of view, because it shows once again the hesitancy of the member states to strengthen economic and monetary union. unfortunately, the economic and financial crisis we have been through has made us realise in practical terms how much of a gamble it was to introduce the single currency without ever imagining that we were laying the foundations for a common monetary policy. work had begun on the commitment of the member states as well and this parliament has diligently carried it forward, also with the cooperation of mr giegold in this case, but unfortunately we have come to a delay. there was no agreement on what the requirements, new powers and new composition of the european supervisory authority should be. i hope that this is rectified as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr gielgod because i believe that the harmonization of the different national deposit guarantee schemes and the preparation of a single set of rules on financial services will be the basis for the realisation of the true banking union that so many have been calling for. in its turn, the banking union is only the first step towards the actual european union, as has been pointed out in recent days by important representatives of some national governments. moreover, greater regulatory uniformity will gradually reduce the unfair disparities currently present in the financial market, which unfairly penalise the productive sectors of some countries without taking due account of the actual health of the real economy. i therefore share the call not only for a single corpus but also for its uniform application.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is consistent with the vote on mr thyssen's report. this proposal is in fact ancillary to the other, and for this reason the one does not make sense without the other. i think the european banking authority is a huge step forward for the whole european project, and this report confirms the will to move forward, which i fully agree with.
in writing. − the ecb should cooperate with the eba in the eu system of financial supervision, and the commission has therefore presented a proposal for a regulation to align the current eba set-up with the new banking supervision. it is expected that eba will be able to request all necessary authorisations from financial institutions to carry out the various operations, and in the investigative field it may require the submission of various documents. the ecb will continue to exercise direct control over banks with assets of more than 30 billion, while the others will continue to be subject to the control of national authorities. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any information on the amount of the loan. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am against this report because it does not have the courage to face reality. the banking system in many european countries is not working: in italy, for example, credit to businesses and households has collapsed, and money is being invested in government bonds instead of in the production system. in many cases the rates charged are over 8%, and many banks refuse to accept real estate as collateral. this means that a young couple who want to buy their house and need a loan from a bank cannot do so because they are refused as collateral for the property. the fact that i think is more serious is that the ecb not only does not intervene - for example by increasing the money in circulation by printing money as the usa and japan have done, which thanks to this choice are coming out of the crisis - but even lends money to banks at the rate of 0.50% without binding them. it is time to revise the rules governing the ecb and make it the bank of european businesses and households instead of being, in fact, a private institution that finances credit institutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report has also been deferred by the house. i think that the work done by mr thyssen is important and above all i think it is right to stress the step forward that has been made in the direction most people want, which is to finally succeed in linking monetary policies with supervisory powers. today, prudential supervision is generally entrusted to central banks, monetary policy is entrusted to the european central bank. the proposal which is supported by the report we partially voted on this morning shows the way, the path of entrusting the european central bank with the powers of prudential supervision, in order to reconstitute this separation and finally give an indication of protection to both investors and institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs thyssen because i believe that it is good that the ecb should be given more supervisory powers: the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. banks must certainly be given the same serious treatment as other companies. supervision at european level will make it possible to ensure that potential dangers for the whole union, which are ready to have devastating chain effects, are not hidden behind the folds of national legislation. i therefore appreciate the detailed rules that are being drawn up to exercise this crucial control function. on the other hand, the severity of the approach to the banking sector must never lose sight of the fundamental importance of protecting the savers and investors who have put their trust in it. the strong call for the need to guarantee these categories must remain a constant in any reform we wish to implement. citizens cannot be victims of the errors and frivolity of a system in which they are spectators. this will be taken into account in every step we take.
in writing. - the text we voted on is the result of intense and arduous negotiations. at stake is not just the euro's strength, but the whole real economic system underlying the currency. in analysing these phenomena, we must always start from the assumption that emu is something without precedent. there were no experiments, nor could there be, and there's no safety net if something goes wrong. it is normal that there are some adjustments along the way, or that you realize over time that some aspects need to be completed. the banking union is one of them. i think mrs thyssen has done a very good job of navigating this very delicate situation and defending the european parliament's positions in the negotiations, and i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − in september 2012, the commission entrusted the ecb with the task of supervising the financial stability of all banks in the euro area. the system, which came into force on 1 january, can also be adopted by countries which have not joined the single currency. the econ committee proposed that it be amended in the following respects: maintain separate supervisory policy and monetary policy, respect the size and types of credit institutions, allow direct involvement of the ecb in banks receiving public support and organise hearings with representatives of the supervisory board. i am voting in favour of this.
in writing. - i am voting in full support of the proposal to establish a single european banking supervisory system. the european central bank will now be able to supervise the largest banks in the euro area directly and have a say in the supervision of other banks. the last step is now necessary, continuing the ongoing talks with the european central bank to identify precisely the democratic responsibilities.
in writing. − the current directive 2007/23/ec lays down the essential safety requirements to be met by pyrotechnic articles when they are made available on the union market. the inconsistent implementation of this legislation and its complexity have made it increasingly difficult for economic operators to implement its provisions correctly, leading to disparate market conditions and the marketing of non-compliant products. in order to close these gaps, a new regulatory framework has been adopted which, in my view, by introducing a simplified regulatory framework for products and allowing for a more consistent implementation of technical standards, will provide member states' authorities with more effective tools to carry out market surveillance checks, ensuring fair competition and a supply of safe products for citizens. i welcome the proposal to modernise the procedures to enable the eu declaration of conformity to be provided not only in paper format but also in electronic form in order to reduce red tape. in order to ensure a higher level of product market surveillance, i agree with the rapporteur in proposing to improve market surveillance in distance selling by ensuring that, also in electronic commerce, the relevant information requirements are displayed.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal for a european parliament directive to harmonise the laws of the individual member states on the marketing of pyrotechnic articles. i therefore voted in favour, as i had agreed with my colleagues in the epp. in a sensitive area such as fireworks, a common and shared regulatory framework is needed to close the gaps that have existed so far and thus ensure fair competition and the supply of safe products. it is true that the provisions of the new regulatory framework are not directly applicable: the commission will therefore be required to integrate the existing legislation so that all economic sectors to which the legislation applies benefit from the improvements introduced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs roithová on the harmonization of the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles. the text fills the gaps in eu harmonisation legislation to complete the single market in the sector, ensuring competition and safer products on the market.
in writing. − in this particular sector, it is essential to simplify the regulatory framework in order to facilitate the fight against the spread of dangerous and non-compliant products. this specific sector is, according to some studies, the most affected by the distribution of illegal products in the eu, with significant overall values, although not comparable to those derived from counterfeiting trademarks and medicines. i am voting in favour of the report, also because it introduces a number of provisions clarifying the powers and procedures for certification and marking, and others which consider electronic commerce to be a particularly sensitive frontier. we must bear in mind, without resorting to pedagogical or counterproductive measures of interventionism, that producers are legitimately looking for new markets and new buyers: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of accidents at work. measures such as those set out in this regulation, together with public protection measures such as the requirement for traders of pyrotechnic articles to obtain a licence from the safety authorities, contribute to the promotion of a culture of responsible consumption.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to simplify and facilitate the understanding of certain regulations for producers and consumers of pyrotechnic articles and to clarify the obligations of economic operators. i think it is important to make the rules more comprehensible and linear in order to bring benefits to this industry. consumer confidence and safety before, during and after the purchase of pyrotechnic articles should be improved. i also agree with the need to ensure a higher level of product market surveillance in distance selling, especially in electronic commerce, by providing general information on the purchase of the product. i believe that safety comes first and i fully agree with the rapporteur and therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this is a very technical directive, introduced in 2011 to adapt several products to the new regulatory framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. the amendments to this directive are very technical and concern, among other things, the alignment with the new provisions of the treaty of lisbon on comitology. since there were no specific requests from the representatives of the trade unions and since the text was unanimously approved by the imco committee, with 35 members present, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because there is no doubt that the adaptation of the nine industrial product directives to the new regulatory framework represents a further step towards the completion of the union's single market and will allow us to improve our defenses against products of dubious origin, while protecting our economic operators who are exposed to intense international competition. i believe that this alignment will be important in order to ensure that in all member states there is a strengthening of the surveillance measures which would limit the placing of unsafe products on the market and avoid dangerous effects on the health of consumers. the contribution of all eu member states will also be crucial to achieving good results, as they will have to step up control measures in the distance selling market and the protection of the ec mark.
in writing. - the text by mr roithová makes important changes to a european commission proposal which revises directive 2007/23/ec on the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles. the new rules will fill the gaps in existing eu harmonisation legislation, complete the single market and ensure fair competition and safer product supply.
in writing. − the audiovisual media services directive 2010/13/eu is the basis for media regulation in the european union. according to the data published by the european audiovisual observatory, its application has a positive impact on the development of the market: at the end of 2012, there were more than 8000 television service providers and more than 2000 on-demand service providers registered in the union. with reference to this specific sector, i take this opportunity to stress the importance of the issue of the protection of minors, since they are the most exposed to the dangers arising from certain types of commercial communications. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to promote the development of codes of conduct in the member states with the aim of tackling the problem of inappropriate audiovisual commercial communications in children's programmes. the audiovisual services market is subject to strong international competition. over 1500 suppliers are based outside the european union but target their offerings to european markets; these broadcasters are not always bound by the legal obligations of european broadcasters. i therefore call on the commission to continue to monitor compliance with the existing rules to protect european companies in the sector which could be harmed by unfair competition resulting from this disparity in legal obligations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on audiovisual media services, as did my colleagues in the epp, because i believe that the effectiveness of the eu directive on this matter needs to be assessed. this is a directive which has been implemented at different levels in the various member states, although it is an internal market instrument combining the right to provide audiovisual services, the right to freedom of expression and information, as well as the protection of important public interest objectives. i think it is useful for the commission to continue to monitor the situation regarding the provision of audiovisual media services to people with visual or hearing disabilities. member states should also encourage broadcasters to become more aware of the needs of these people and to work towards developing technologies that ensure wider access to programmes for all citizens.
in writing. − the report reflects the breadth of the area covered by the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd) and i would like to congratulate you on the excellent summary work which clearly identifies the results achieved and the unresolved problems. i think that our reflection should be centred on two central themes, which are mentioned in the preamble and in paragraph 27 below. it is a question of finding a reasonable balance between conflicting needs: for example, the protection of property rights versus the public interest in free, complete and accessible information and networks and platforms that are of strategic interest. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. i therefore vote in favour of the rapporteur's recommendations, and i support them, particularly in two respects: a consistent and market-oriented discipline as an instrument of industrial policy, given that the sector has been severely affected by the difficulties of the real economy in terms of declining advertising revenues. the commission has also stressed the need to accompany technological convergence processes with measures to promote freedom of expression and independent production, while safeguarding the rights of users and consumers, and especially those of minors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive, which is a valuable instrument for the internal market. in fact, the data that at the end of 2012 there were over 8000 tv service providers and over 2000 on-demand service providers registered in the european union seem to be worthy of consideration. i agree with the call on the commission to monitor the situation regarding the provision of audiovisual media services to people with visual or hearing disabilities, and it seems essential to encourage broadcasters to ensure the widest possible accessibility. all national initiatives for the protection of minors, the most vulnerable members of society, including the development of codes of conduct to address the problem of inappropriate audiovisual commercial communications in children's programmes, should also be encouraged. the correct application of this directive is also important for the promotion of culture, for ensuring freedom and pluralism of the media and for discouraging the still too widespread incitement to hatred on grounds of race, sex, religion or nationality.
in writing. − the state of play of the implementation of directive 2010/13/eu on audiovisual media services is examined. its effectiveness could be implemented with regard to accessibility for those with a visual or hearing disability, the protection of minors and the promotion of european works. as regards article 6 on the 'prohibition of incitement to hatred', this has only been applied once to certain anti-semitic broadcasts. the report does not contain any controversial points, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − today, in plenary, we were asked to assess the effectiveness of the audiovisual media services directive 2010/13/eu, taking into account the progress made in its transposition. the ami directive constitutes an internal market instrument combining the right to provide audiovisual services and the right to freedom of expression and information with the protection of important public interest objectives. as the sma directive is based on the principle of technological neutrality, it has been drafted in such a way that it remains up to date despite technological developments. mr borys pointed out that the eu commission had not fully addressed the issue of accessibility, nor had it provided an assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of the relevant provisions in individual member states. we believe it is important in this respect to monitor the situation regarding the provision of audiovisual media services. the promotion of cultural diversity through the distribution of european works is also essential to raise awareness in all eu countries of media pluralism, based on the principle of freedom and the right to information. finally, we believe that it is necessary to promote the development of codes of conduct to deal with the problem of inappropriate audiovisual commercial communications in children's programmes, since we attach great importance to the need to protect minors.
in writing. − a full development of the audiovisual media sector in europe is certainly one of the main challenges we have to face, as it is a huge market reaching a very wide range of individuals. however, there are still problems of accessibility in this field, and i would like to mention for example the distribution and marketing of works for the blind, which we also discussed yesterday in this house, with the difficult issue of copyright. i am pleased that particular attention is paid in this report to the protection of children, who are particularly exposed and vulnerable to the influence of the audiovisual media: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised. finally, the promotion of european works, which are often crushed by competition from the united states, must be supported: the audiovisual sector in our country, in addition to preserving and representing our culture and traditions, can be an important industry, with the potential to create new jobs within the european union.
in writing. − freedom and pluralism of the media are essential features of democratic societies and are recognised by the eu charter of fundamental rights. the development of a single legal framework for audiovisual media services, with a view to strengthening the internal market for the production and distribution of programmes, is the backbone of the union as regards the cultural sector. on 22 may 2013, in the european parliament, we laid the groundwork for a directive combining the right to provide audiovisual services, the right to freedom of expression and information and the preservation of general interest objectives. the implementation of the audiovisual media services directive will ensure that films from the union can reach a wider audience, both at national level and in other member states. currently, most european markets are characterised by a strong presence of american productions, so it is of paramount importance to continue to analyse in depth the evolution of eu markets and consumer behaviour in order to adapt the regulatory framework to the needs of the audiovisual industry and to enhance our competitiveness.
in writing. − i gave a favourable opinion on the report on the evaluation of the effectiveness of the audiovisual media services directive 2010/13/eu because it has proven to safeguard the right to freedom of expression and information, while protecting important public interest objectives. i consider very important the commitment to protect minors, who are considered to be the users most exposed to the commercial dangers posed by certain consumption patterns, and the commitment made by states to promote initiatives to protect them, by tightening up the provisions and showing that they are also sensitive to discriminatory issues. i also believe it is important to ensure that everyone has access to audiovisual equipment, by trying to overcome barriers and propose suitable solutions that take account of the continuing evolution of audiovisual services. the countries will have to continue to combat discrimination in advertising and to be more vigilant about excessive advertising of commercial products which in some cases invade our equipment more than is permitted and an adaptation of the regulatory framework is necessary in case there are developments in the sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i read the letter i sent this morning to the president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz: 'i am sorry, mr president, for the remarks you made at the opening of the sitting on monday 20 may 2013 concerning my words during the political satire programme "la mosquito" about the minister cécile kyenge, and i feel obliged to offer my most sincere apologies to the minister kyenge, who was offended by my words, which i have no difficulty withdrawing, especially if, despite my real intentions, they may have been perceived as offensive either to a person of colour or to a woman. i am very sorry if, because of the way it was expressed, my attack - which was intended to be purely political and aimed at a certain immigration policy which i disapprove of and in particular the justification of polygamy which i believe was made by the minister - has brought disgrace to the dignity of this parliament and to the efd group itself".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, may i say that there is a certain amount of political hypocrisy today in discussing the syrian refugees, in being rightly alarmed by the situation developing in neighbouring countries and in asking for more credible humanitarian intervention, when we continue to escape the fact that this situation is a direct consequence of the failure to resolve the syrian conflict and our inability to produce political initiative. eighteen months ago, on december 11, 2011, ehud barak predicted that bashar al-assad's days were numbered. since then the israeli defense minister has retired from politics while the syrian president is still in power. assad is strong with the political and military support of russia and iran, the entry of hezbollah is probably turning the battle around and we are watching. i do not know what the outcome of the geneva summit that is being prepared will be, but i do know that if nothing is done, not only will the death toll of 90,000 increase, but the refugee problem itself will continue to increase, creating a much more complicated and difficult picture for the whole region to manage. so, it would really help if we got here fast.
madam president, commissioner füle, the number of refugees from syria has passed the one million mark. throughout the conflict all sorts of abuses have been documented: war crimes, human rights and humanitarian abuses on a large scale have been perpetrated by both the assad regime and the various rebel groups. with no political solution in sight, militarisation of the conflict has escalated. russia and iran have continued to arm the assad side. syrian rebels have a supply of weapons from saudi arabia and qatar with the help of the usa, despite protestations that such transfers are illegal under international law. in spite of a desperate humanitarian crisis, the international community and even some eu member states appear more concerned with ‘who to harm’ than ‘how to aid’. if we want to be effective in reducing war crimes and abuses in syria we should enforce more strictly – and not lift – the arms embargo and advocate more, and not less, of a political and diplomatic solution.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, while any action seems inadequate, given the scale of the syrian tragedy, we have mobilised an unprecedented effort to assist syrians in need and their neighbours. we have a good record. we have a record of delivering on what we promise. we have a record to follow, in order to help avoid the worst on the ground, but we need to do more. the letter of 16 may 2013 from the three chairs in this house was very clear in that respect. international ngos and un partners are doing very good work, but they are completely overwhelmed because the pace of arrival of refugees is constantly increasing. as commissioner georgieva rightly said on her recent visit to lebanon and jordan, this is the most serious and complex humanitarian crisis of recent decades. i want to look at the two dimensions you referred to in your statements: the humanitarian and the political dimensions. as far as the humanitarian dimension is concerned, we will have to tackle more decisively the issues of prioritisation, coordination and effectiveness. we have to move to a longer-term approach, not only providing shelter but also investing in infrastructure and services for refugees, such as health and education. what am i talking about? i am talking about looking differently at humanitarian assistance. i am talking about looking differently at how our assistance is being provided. we have been used to addressing countries and groups within the countries. for the first time now, we are addressing the region. we should also be innovative inside syria, trying new ways to access those in pressing need. we intend to be creative, too, as far as outside assistance is concerned. for the first time we have included in our humanitarian assistance host-country support – funding not only those who are coming to countries like lebanon and jordan but also helping the communities which are accepting the refugees. we need to look too – as we have already started doing – not at how to keep syria outside the framework of our neighbourhood policy, but rather at everything we have learned, every experience we have gathered in the various instruments of neighbourhood policy, and at how we could use this and transform it in order to help the whole region. that is what i referred to when i said that we are working now on a comprehensive approach to this region. it is no longer just a matter of the high representative pursuing her political agenda, my colleague kristalina georgieva pursuing her humanitarian agenda, and me representing the neighbourhood policy – all trying to do a little here and there – along with jordan, lebanon and other countries. it is a matter of all of us working together. as far as the political dimension is concerned, it is absolutely clear that this has been our paramount objective, and the high representative has worked tirelessly, both openly and also discreetly, to that end. she participated last year in the geneva meeting and she has engaged consistently in that process with all the parties, including the un security council members, to work on, and build on, the geneva communiqué, seeking an agreement with the united states and russia in particular. i can confirm that she is using every possible opportunity to raise these issues with russian foreign minister lavrov and is pressing, in particular, for the success of the recent initiative for a conference and peace process based on the geneva communiqué to which i referred. i am not overly concerned with what some of you have called a lack of unity among the member states. we might have different approaches and we have had open and lengthy debates in the foreign affairs council, but at the end of those foreign affairs council meetings we have consistently come out with a united front. the concerns that we have are about a divided international community: that is what is preventing us from using the full potential of our organisation. with regard to the question of where the high representative is: this morning she was still trying to help the prime ministers of serbia and kosovo to put together the implementation plan for the very important deal that they achieved on 19 april, and later, in the afternoon, she participated in the european council. she is, of course, aware of the importance of the friends of syria meeting, but that meeting is taking place at core-group level – it is not a full plenary meeting – and the external action service is there representing her. i want to talk about the humanitarian and political dimensions. for various reasons i am not going to talk about the military dimension. for all of us dealing with these issues, what is happening is not just a distant tragedy. the people from the external action service are the ones who visit the region regularly. a couple of weeks ago i visited lebanon and tried, in particular, to address the plight of the palestinians – i will come back to them. i was there working out a programme for supporting host-country capacities. i was there together with the un agencies to work out programmes so that those arriving with small children could put them into school – ensuring capacity so that those children are not subjected to continuing tremendous psychological pressures throughout the day; so that there is an institution taking care of them for at least part of the day while their parents devote their energy and time to more pressing issues. i will be going to jordan very soon, and there too i will be visiting refugee camps. not least because of the many interventions on the subject in this house, i will make safety and security in those camps the priority of that visit. i will be exploring with the jordanian authorities how best to assist them to make sure, in particular, that the most vulnerable – the women you referred to, and the children – are protected. i agree with a number of the speakers who said that if we do not manage this crisis we will be the first to feel the consequences. that is clear to all of us, and it would be hard to find a foreign minister who would disagree. does this mean that we have more answers than questions? no, it does not. i wish i had all the answers to the many questions you have raised, and i wish i had smart reactions to all the serious – and less serious – proposals and initiatives. whether they are considered now to be more or less serious does not matter: we will scrutinise all of them because, in this unprecedented crisis, we cannot fail to give due consideration to all suggestions. regarding the resettlement of syrians from the middle east, which is a question a number of you referred to: so far, the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) has not called for a large-scale resettlement of syrian nationals displaced by the conflict. it has called for the settlement of a small number of particularly vulnerable persons, and we are following that line. in the future we will be guided by the advice of the unhcr as regards the timing and scope of such an initiative at european level. i can also stress that the commission has urged the member states on many occasions to make use of their national quotas, pledged under the 2012-2013 eu joint resettlement programme, to allocate places to refugees originating from the middle east region, including syria. i should add that it is not possible to finance any extra resettlement places from the european refugee fund, but if the unhcr were to call for a wider resettlement effort the commission would be prepared to support such an initiative, for example by organising a pledging conference. i am well aware of, and very concerned about, the plight of palestinian refugees. i talked to many of them in lebanon – those refugees who find themselves as double refugees. the european union continues to be the biggest donor to the united nations relief and works agency for palestinian refugees (unrwa). i will continue to help this organisation, and we have specific ongoing projects for palestinian refugees. there was also an important question about the kidnapping of bishops boulos yazigi and youhanna ibrahim. i want to draw attention to the statement that the high representative made on 26 april 2013 condemning the kidnapping and calling for the bishops’ immediate release. we share that concern, and i thank you very much for the additional names. in conclusion – i am sorry to have spoken for so long – we have to be aware that ‘better’ must not become the enemy of ‘good’. we have to progressively enhance our efforts. an increasing volume of assistance, quick mobilisation of funds, effective access and coordination, coupled with an appropriate political response, are our signposts. we will continue for as long as necessary and work hand in hand with our partners in the international community to make good on our promise of assistance and try to bring a lasting political settlement to this terrible conflict. my concluding remark is that we need to be aware of the linkage between the political and humanitarian dimensions. we need to be aware that, the less committed we are to the political dimension, the more committed we will have to be to the humanitarian dimension. we need to reverse that thinking and address the political dimension, because that will make it manageable for us, and the international community, to deal with the humanitarian consequences.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 may 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on asset recovery for arab spring countries in transition (2013/2612 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many reasons for giving back to the peoples of the arab spring what has been taken from them, first of all because it is a matter of vast and precious financial resources at a time of crisis and transition when they are building their future. the return of stolen goods must also serve as a warning to the dictators of today and tomorrow, showing the international community that no one can enjoy the wealth stolen from his people with impunity. i also agree with commissioner füle and my predecessors that there are moral and just reasons why these goods should go back to those who produced them, the people of the arab spring, and help to meet their needs and contribute to their economic and social development. finally, a non-secondary aspect concerns the return of assets which will remove any alibi from the present governments for their failings and make them de facto accountable to their peoples for the proper management of these resources. i would like to conclude with a question to commissioner füle: he spoke of bilateral return arrangements by member states to these maghreb countries. i would like to know what practical possibilities of coordination europe can put in place to make the return of these assets easier and faster.
madam president, commissioner füle, this resolution is the result of a strong political initiative led by the socialist group and shared by almost all the others. the return of a huge amount of assets stolen by former dictators to the arab-speaking countries is a moral and legal imperative. the repatriation of these assets is – beyond its economic significance – a strong step in combating the impunity surrounding corruption and money laundering that corrupt political leaders have so far enjoyed. egypt, libya and tunisia have already made considerable efforts aimed at ensuring that these assets are returned to the new legitimate governments, but poor results have been achieved in this respect. we do not yet have a satisfactory international legal framework governing these matters – and such a framework is essential, mr tannock. intergovernmental cooperation is not enough and, in itself, will not get us very far. there are only a couple of multilateral initiatives dedicated to this issue. the most relevant effort undertaken by the international community so far is the un convention against corruption, which devotes a full chapter to the issue of asset recovery. given the magnitude of the depredation of public resources suffered by a million people who have revolted against injustice and corruption in tunisia, egypt and libya, the time has come for strong, concrete measures. this resolution should kick-start the first large-scale attempt to identify, confiscate and repatriate assets that total more than the collective gdp of all the countries involved. we are calling for the establishment, without delay, of an eu mechanism comprising a team of first-class investigators, prosecutors and lawyers able to provide the arab league countries with all the technical assistance needed for a process of asset recovery. this mechanism should be funded through adequate eu resources and should be operational within a few months. i believe this effort will be one of the most significant contributions by the eu to the consolidation of the democratic transition in these crucial countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the recovery of assets is of enormous importance in the relations between the european union and the north african countries which have embarked on the path of change. the new governments of egypt, tunisia and libya have repeatedly called on the european union to take the issue seriously and put it on the agenda. the economic and financial situation of these countries is objectively difficult, the unemployment rate is clearly worsening, tourist revenues have fallen vertically and the economic crisis affecting europe, the main trading partner, is not leaving these countries unscathed, with very negative repercussions. it should be clear to everyone that the possibility of consolidating democratic processes and strengthening institutions does not lie solely in the definition of new and more advanced constitutional frameworks for these countries, although this is important, but in the concrete possibility of responding positively to the many economic and social expectations of the citizens. for these reasons, the recovery of assets must also be a political priority for the european union. in addition to its important political significance, it also has a strong economic impact in these transition countries, which face enormous legal and practical difficulties. the tunisian authorities submitted 66 requests for letters rogatory, mainly to the european union and the arab states; it is difficult to estimate the amount of assets to be recovered, but the tunisian government estimates between 18 and 38 billion euros, almost 50 billion for egypt and almost 100 billion for libya, 40 of which in european countries. the european parliament has already expressed its full support for this process in its resolution on egypt and is preparing to vote on this resolution. it is important, however, that this resolution be accompanied by a spirit of cooperation on the part of all the european institutions and above all the governments of the various member states in order to overcome the limitations and delays which continue to exist. there is more to be done here, he wondered. we must define a new european legal framework which will allow us to intervene because bilateral relations are not enough. two second speakers, because i want to take advantage of the presence of the commissioner to ask him if he can and will give us more information, some more information on the situation in tunisia with the clashes between the security forces and the salafists.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a year ago parliament approved the report on 'trade for change' to create economic and trade measures for the benefit of the arab spring countries. economies that must start from the bottom, exploiting the entrepreneurial spirit that is widespread in the arab world, small and medium-sized enterprises, young people who are looking at a world of work that in many cases does not exist. all right, all right! but how useful it would be to recover the assets stolen by dictators and nomenclatures, to create funds for widespread economic development, microcredit, business facilities, scholarships for students, and it would be the best way to give back to the citizens what has been taken from them and it would give a powerful signal of what a virtuous international collaboration can offer. we are still in the recovery phase, but by giving an indication of the destination of these resources we can strengthen both the motivation and the sense of justice of this initiative and also have on our side citizens who are today more skeptical and cynical about international cooperation.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, in dealing with this complex issue we all recognise that we are in for the long haul, but my understanding is that assets are beginning to return and that the rate of progress is actually greater than in previous cases, notably in relation to the return of assets allegedly stolen by the former regime in algeria. nevertheless, member states should see if there is scope to streamline their national legislation for achieving asset recovery in line with the un convention against corruption. in some respects, the european union has led the way in adjusting its sanctions legislation to facilitate the task. however, the union does not have legal competence to adopt legislation specifically to promote asset recovery with third states. honourable members, we are supporting our partners to be more successful in their bilateral efforts. the solution lies largely in the acceleration of these bilateral efforts. i have already enumerated our actions, including with the world bank, to facilitate this. let me add that we are working on funding possibilities for further help, but this would be limited to capacity building and should be coordinated with the member states and international partners. let me give you some examples of bilateral efforts. the united kingdom and germany, for instance, have both set up specific programmes to aid asset recovery. italy sent a technical delegation to the june 2012 workshop and is following up on this with the return of assets. these are practices that we encourage. i can assure you that we will work tirelessly to ensure the return of assets to tunisia, egypt and libya. regimes across the world should be assured that the european union will do its utmost to discourage corruption and, where it has taken place, to ensure that those who have stolen assets cannot do so with impunity.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 may 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. developing countries lose between $20 billion and $40 billion annually because of crimes such as corruption and embezzlement. unfortunately, only $5 billion of all the assets taken from these countries have been recovered to date. i am glad that europe is at the forefront of the fight against the export of goods stolen by the dictators of the arab spring. these are in fact valuable resources for ensuring a real improvement in their living conditions. i can only hope that the recovery of property stolen by dictators will continue to be considered one of the main points in the international fight against corruption. not only because it discourages politicians from appropriating assets they cannot enjoy, but above all because of the symbolic and ethical value that the recovery, even partial, of assets stolen from state coffers can have on the populations of the countries that are victims of the plundering of their wealth by the ruling elite. europe must fight for the rights of the arab spring countries as a matter of principle and in the name of a healthy partnership, it is right to ask these countries for their cooperation. perhaps, precisely on the subject of controlling migration flows.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the council and the commission on the 2012 report on the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina (2012/2865 ((rsp)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a comprehensive and balanced free trade agreement between the european union and the united states holds all the potential for the development of deeper economic cooperation between the world's largest economies, which account for 30% of world trade. it is a tremendous opportunity for all of us to foster sustainable economic growth and perhaps even employment in europe. it is therefore almost a duty for the european union to pursue the trade negotiations with the united states with seriousness and tenacity, even though it knows that they will be challenging. in fact, limited market access and the many non-tariff barriers that still exist today restrict the full development of trade between the two sides of the atlantic and are particularly harmful to our enterprises, especially small and mediumsized enterprises. the result will, however, have to be a balanced agreement in which the intensification of trade is accompanied by the safeguarding of the values of the european union and of important principles rooted in european consumers, such as the protection of health and food safety. in particular, we expect the european commission to work hard in the future negotiations to ensure that intellectual property rights are strongly protected, particularly - and this is essential - european geographical indications, in order to combat unfair competition and widespread misrepresentation, and thus safeguard quality european agri-food production. we believe it is essential that the commission negotiates this agreement with the united states, also in accordance with the principle of european cultural diversity, which must remain a key factor for our growth and competitiveness. only balanced and comprehensive trade agreements based on the principle of reciprocity can present a real opportunity for growth and development today and in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, agriculture is a central and sensitive point in the negotiations for the trade agreement with the united states, which does not look easy and which we cannot risk at this stage of the negotiations. if, on the one hand, we are committed to defending our principles, first and foremost the precautionary principle, our strict hygiene and health standards and our system for the promotion of quality - and here i am referring to geographical indications - on the other hand, it would be shortsighted not to regard this agreement as a great opportunity for our agriculture and our agri-food products. we must not be defensive and conservative, but rather focus on proactively identifying the potential benefits we can derive from such a wide-ranging liberalisation. if we can remove the tariff and non-tariff barriers to which our products are subject in the united states, there would be considerable growth opportunities for our businesses and increased employment in a vibrant and growing sector such as european agri-food.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to go into negotiations with determination and within a reasonable and certain time frame in order to achieve a high-profile and ambitious agreement. an agreement that is an opportunity for growth and jobs, especially here in europe. it is a transparent and participatory agreement, with the european parliament playing a leading role, and it is also and above all an opportunity to defend, promote and enhance our excellence, our diversity, our production and consumption patterns. i am therefore confident that tomorrow's vote will confirm the vote that we have had in the committee on the exclusion of audiovisual and cultural productions. i am sure that we will go ahead with the discussion and the agreement, especially to stop and put an end to a fraudulent practice which is harming many of our companies on the american market for our producers, particularly in very high-quality sectors which we should be able to defend and protect in the course of this important and significant negotiation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european cultural and audiovisual community appreciates the fact that the moreira report has incorporated into the mandate for the eu-us negotiations the protection and promotion of cultural diversity and the consequent exclusion of audiovisual cultural products and services from the negotiations. unlike the commissioner and the minister, we believe that this line, which the eu has always maintained in the wto and in all bilateral trade negotiations outside and within the european union, should not be abandoned. the inclusion of culture and audiovisual in the negotiations with the usa will bring our cultural industry, already dominated by the usa in audiovisual, especially online, to its knees and will produce further cultural colonization of europe and protectionism "made in usa". the global network operators, google, apple, amazon, follow us law, they charge royalties for european cultural content, they do not pay taxes in europe, they do not invest in european cultural production, but they condition the emergence of new european actors. eu legislation in this area including the definition of cultural goods online is inadequate and we will go into this negotiation with our bare hands. i therefore ask that the exclusion be maintained, as 14 european ministers of culture have also asked the irish presidency to do.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this decision is an act of confidence, an exercise in optimism, and burma, a country which has suffered for decades, deserves it. of course, there is still a tremendous amount of work to be done: many ilo recommendations have finally been met, the opening up to the democratization process has begun, but the rohingya minority continues to suffer discrimination and the accession to the transparency initiative for the mining industry has been announced but not yet effective, while human rights violations are still far from sporadic. however, much has been done: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the transparency of the financial transactions between government and industry for the exploitation of forests, another to improve industrial transparency on environmental and social behaviour, and the publication of guidelines for corporate and social responsibility in the oil and gas sectors. today, the re-inclusion of countries benefiting from the preferential tariff system must become a measure which benefits not so much companies as, above all, the population. this is the effort which requires the serious application of the measures decided upon and also those planned. the commission has a major responsibility in this respect and parliament will not shirk its powers of political direction. this is the country of the white shirts, of the 23 million members of the united party organisations and changing a culture will not be easy. i therefore also appeal to the non-governmental associations, to the burmese political forces and to the media, so that everyone can contribute to an activity that is both monitoring and encouraging. george orwell in his book on burma wrote in this country that the whole life of a white man in burma is a long struggle not to be laughed at. well, let us all try to work so that this important decision does not become, in the aftermath of a dictatorship that is finally losing pieces and in a capitalism that needs to be regulated, a mockery of our values.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am not going to repeat what i said in my rather long introduction, but let me just come back to a couple of issues. david martin raised the question of what kind of trade agreements you would need isds in. obviously you need it when it is an agreement with a third country that does not have a properly-functioning judicial system, where one can have doubts about the rule of law. that of course is not the case, for example, with the negotiations which are probably going to start in the coming months with the united states, where you have a properly-functioning system as well as lawyers who are interested in this kind of dispute settlement, so this is an interesting question to disentangle. what we need – and i think david can agree on this – is a european way to approach this whenever it is in an agreement, whenever we decide to have it. for example, in ceta there are provisions on that – or rather in what we have been discussing up to now, as ceta does not exist yet. for example, there are very clear provisions with respect to transparency. so we have been limiting very clearly the scope of what arbitrators can do. i also gave a number of examples in my introduction on this. i know it all looks very technical, but i agree with a number of speakers who said that in the end all this is also rather political. it is about political choices –– but be assured, honourable members, that whenever we have that kind of clause in a trade agreement, we will make sure that we very clearly define the scope of such a possible arbitration dispute. the second thing i would like to say is this: the fact that investment policy has become an exclusive eu competence means that you now need new legislation on a number of issues which in the past were in the hands of the member states. if not, you cannot apply it at the level of the european union. that goes for isds, and it also applies to the question of who is ultimately responsible when something has to be paid. i can also understand if member states want to defend their interests in such a case, because in the end they can become liable. we have to find a formula within which everyone can take the lead when they are the ultimate responsible entity. on top of that, the commission has to make sure that whatever defence is put into place is also compatible with eu law. i think that is the main reason why there should be what could be seen as an intrusive action into a position taken by a member state whenever it is not compatible with eu law. this is very sensitive and also very technical, which is also demonstrated by the number of people present in parliament at this time. but it is important if we want to put our relations with the member states right.
i have received a request from the competent german authorities to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr alexander alvaro. under article 6 (2) of the regulation, this request is to be referred to the committee on legal affairs. the agenda includes the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on a macro-regional strategy for the alps, by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000016/2013 - b7-0118/2013).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon, article 174, and the financial framework 2007-2013 have given added value to territorial cooperation through a specific macro-regional strategy. the commission has earmarked around eur 2,2 billion for the creation and development of macro-regions for the period 2014-2020. this strategy, which has been successfully applied in the baltic and danube regions, has unfortunately not yet been implemented in the alpine region. the 14 million european citizens living in this area are waiting for political action to finally meet their needs and define their future. beyond regional or national boundaries, these mountain citizens, like myself, share the same difficulties and the same needs: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the programme. these needs unite mountain dwellers more than geographical boundaries do. the macro-regional strategy is therefore the instrument for coordinating existing community policies and for using the funds available for concrete projects. this is done through the involvement of the different levels of government, respecting the principle of subsidiarity and building on previous experience and best practices. the framework document should be the alpine convention and i would like to recall that our parliament had already adopted by a large majority, on 22 september 2010, a resolution on a european strategy for the development of mountain regions, with a view to improving territorial and social cohesion throughout europe. i would like to stress how important it is to listen to the voice of the citizens of the alpine regions in order to set up a bottom-up policy across the regions. this policy of listening to the local community is indispensable to meet the real and most immediate needs of the population, but above all to raise the political awareness of our fellow citizens. increasingly, our young people are being asked to stay in the mountains, to take care of the environment and the forests, to practice agriculture which is difficult and expensive, to endure long and arduous transport and additional costs for businesses. our society asks a lot of the mountain people, but it forgets the duty to guarantee the same rights and the same quality of life as all other european citizens. it is three years since we voted the resolution on the mountain which was shared by all the political groups and european mountain organisations, including euromontana, and nothing has been done. i therefore ask the commission to draw up as soon as possible a specific action plan to create an alpine macro-region, finally implementing the provisions of article 174 of the lisbon treaty.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe has large regions which could reasonably solve their problems together, because the challenges are common and because common solutions work better than isolated ones. this is why strategies for such macro-regions certainly make sense. the alps are such a region par excellence. they cover at least five member states of the european union and two non-member countries, so a total of at least seven countries. the mountain - as has been said by several previous speakers - has common challenges in production, for example, especially in the production of agricultural products; the alps have always been, for thousands of years, an important route from the south to the north. but it is also a question of protecting the environment, of protecting people from natural disasters and the forces of nature, which are more pronounced in the mountains than in the plains. it also concerns the protection of resources, such as the protection and provision of clean drinking water, which will become an increasingly important issue, not only in the alps but in europe as a whole. the main concern is the preservation of the habitat, which is also becoming a recreational and tourist area. this also creates pressure to settle. it has also been said that we are not starting from scratch here. there is cooperation in the alps that has been developed over decades, be it in the arge alp, the alpine convention, but also within existing regional development programmes such as alpine space, which has developed very well in the past periods of european union funding. i am also convinced that a macro strategy for the alps must deal with the alps, i.e. the challenges of the mountains, and not with the challenges of the pedo-alpine areas. i'm not saying that they're not important, but they're two different things that you can't mix. we should find a strategy that is a strategy for the people who live in the alpine areas. this is why an alpine strategy cannot be played out between town and country. there are cities within the alps, of course. but a macro strategy for the alps cannot be a strategy for munich, milan or lyon. we'd miss the target with that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after years, or rather decades, of cooperation between the various regions and territories, with all the living things in the regions of the alps, we are now faced with the opportunity to take a step forward and thus to give a concrete start to a new strategy for this mountain area, which is certainly made up of constraints, sometimes of limitations, but it is made up of great environmental specificities to be safeguarded and of great economic potential to be developed. after the baltic, the danube, the next adriatic-ionian, i believe that this entity, this reality, can also find a point of development. we support it fully. i would like to stress a few points, however, in order to keep up with the debate that has taken place here and also to avoid misunderstandings that may arise at national level. first of all: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly: i agree with those who say that we must listen to the territories, the people, and make them live from below, but in meeting with the other institutional levels, within an existing framework, we must bring this project to life from below, the actors who live it, who live the problems and can make proposals. thirdly: this is an aggregation that is being born, but it is not an institutional entity, it is an aggregation that will have the cooperation of the institutional levels, but you must not give space because only in bad faith can you do it to those who will say that something new has been born, perhaps detached or in contrast with the existing institutional levels; the evidence is that the proposal will come from italy, from france, even from the national levels, so no to instrumentalizations. fourth and final point: the territory, the demarcation: i shall vote against paragraph 5 because i think that too narrow a delimitation prevents the synergies of a wide-ranging project from being grasped. there must be the premontano territory and perhaps also the collaboration with the cities which are not always a point of oppression, they can perhaps be levels that interface with the territorial ones therefore a project even wider than the narrowness of the strictly alpine territory. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to raise a few objections to mr toia. my experience as a local administrator for five years in a province entirely in the mountains has brought me face to face with the concrete reality that is experienced not only by the citizen but also by the local administrators. i find it difficult to reconcile a policy specifically for the alps and for mountain people with the needs of the large cities. mr dorfmann is right: it is impossible to reconcile the needs of milan with the needs of an alpine area, in this case the italian alpine area. we must not necessarily disagree, but we cannot avoid a specific policy for the mountains. i'd like a comment from you.
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that if we are to draw up a strategy for the alpine macro-region, we must do something that is useful to the territories and specific features of the mountains, to the economy, the environment, tourism, transport and energy. so the priority is certainly there, in the interests of mountain development. if this means extending the involvement of the subjects and the territory a bit, i see nothing in contrast, it will be up to the ability - also of the mountain territory - of those who will lead these processes not to be instrumentalized but to be captured by the synergy. i would also like to say that the narrow mountain, the narrow alpine territory, is not the right thing to do. how much more should be added will be decided by the commission.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there was a book entitled 'the last ones are up there', and that was the title of these pages devoted to the people who still persist in living in the alpine areas, a cultural, landscape and historical world which is of inestimable value to europe and which is under threat. although the alps belong to many countries, they are in fact a kind of homeland for their inhabitants, the homeland of the mountain people. this applies to men with their linguistic and professional specificities also applies to the management of protected areas flora and fauna know no borders. they are calling for uniform protection, starting with national parks, reserved areas and contiguous areas between neighbouring countries. the same is true of the alpine glaciers, which are threatened and are shrinking at an alarming rate. monitoring and measures to combat climate change only make sense if they are common. yet the alps are even the subject of a territorial dispute between italy and france over the ownership, so to speak, of the summit of mont blanc. it is not just a symbolic problem, it is a serious problem because, as the italian civil protection has denounced, who, in the event of devastating downstream flows, has the responsibility to intervene? i have brought the european flag to the summit of mont blanc, but in the meantime there is still no real solution to this conflict. the european alpine strategy is the beginning of a more ambitious response to give a political vision to the alpine arc and to set an example for other mountain regions, starting with some essential points, such as the integrated and cross-border use of european funds, the harmonization of some common services for the alpine populations, the possibilities of having direct benefits for the exploitation of energy sources for the benefit of the populations. i am a volunteer in mountain rescue, and this is an example of something that works, organized on separate national bases but which is, in fact, integrated and always ready for joint action. it could be a stimulus for the alpine strategy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used consistently, that the environment is sustainable, that a code is adopted for the protection of the architectural heritage of the alps, which is in danger of disappearing, and that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are integrated, in which the mountains have much to offer. i have no doubt, it is important to me that the strategy is applied to the alps, to the mountain areas, otherwise it will be another double and words will be followed by few deeds. of course, europe is rich in mountains, and this strategy can be used to set many examples, including the carpathians, the apennines, the pyrenees, scotland, and elsewhere. mountains are a force for tenacity which i believe can be one of the best parts of the european soul. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not wish to contradict mr rinaldi, because i agree with what he said. i wanted to ask your opinion. so a specific policy for the alpine area - and hence for the mountain - cannot, in the end, also for him, disregard the principle of bottom-up and subsidiarity? are we agreed on that?
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that mountain communities are an extraordinary example of territorial organization and of how communities have, within themselves and also in their contiguous relations, between valley and valley, between village and village, a principle of subsidiarity which they respect and which they have self-codified for centuries. it is impossible to think of a strategy for the mountain that is brought down from above, it will never work, neither in italy nor in austria nor in france nor anywhere else, so of course we need the principle of subsidiarity, but be careful that the principle of subsidiarity does not become another scam and then do nothing. the challenge of the mountains must be that of a truly united strategy. it is an alpine arc, it must remain an alpine arc with its environmental, cultural and economic integrity, and i believe that we will have no problem in sharing our efforts in this respect.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i think it is a rather general condemnation, mr president, when you say that people in the alps have destroyed their habitat. i think that the people who work in the alps are very enthusiastic about maintaining their habitat and maintaining their habitat. so i'd like you to be a little bit more specific.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the proposal for this strategy is extremely timely at this time. the categorical imperative of this phase of the crisis is to optimise, to invest - and well - to create efficiency, to eliminate pockets of dispersion and waste, and i believe that macro-regional strategies are an excellent answer to this indication of the way forward, because the macro-regional strategy is nothing more than a management model, nothing more than an indication of political design. we are well aware that the macro-regional strategy is based on the principle of the so-called 'three no's': i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. which means there's nothing extra, but there's just a trail to operate better, to spend better, to invest better. the alpine strategy aims to put the value, the wealth and the treasure of the alps at the centre of a strategic and political plan, in a logic of openness and not closure, not of creating an isolated world but of opening it up in a logic of integrated development. this is also the answer to the objections, to the proposal to delete paragraph 5. paragraph 5 contains only one indication: let's lock ourselves in and take refuge on the mountain. that's not the mechanism, it's not that there are new resources that are being taken out of the mountain and given to others. with this strategy you look at the large area, you try to integrate in such a way as to put in order those that are the values of the mountain, leaving it central with respect to the design with the surrounding areas. i would ask the house to consider that at this stage and with this resolution we are only trying to improve the method of management in order to live in an enlarged community that is more harmonious and more compatible with its neighbours.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that the macro-regional strategy is important and that the union has made the right choice, but we must understand each other. the alps are a remarkable asset to this part of the world, in many ways: for what they represent in our history, for the opportunities they still give us to improve the quality of life. but if the idea of the alpine macro-region is transformed into a set of tools for the economies that lie downstream and upstream of the alps, its nature changes and the alps become a nuisance. the problem cannot be seen simply as the speed with which these natural barriers are being crossed, to the advantage of the economies in the mediterranean or those in northern europe. there are specific problems concerning the conditions existing in the alps today and for the people living in the alps. these problems must be given the highest priority over everything else.
member of the commission. − madam president, i have listened with a great deal of attention to all the speakers and, as you know, i am replacing commissioner hahn. i will transmit all your remarks to him, and i would like to thank mrs hübner for the oral question that she tabled together with her colleagues. i believe the discussion showed very clearly the strong commitment of many of you to working further on closer cooperation within the alpine area, and the commission very much appreciates the ongoing activities. as i said in my introductory remarks, we are sure that evaluation of the existing macro-regional strategies will contribute in a very positive way to the current discussion about new macro-regional concepts. so i imagine we will have to come back to this after the report that will be ready by next month.
i have received four motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 115 (5) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 may 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i urge the european commission to as requested by the governors of the alpine regions put the 'european macro-regional strategy for the alps' on the european agenda, not just for the alpine region but for the wider cte alpine space programme. the economic and social specificity of the problems, but also of the aspirations and development prospects of the alpine macro-region is obvious to all and must therefore be taken into account. the protection and enhancement of the unique ethnic and cultural heritage of the alpine peoples: it is the sacred symbols like the "sun of the alps", carved on the alpine rocks by our ancestors, to remind us of it!
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on working conditions and health and safety standards following the recent factory fires and building collapse in bangladesh (2013/2368 ((rsp)).
before we continue the debate, i would like to welcome a delegation from the foreign affairs committee of the mexican parliament, led by senator gabriela cuevas. the delegation is visiting several european institutions and today it took part in an exchange of views with members of parliament's foreign affairs committee. i would like to congratulate, also on your behalf, ladies and gentlemen, on this visit by representatives of the parliament of mexico, which is an important partner of the european union and a strong economic player on the global scene.
mr president, commissioner, i too join in the condolences to the families of the victims of this terrible accident in the textile factories in bangladesh. i regret the precarious working conditions of all these people and the lack of application of international safety standards and conventions which are the cause of this accident, and i also want to denounce the impunity of some of the owners of these factories, who are responsible for the deplorable conditions of the facilities. as the european union is the main receiving market for textile products made in bangladesh, we must act to prevent this from happening again. we must therefore use all the means at our disposal, including making the free access of their products to the european market conditional on compliance with international conventions on human and labour rights. and in this connection i welcome the fact that some of these companies have already acceded to the agreement on safety and fire protection and to the proposal of the government of bangladesh to reform the provisions of its labour legislation. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. we - the european union - must remain proactive in defending human rights and in meeting the criteria of corporate social responsibility. i therefore believe that we must promote informed and responsible consumption, labelling which makes it clear which factories are actually meeting all these criteria. i also welcome the proposals which have been put forward by the commission and which i hope will be vigorously implemented.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what happened at rana plaza is a largely predictable tragedy, and it is happening with the indifference of most of the rich countries, which are aware of the existence of this condition of those who produce with the sole aim of keeping costs down, without regard to the conditions affecting the rights of the people who are engaged in that activity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. we have the means to do so, if we simply insert into trade agreements a clause which obliges countries and companies operating in those countries to respect the basic conditions which apply to people in employment. it is enough to promote sanctions against european companies which do not comply with the directives of the international labour organisation. we are not a separate part of the rest of the world, we are the main users and for this reason we also have a greater moral duty than anyone else.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this regulation introduces provisions which will make it easier for owners to move their pets between member states and reduce animal health risks. the new rules will also put a stop to those who fraudulently trade in pets, particularly dogs and cats. among the main changes, the regulation provides that the microchip to ensure the protection of animals is to be applied only by a veterinarian or a qualified person and that blank documents are to be defined only by veterinarians, in order to avoid falsification of documents. but there are also provisions which, if not properly controlled, could create problems, such as the exemptions for those who want to move more than five animals and those on rabies vaccination and owners' self-certifications. more could certainly be done, but a uniform system of registration compatible and accessible in all member states is still lacking. it will be essential to keep an eye on member states by constantly monitoring the application of these new rules to prevent fraud and abuse.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial policy'. the text calls for the postponement of the date of application of the new customs code which was to enter into force on 24 june 2013. i felt i had to support this request because the code in question has been profoundly amended and the trilogues between the commission, the council and parliament are still in progress.
in writing. - i am very sorry that parliament has postponed the date of application of the new customs code, on which i am draftsman of the opinion of the inta committee. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the common agricultural policy. there can be no single market for consumers and businesses until the customs codes of the various european countries are uniform. it is also known from a report by the commission that some ports in northern europe have become a soft spot for the entry of goods which are not sufficiently controlled. harmonising customs legislation is essential to ensure consumer safety and fair and transparent trade in the member states. the code was due to enter into force on 24 june 2013, a date which is already far from expectations and the further delay will cause further inconvenience to the union, italian customs and operators in the sector, already penalised by the lack of harmonised rules.
in writing. − in order to promote a dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and growth while ensuring a uniform level of control of goods, it is necessary to adopt modern and simple customs rules, based on systems that are up to date, where controls are finally harmonised. for these reasons i voted in favour of mr le grip's text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of restoring access to the generalized tariff preferences for myanmar/burma, given the great efforts made in recent years to respect human and fundamental rights. this vote is intended to be an encouragement. there is still a long way to go, but i hope that the reintroduction of trade preferences for that country will contribute to a lasting peace and to a further step towards more appropriate levels of democracy.
in writing. - many analysts believe that trade policy has always been the eu's real foreign policy. it is certainly better than a foreign policy with the help of an army, but it is not less damaging, since for years we have suspended a trade treaty that could have helped myanmar's development, waving it as a prize in case of democratization and the end of the exploitation of child labour. the case of aung san suu kyi and her nobel peace prize, preceded by the sakharov prize awarded by the eu, have allowed the progress made by the burmese administration to be given media prominence, and i am therefore in favour of restoring the existing instruments to help myanmar to emerge from this situation of poverty.
in writing. the eu is also calling for the release of aung san suu kyi and the holding of free elections, and for the repeal of the 1997 eu regulation which revoked myanmar's access to the gsp. it also highlights the country's fight against forced labour. however, despite the changes in the façade, burma remains a regime with a high rate of exploited children. in economic terms, there is no doubt that the entry of burmese rice into europe at zero duty is seriously damaging the economy. i therefore vote against.
in writing. − in a legal framework which is changing as a result of new treaties and new european agreements, there should be no shadow areas, especially where the consequences may be the cause of further litigation. in this particular case, i voted in favour of this report because i think that mr zalewski has done a very good job of filling in the gap in the lack of specific legislation on investor-state disputes, as the lisbon treaty has shifted the competence for foreign direct investment from the member states to the eu. i particularly appreciated the work done, and in fact already on a good basis, by the european commission in favour of legal certainty and clarity of rules.
in writing. − the eu is party to an agreement providing for the possibility of resolving investor-state disputes of a financial nature (see, for example, the energy charter treaty). the commission considers that, given the existence of any disputes, the responsibility lies with the controller and the eu only if the action of the member state is provided for by community law. it is a very controversial subject, which has problems with the transfer of such sensitive competence to the exclusive sphere of competence of the eu. we must wait for the council's opinion on this. however, i would like to vote in favour of the commission's report as an example of a balanced approach to the subject.
in writing. − since 2003, the movement of pet animals has been governed by regulation (ec) no 998/2003 and its subsequent amendments. the main objective of the commission proposal, which repeals and replaces this regulation, remains unchanged in relation to the changes which have taken place over the years: the protection of public and animal health. in general, while acknowledging the rapporteur's commitment to facilitating pet owners' movements with their animals within the european union or to third countries, it is important that, with reference to the specific requirement to present the animal's identification documents during transport, the report should have been enriched with the possibility of presenting a collective document rather than just an individual one. the latter is a particularly onerous animal identification document, especially in the case of the transport of large numbers of animals for sporting purposes or for exhibitions or competitions. in my view, in the case of the transport of thousands of animals - for which there are already regular health checks - individual identification documents are not only onerous but also worthless. this restriction contributes to creating real difficulties for citizens wishing to participate in certain events requiring travel between different member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the non-commercial transport of pet animals within the eu, because although it has been regulated since 2003, the situation has changed considerably. the commission and the member states have successfully conducted anti-rabies campaigns which have resulted in rabies being considered as extinct in principle in many parts of the union, although constant monitoring is still necessary. rabies, or the absence of rabies, has been the main, though not the only, reason for maintaining a special transitional regime for the movement of animals within the territory of certain member states. the expiry of another transitional regime under article 4 (1) (tattooing or transponder marking) is another good reason to revise the current regulation no 998/2003. the main objective of the regulation is to make it easier for pet owners to transport their pets across the eu, while taking all the necessary precautions and complying with safety rules.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this regulation because i agree with the comments which have been considered. i think that some good arguments have been made. i fully agree with the need to ensure safety against health risks in order to protect both the health of citizens and the health of animals themselves. i think that, as regards the vaccination of pets, more clarity should be given to the rules to avoid confusion in the application by veterinarians and pet owners. i fully agree with the solutions suggested. however, as regards fraudulently disguised commercial movements of pet animals, such as movements of a non-commercial nature and the maximum number of animals that may be travelled for any competition or sporting event, clearer and more concrete rules should be identified in order to avoid fraudulent actions and at the same time protect those competitions or exhibitions or sporting events. i also agree to facilitate the identification of the animal concerned with a database to protect documents from possible falsification.
in writing. - millions of europeans own pets and increasingly they are moving with their owners between the different countries of the union. it is therefore understandable that there should be clear and simple rules, taking account of the health of people and animals, without creating too many bureaucratic obstacles for those who wish to travel with their pet. there is one phenomenon, however, which is rightly emphasized in the report: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal is transported safely and without any risk to the public. these are often very young puppies, taken too soon from their mothers' care and attention: it is right that europe should also intervene in this area, to block trade which often sees the eastern countries as suppliers and which unfortunately has italy as one of its main destinations.
in writing. − it is the task of the union to identify an effective transitional regime for the movement of pet animals between different member states, whether for commercial purposes or for travel by pets. i have already had occasion in the past to urge the commission with several parliamentary questions on the shortcomings of the current directive as regards the transport by rail or by air of our most loyal friends. many puppies die during transportation, and many are forced to move around in cramped, unsanitary, and airless cages. there is also a great deal of illegal transport and the trading of puppies between the different member states. i am therefore in favour of a regulation to protect animals and their owners throughout the union. there is one thing missing from the rapporteur's text: the possibility of having a database regulating and recording movements of animals between member states and third countries.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of animals by road. from now on it will be easier to take animals abroad, but the health measures will be stricter. today there are 64 million cats and 66 million dogs in the european union: practically one in four households has a pet. in the future, travelling with animals in the eu will require fewer administrative hassles: the rules have been relaxed and this will have a direct positive impact on citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on health rules governing trade in dogs, cats and ferrets. i believe that both animals and humans must be protected before transport and that this can only be done by appropriate clinical examinations and by maintaining a high level of health control. it is important, in my view, that animals are in good health before they travel, and this is only possible with a veterinarian authorized by the competent authority. as regards the timing, i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to move the clinical inspection of the animal from 24 hours to 48 hours before transport, since this also protects the work of the competent health authorities, helping them to reduce the workload and making them perform their profession in a safer and more correct way.
in writing. - european monetary policy is widely held to be responsible for the current stagnation in many eu countries. i do not agree with that, but as there is no such thing as black and white, i think that there have been some mistakes here too, and the relevance of these mistakes should be discussed with scientific data. i voted in favour of this resolution because it identifies some key points in the legislation on economic and monetary union and seeks to set the tone for the future. giving parliament its role, making timely communications, better coordinating ex ante plans for major economic policy reforms, introducing a convergence and competitiveness instrument - all these seem mundane recommendations, but their implications, if properly implemented, are precisely what makes the difference between good and bad policy, between decisions taken with the best of intentions but the mind elsewhere and those taken with care, diligence and competence. i thank my colleagues on the econ committee for their valuable contribution.
in writing. - i am very concerned about the path the european union is taking in the economic and monetary spheres: i wonder, for example, what exactly this ex ante coordination of member states' policies entails. i would like to know who will be responsible for this coordination: the commission's proposal is to be a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, a new instrument for the european union, and a new instrument for the european union, which is to be established by the treaty of rome. or will it end up, as always, with berlin deciding the policies of the eurozone? both of these perspectives are not very comforting. i would also like to understand what this instrument of convergence and competitiveness proposed by the commission is: i would not like this to be another way for brussels to blackmail countries in difficulty and force them to make absurd choices with devastating consequences, as has happened in cyprus and greece, for example. i am therefore opposed to continuing in this way: the european union's monetary and economic policy should be reviewed, leaving more room for the member states and less for the bureaucratic centralism of brussels and the german selfishness of berlin.
in writing. − the new proposals to strengthen economic and monetary union put forward by the european commission do not yet have an adequate level of democratic scrutiny and additional instruments are needed to facilitate reforms and address social problems. the new governance will only have legitimacy if decisions are taken democratically and greater involvement of national parliaments will be needed, particularly when their governments are drawing up plans for economic reforms.
in writing. − i strongly support this resolution, because it calls on all the actors involved in the syrian crisis to respect international humanitarian law. we must make sure that those responsible for the widespread and gross human rights violations committed in syria over the past 24 months will be held accountable. the humanitarian situation in syria is worsening every day, and i believe that any further militarisation of the conflict can only bring greater suffering to the syrian people and the region as a whole. the un independent international commission of inquiry on syria observed that more brutal tactics and new military capabilities have been employed in recent months by both sides of the conflict. the eu should take a leading role in putting an end to the arms flow in the country and should also continue to provide extensive assistance to the syrian refugees.
in writing. - each of us in the european parliament is seriously concerned about the situation in syria. we believe that we represent well the feeling that all italian citizens feel in the face of what the international media reports. however, even if we wanted to, we could not be decisive, given the lack of official positions: we could not take sides because it is not clear who the parties are, and international law does not allow us to do so because it is an unwarranted interference in the affairs of other sovereign states, and the eu does not have the legal and military tools to do so. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is one of the few steps we can take to protect the most vulnerable, those who flee that situation and take refuge in neighbouring countries. italy has allocated important resources to them, and the european parliament wants to support those who are trying to do good. hoping that between saying and doing there is much less than the sea.
in writing. the european union must remain vigilant in respecting human rights in syria and support a political solution to the conflict before it spreads to neighbouring countries with disastrous consequences. those responsible for the widespread, systematic and serious violations of human rights in syria over the past 24 months cannot get away with it and that is why the international criminal court must intervene.
in writing. − this resolution is the result of a strong political initiative led by the socialist group. the return of misappropriated assets, stolen by former dictators and their regimes, to arab spring countries in transition is a moral and legal imperative and is also a highly sensitive issue in the eu’s relations with its southern neighbourhood. the restitution of frozen assets is, over and above its economic significance, a strong message against the impunity for corruption and money laundering enjoyed so far by unscrupulous political leaders. egypt, libya and tunisia have made considerable efforts aimed at ensuring that these assets are repatriated but, so far, few concrete results have been achieved in this context. for this reason, with this text we ask for an eu mechanism composed of a team of national and international investigators, prosecutors, lawyers and other experts to be established without delay with the aim of providing legal and technical advice and assistance to arab spring countries in the process of asset recovery. i believe that this effort will be one of the most significant contributions by the eu to the consolidation of democratic transition in these three crucial countries.
in writing. - for us europeans, the transition from dictatorship to democracy, wherever it occurs, is always good news. in this sense, despite its national specificities and its not yet fully understood framework, the arab spring represents a happy moment for the southern shore of the mediterranean. however, a state without a strong democratic tradition, without legitimate and representative institutions well established, especially in the culture of the population, risks being an easy prey to regressive temptations. in order to get over this phase quickly, a lot of resources are needed, and it is sacrosanct that, before squeezing the already impoverished citizens from regimes that have not allowed great enrichment, the assets that the dictators have illegitimately seized are recovered. the eu, which has no power in this area, is calling on the member states to work towards this objective, which is so much to be shared that i did not hesitate for a moment to vote in favour.
in writing. - with regard to the report on the recovery of assets from the arab spring countries in transition, i am in favour of eu intervention in the form of a technical task force to provide assistance and support to countries in difficulty and believe that such intervention can be an immediate solution. however, i think it is necessary to identify the needs of the countries in order to be able to provide technical and training assistance to help achieve a result that can help them to intervene in a productive way with the competent institutions, in order to obtain all the instruments that will allow them to finally succeed in completing democratic development. the return to the peoples of the goods stolen from dictatorships should be a political priority of the union in order to safeguard and strengthen the network of cooperation created with the neighbouring countries of the mediterranean area and their recovery would bring important resources which would enable these countries to make concrete investments to lift large parts of their populations out of poverty, as well as to promote growth in the cultural, infrastructural and socio-health fields, thus making a great step towards new economic development.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it clearly highlights the need for consistent commitment by the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina in order to accelerate the country’s progress towards eu membership. from this point of view, constitutional reform remains the key to the transformation of bih into a fully functional democracy. with this resolution we stress too that corruption continues to seriously hamper socio-economic and political development in the country. for this reason we ask all competent authorities to ensure that an independent and effective judicial system is established and to develop a strategy of integration with the eu.
in writing. the following proposal is aimed at the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina towards its accession to the european union. in my view, the main negative points on which progress is still needed are the corruption that is holding back socioeconomic and political development and the fact that the institutions at all levels are not yet functioning in a way that will advance the country in the process of european integration. i would like to stress the seriousness of the lack of protection for women both at work and at home. i welcome the draft programme for victims of rape, sexual abuse and torture during the war and the progress made in the general framework for education. i agree with the recognition of bosnia-herzegovina's role in regional cooperation and in the work done to conclude the local cross-border agreement, which is useful for the movement of citizens in the border areas. i hope that the eu will build useful infrastructure for future border inspection posts and that it will come closer to croatia in order to bring bosnia-herzegovina closer to the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the call to the council to set a date for the start of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia without further delay. i think it is regrettable that, for the fourth consecutive year, the european council decided not to open negotiations despite the commission’s positive recommendation in this respect. this continuous postponement is increasing frustration about the eu integration process among the country’s public opinion and risks exacerbating domestic problems and internal tension. eu accession is fundamental to the long-term stability of the country and good inter-ethnic relations and i believe that all candidate and potential candidate countries should be treated according to their own merits in the integration process. consequently, all the bilateral issues should not represent an obstacle to the official opening of accession negotiations, although they should be solved before the end of the accession process.
in writing. − with regard to the report, i believe that the country is doing a very good job in relations with neighbouring countries, although in the area of inter-ethnic relations there is a need for more political dialogue. the efforts made to improve the transparency and efficiency of the judicial system, to strengthen the legal framework against corruption and to consolidate the legal framework for juvenile justice are positive. the work done to improve the transport, energy and telecommunications networks, which are crucial for eventual eu membership, deserves praise. on economic issues, the unemployment rate among young people is high but i am confident that through youth employment plans and the ilo's decent work programme this can be greatly reduced also because young people today are a very important resource for our future. i agree with the views expressed in the resolution because i believe that macedonia has done a very good job and has every chance of joining the european union one day once it decides to open accession negotiations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i am confident that a comprehensive transatlantic trade and investment partnership, once fully implemented, could bring significant economic gains for both the eu and the us. in light of the ongoing economic crisis, the high level of public debt, the high unemployment rates and modest growth projections on both sides of the atlantic, it is crucial for the eu and the us to develop a truly integrated transatlantic market, in order to maximise the creation of new jobs and stimulate strong and balanced growth potential.
in writing. the united states and the european union, which currently account for more than half of the world's trade, have very similar economic problems and, for better or worse, convergent prospects. i therefore agree with the conclusions of the high level working group which suggested that we should negotiate a trade and investment agreement to tackle together problems which we would certainly not be able to solve alone. it is therefore normal that, in view of the existing trade flows and the established tradition, the focus should be on highly specialised issues (market access, non-tariff barriers and other regulatory provisions, including those relating to intellectual property rights). the epp group and i have paid great attention to audiovisual services: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we asked for the exclusion of these services and, once that was granted, i was happy to vote in favour of the negotiating mandate.
in writing. - i thank the committee on international trade for its work in identifying the best way forward on the matter under vote today. a trade and investment agreement between the european union and the united states would strengthen the link between the two political systems. such an agreement offers the possibility of developing a common strategy in several key areas and thus of exerting even greater influence within the major international trade bodies, first and foremost the wto. trade between the two systems continues to grow in terms of trade in goods and services and in foreign direct investment. from the european point of view, the aim is to exploit, through future negotiations, the untapped potential of this market in order to encourage job creation and open up new horizons for european enterprises. in this context, it is equally vital that future discussions on this issue do not result in an 'adaptation' of european legislation. the comparison and respect for the fundamental principles of the union must be an essential starting point for reaching a really effective agreement for both sides. i hope that parliament will be kept informed of the progress of the negotiations.
in writing. the united states is the european union's most important trading partner, with impressive numbers: on average, more than two billion euros worth of goods and services are traded between these two economies every day, accounting for more than a quarter of world trade. the deep interdependence between us and our partners across the atlantic is thus well understood, and it is certainly useful, perhaps necessary, to deepen and develop our economic and trade relations, but with precise guarantees. i am for example pleased that a derogation from the free trade agreement is being requested for the audiovisual sector: it is in this plenary that we have discussed the importance of defending european products, which without adequate protection would be 'swallowed up' in one fell swoop by the much more developed american industry. with the right precautions, the free trade agreement with the united states could lead to new development and new opportunities for european industry: the greatest dangers to us come from the east, and an agreement with the united states could help us to overcome them or at least to limit them.
in writing. the european parliament needs to be kept informed of the negotiations with the united states on what could become the world's largest free trade area. an ambitious and comprehensive agreement would give a great boost at low cost to our economies, our businesses and our citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that it is extremely important to increase cooperation on trade between the eu and the usa in order to facilitate the marketing of the products of our companies and thus the economic recovery. i believe that new negotiations are now indispensable in order to reach agreements that will strengthen the trade networks between the two parties, including a comprehensive agreement on trade and investment, bilateral sectoral agreements and harmonization of regulations in order to avoid inconveniences such as the recent case where 80% of italian extra virgin olive oil destined for sale on the us market was blocked at the us ports because of a pesticide present in minimal quantities, the use of which is permitted in the eu, is permitted in some american crops for the production of maize oil and peanut oil but is absolutely not allowed in the usa for extra virgin olive oil. i believe it is our duty to facilitate the marketing of products in all sectors, thus helping the economies of our countries, given the emergence of new players in the world economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution acknowledges the existence of an alpine macro-region. with the double vote in the house, i call it a double vote because on the one hand the house does not want to limit the alpine macro-regional area to the mountain area alone, but in the so-called 'internationality' of this area, an easy synergy between the economies of the plain and the mountain economies is understood, with a view to easy integration. attention is also being paid to a wider area, the plain area. so, in the economic homogeneity of this transnational alpine area, the house has today raised the question by giving the utmost dignity to an area which can actually be an engine for the economy of our europe, an area which will have the attention of the european parliament and the european community as much as what has been done for the danube area and others.
in writing. - if europe, having reconsidered its current institutional and geographical structure, is to offer the member states a concrete 'exit strategy' from the crisis, two guiding principles must be promoted. firstly, governance without government. dialogue in europe must no longer take place between nation states, but between representatives of macro-regions, euroregions and other forms of cross-border cooperation, where affinities in terms of space and culture predominate and where there is a shared need, problem and objective which can be solved and/or achieved through a synergistic and therefore more efficient use of available resources. review the criteria for the functioning of the multi-level governance, mlg. it will have to be re-founded on a more authentic idea of 'democracy of proximity', that is, through the real involvement of new actors representing the macro-regions and all those forms of territorial and cross-border cooperation that are the protagonists of the new european democracy, reformed from below.
in writing. − mountain regions have similar problems and it is worth working together to come up with common initiatives. in other areas of the european territory, macro-regional strategies are already in place, and it is good that the alps, given the large number of regions and states involved, are also considered for a joint initiative. my group has insisted that this strategy should not only take into account mountain areas but also the adjacent lowlands, and i am thinking in particular of the lombard foothills and their high industrial productivity, as well as piedmont, which bears the same name for its essential mountain characteristics. it is good to use the framework of the european union to bring the presidents of the alpine regions, whether french, italian, austrian or slovenian, together to deal with the environmental and economic problems of this fantastic ecosystem.
in writing. − the alpine regions are considered a prosperous area, with thriving metropolitan areas, a high-class tourist industry and a high level of general socioeconomic development. these regions are often faced with a number of challenges due to their particular geographical context, such as the increasing pressure on small and isolated urban areas, environmental problems also due to climate change and demographic and economic polarisation. the very nature of the problems in these areas requires coordinated action to be able to act effectively to seize opportunities and address challenges. the treaty on the functioning of the eu itself, with the provisions of article 174, guarantees special attention to rural areas and mountain regions, highlighting the need to promote the harmonious development of the different regions of the eu, including those in the alpine area. in fact, these regions are endeavouring to promote at the same time the many projects which concern the entire alpine arc, seeking to exploit the full potential of its geographical specificities. territorial cooperation is one of the european union's priorities, which provides funding for projects that promote dialogue between cultures, enhance diversity and find common ground. it would be appropriate to include this question in the next european council agenda.
in writing. − the alps are the heart of europe and their economic potential could be profitably expressed through the development of the macro-region strategy. it would help to strengthen the role of the various local levels in the implementation of eu policies and policies for the promotion of territorial cooperation in the countries and regions concerned. considering that the alps are a mountain range of european and international interest, with natural areas affected by climate change, it would be useful to promote this strategy in order to encourage greater cooperation, exploiting the existing networks between the various adjacent states, aiming to solve existing problems and promoting development through a better and shared use of available resources. i believe that this strategy can contribute to the implementation of concrete joint projects aimed, also through the european regional development fund (erdf), at promoting a policy of socioeconomic cohesion, eliminating imbalances between the different areas of the macro-region and defending the challenges of environmental protection.
in writing. − i voted for this report because what occurred in bangladesh on 24 april 2013 at the rana plaza is inacceptable. over 1 000 people died and 2 500 were injured on account of the complete lack of minimal safety measures, the illegal building construction and the lack of workers’ rights to defend their own interests. this is only the latest episode in the tragedies happening in the textile factories in this country. with this resolution, we call on the bangladeshi authorities to act immediately to ensure that factories across the country comply with international labour standards and with the ilo conventions. the european market is the largest export destination for bangladeshi apparel and textile products and for this reason the commission should actively promote mandatory responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, with a special focus on ensuring strict compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular international standards and rules in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment.
in writing. - it is completely useless for the european parliament to "engage" with these continuous resolutions: i said this in january when we voted on a resolution on the continuing fires in the textile factories in bangladesh, and i say it again now, a few months later, with thousands of new "working deaths" in these countries. on 24 april, more than 1,100 people died and some 2,500 were injured in the collapse of a clothing factory in the rana plaza building in dhaka, in what was the worst industrial disaster in the history of the world's clothing industry. and in this tragedy europe has its responsibilities: the european union itself is to blame for this, because its trade policy is in fact encouraging these practices, which lead to the closure of companies in our countries and to similar tragedies elsewhere. in addition to commemorating these victims properly, the eu should rethink its trade policy completely, for example by making it mandatory to comply with occupational safety obligations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of this house to a very serious event which has struck italy, my country, but above all, the city in which my father, barcelona pozzo di gotto, was born and died, is crying today. in one hour, the state funeral will be held in rome for captain giuseppe la rosa, who died a hero in afghanistan in an attempt to bring democracy and freedom to that country. captain la rosa died, jumping on a bomb that had been thrown inside a lynx and by dying he saved the lives of his comrades. i would like this plenary to honour captain la rosa and remember his sacrifice and to rally around his family and the city of barcelona pozzo di gotto.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to remind you that the efd group has brought an action against this measure, which i have lodged and which i have also formally notified to the presidency, for the absolute nullity of the measure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i refer to the question of croatia's accession and the question of financing: la via said that when you invite someone to lunch, you don't give them leftovers, etc. but i didn't think that when you joined it was an invitation to lunch, i know that usually when you join an association, a club, etc., you pay the membership fee, not that it's a charge for those who are already there. so i completely disagree with what has been said so far and i think that anyone who wants to enter must pay their own expenses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just to clarify a point for mr speroni. first, the agreement between the three institutions, signed jointly when the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework was adopted, explicitly provides that in the event of enlargement, it will be financed from fresh resources. secondly, two thirds or more of amending budget no 1 is being paid by croatia, so croatia is putting in fresh money, obviously to finance part of the activities. but there is a share that must be put into community resources and for which, as we have done for all the other countries, because every enlargement has always been financed with fresh resources, i believe that in this case too enlargement with croatia should be financed with fresh resources.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am about to introduce a question which is not of little importance and which concerns an intensive, intensive activity which we have set up with the special committee, which was requested by the european parliament itself: the committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. a year of intense activity with hearings, with the contribution of experts, with a series of delegations we have had in the united states of america, in italy and again in belgrade, with work carried out first with specific working documents and then with this mid-term report. the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering, all transnational crimes, require strong judicial and police cooperation based on trust between the member states and responsible competition through specific cooperation agreements with third countries. we wanted to focus our attention on a challenge which is no longer just a european challenge, but a global challenge to crimes which are essentially - as commissioner malmström knows very well - economic crimes. we believe that this is precisely why we must ensure that these resources which are now being illegally acquired by criminal systems can instead be recovered. what do you mean, "what"? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fight against organised crime is certainly a political priority of the european parliament and we believe that it is also one of the commission's and the member states' priorities: we have therefore provided for a common definition of organised crime which includes mafia-type crime, with reference to the most advanced legislative models, the fight against human trafficking. the fight against drug trafficking, the fight against cigarette smuggling and illegal betting in sports competitions require close cooperation with the various parties involved: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the functioning of the internal market. we also recommended as it should be the abolition of banking secrecy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat corruption, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we must regain the trust of honest citizens and businessmen! it does this through more responsible policy, by extending the provision of the exchange vote to include promises of benefits other than money. companies which have been convicted by a previous judgment should be excluded from all public tenders in the member states. finally, the european public prosecutor's office must be activated. this proposal is needed, and we need to make a greater effort to combat tax havens, which are also located in the member states, and to make the banking system more transparent and to ensure that notaries and chambers of commerce compete responsibly. the real beneficiary must be identified with certainty and taxation must be uniform at european level. we need to start again from europe, from the european union, to better counter these criminal systems that have caused death, barbaric killings against those in sicily, but in the rest of italy, as well as in europe, who have fought with great strength and with great courage against these criminal systems. a roadmap, mr president, with a precise timetable and with a strong call from the committee. i thank the chairman of the crim committee, the coordinators, the shadows, the authors of the thematic contributions, the secretariat and i am at their disposal for any further input they may wish to give.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all, let me sincerely thank the rapporteur, mr iacolino, the coordinators, the secretaries, the secretariat, the commission, all the members of the crim committee and commissioner malmström. if it were not for commissioner malmström and her sensitivity over the past few years, we would not be here today to discuss this text: so, thank you, commissioner malmström. as i said earlier, the european parliament itself has shown great political sensitivity during this parliamentary term on a subject which has not been tackled since 1979, by bringing the subject of organised crime to the centre of the debate in the european institutions. a year ago parliament strongly called for the creation of an ad hoc committee, crim, whose purpose is to indicate to the european commission and the member states the way forward in defining a european framework for action against criminal and mafia organisations. crim has become a very valuable partner for investigative and judicial authorities, a place where their requests for a full-scale fight against criminal organizations are transformed, after due and proper consideration, into political requests for which the european parliament is responsible. as president of crim, i call on all colleagues to support the work done so far; the interim resolution we are voting on tomorrow is a further step towards adopting a kind of single text which can be the guiding light at european and national level for the coming years and whose implementation must be a priority objective during the next legislature. the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering means above all that we can guarantee freedom, security and democracy to european citizens; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i do not want to repeat what my colleagues have said so well. as president of crim, allow me - and i hope other colleagues will join me in this - to deplore any initiative which is intended to offend the memory of the victims of the mafia, just as has happened in vienna in recent days with the opening of a pub whose menu makes fun of the innocent victims of the mafia. in spain, 31 restaurants are called mafia: it's a disgrace! i call on the member states to take immediate action to put an end to this innocent bloodshed. the mafia must be confronted and defeated and not become fertile ground on which to develop dishonest and criminal patterns.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, the mid-term report which we shall be voting on tomorrow in plenary is an important first step taken by the crim special committee after months of hard work and many hearings. i would like to stress that this is only a first step and that unfortunately we still have a long way to go to spread a culture of legality in europe and to assert the principle that the mafia is not a local phenomenon but a global phenomenon and must be treated as such. among the instruments and measures to be adopted at european level suggested by the report, i would like to mention once again, in particular, the common definition of organised crime and corruption, the harmonisation of criminal law, the abolition of banking secrecy, transparency in public procurement and in particular the creation of a blacklist of companies involved in corruption offences and the ban on participation in public tenders for five years for those economic operators who have committed offences related to corruption, organised crime and money laundering. then there is the establishment of a european public prosecutor, which has been mentioned on more than one occasion, the ineligibility in the european parliament of persons convicted of crimes relating to corruption, organised crime and money laundering, and also strict rules against environmental crimes, and the demand for specific legislation to protect witnesses and victims of trafficking. i thank the rapporteur for his work and hope that this report will be the basis for an even more ambitious final report, which will outline a clear european strategy to combat crime, corruption and money laundering.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this very interesting debate. as every one of you has stated, organised crime groups have become ever more sophisticated and multi-tasked. they create huge harm to their victims and society as a whole. such corruption is also a very well-paid business. different figures have been circulating and it is very difficult to estimate the exact numbers here, but we have seen figures in the commission, and are working around them, saying that organised crime and its different assets amount to at least the collective gdp of several member states, and that corruption in the eu alone could be the equivalent of one eu annual budget – so if we could do away with that, we would not need to have the budget debates and struggles we have today! we need, of course, not only to protect the victims and make our societies safer, but also to get that money and those assets back into the legal economy, and this is even more important now, in the economic crisis. criminals cooperate so police authorities must cooperate as well. they have increasingly done so in europe. we have improved our tools and our different ways of cooperating. europol and other agencies are building slowly, but i agree with mr newton dunn that there is still trust that needs to be built before all these can be really efficient. but slowly there is a common police culture growing. we also have a variety of laws but it is, as many of you have said, also important that they are implemented. two months ago, the deadline expired for implementing the trafficking directive. only nine countries have done this so far. four have notified us that they have partially implemented it and they are on their way, but that means half of them must still do it. this is a very important tool to fight this horrible modern slavery. there are also other tools that we have proposed or are in the proposal pipeline. there are some very valuable proposals in the report by mr iacolino. we look forward to the final report next autumn and we will continue, of course, to work very closely with you.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to the valuable speeches and contributions of my colleagues, as well as to the reply by commissioner malmström. there is no doubt that the laws of the member states must be harmonized, that this innovative and formidable instrument of preventive confiscation must be given impetus - both on a civil and criminal basis - in order to take the resources that have been illegally acquired by criminal systems and use them in the legal economy for the benefit of welfare, the provision of training, the right to education, youth unemployment and the fight against youth unemployment. we have not talked about investigative journalism, which also has an important role, and the right of access to documents to ensure that public administration is transparent; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will now have an important role to play: we expect by june at the latest by the end of this activity before the summer the european power of attorney act: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the ball is now in our hands and we must make the best of it, through an extraordinary capacity for cooperation between the commission, the individual member states, the council and the european parliament. i thank all those who have contributed, again today, to stimulating a healthy and proactive debate, and i also thank the groups which abstained in the vote in the crim committee, but i trust that they too can support this vote tomorrow, because the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering does not require arguments - which were not present in the crim committee - but rather that convinced unity which i have heard again today through the valuable and stimulating contributions - i repeat - of my colleagues and the commissioner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to say that i found the work of mrs morin-chartier and her shadows very intense and very effective. so they have undoubtedly merit, because they have enabled us to arrive at a point of equilibrium in a very delicate, very complex matter which until now had no necessary regulation. but now i would ask the commissioner to prepare the next step forward now, because we have not come to the end of a long journey. because you see, electromagnetic fields often produce silent diseases that are not immediately felt but that exert their negative effects over time. for this reason it is very important - as other colleagues have also said - to regulate in future the obligation of constant monitoring over time of exposed persons and on the other hand to look with due attention to the effects in the long term. we've solved one part of the problem, now we have to go from here to deal with the rest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, access and decent housing should be a right of everyone fully respected. unfortunately, in recent years, due to the economic crisis, more and more families, including those in the middle class, are in a housing emergency. i therefore think that the two criteria should be revised: the first is the bank foreclosure test, because it is not possible for entire families who have invested in their future to find themselves in the middle of a road. the second is the criterion for access to so-called public housing. i am a tuscan and i want the public housing to be given first to the tuscans, to my people, to those who have been resident in the territory for at least ten years, to those who have made a concrete contribution to the wealth of my land. it is unacceptable that my fellow citizens in difficulty - perhaps disabled, elderly - are being overtaken in the rankings by newcomers, by roma, by foreigners. mr president, the message i want to send is clear: first my people, then everyone else!
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am honoured and proud to present the fruit of months of intensive work and negotiations, and i thank all the colleagues who have contributed to enrich the final text with their insights and proposals. the european parliament takes the initiative and gives its opinion on the most important and sensitive issues for the revival of the labour market, training, employment and mobility. it is precisely by exploiting these three elements that we must start to give a real boost to women's employment. this must be achieved by following new paths with a broad european dimension, where personal and professional experiences are fully exploited, stimulating the free movement of citizens, on which the very existence of the european union is based. we cannot afford any further missteps and we must step up our efforts to achieve the europe 2020 target. we have the means, commissioner, to make the labour market more accessible and dynamic, and this places on us a tremendous responsibility: the europe project will not be completed until all member states have the appropriate instruments to promote gender equality, combat all forms of exploitation in the labour market and put the protection of social security rights at the heart of the social protection system. we are told too often that these reforms are too costly for national budgets, and in this connection i would like to point out that the proposal on maternity leave voted by parliament on 20 october 2010 is still blocked by the council, which is hostage to vile national egos. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the labour market. to achieve this, we must start from the very core of european society: the family is the engine around which the social, cultural and economic growth of our continent develops. the common market offers opportunities and advantages which are unfortunately not yet being fully exploited; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's social policy. changing jobs in 2013 also means changing your lifestyle and this is a very delicate choice, especially for a woman. if it is also a matter of changing countries, languages and customs, then we realise the real difficulties faced by women workers. the female talent is the element we can confidently focus on, to set us on the path of reforms we need to get out of the economic quagmire in which we are trapped. creating the conditions for women to achieve their professional potential means enabling them to make full use of all the human and cultural resources at their disposal; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. this mechanism, if properly activated and supported, is the only one capable of enabling sustainable growth in society. i take this opportunity to express my disappointment and deep regret at the decision of my political group not to take a clear and unambiguous position on the issue of pink quotas. on a point of such great importance - and i would even say investment - greater courage and determination are needed. i hope, commissioner, that the adoption of this report will not be another example of good intentions that have not been fulfilled. let us not hide behind the cost of implementing the proposed reforms, it is no longer enough to pass laws to protect women! today more than ever, a new cultural education, closely linked to the female figure, must be spread. i 'm going to conclude . this process must raise the image and role of women in society. if we want europe to become the undisputed leader in supporting the educational and professional mobility of women, we must be able to take strong and concrete decisions and abandon all partisan positions and interests.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i find the agreement reached with the council unsatisfactory. i am not convinced that the abolition of ad hoc regulations and the total reliance on the commission is a good idea, and i am afraid that there is a risk that foods produced specifically for celiac patients may continue to be sold in pharmacies only on prescription and only if they are authorized as medicinal products under the european community directive 2001/83. under the agreement, foods for people intolerant to gluten are not covered by the scope of the regulation. the terms 'gluten-free' and 'low gluten' will be regulated under the regulation on the provision of food and consumer information. the compromise text in the recital to the implementing act at least ensures that the future implementing act maintains a similar level of protection as that currently enjoyed by foods intended for gluten intolerant persons. foods intended for sportsmen are not included in the scope of the directive, but substitutes for the full daily ration for weight control are. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food industry is not subject to unfair rules, practices or marketing practices. i am voting against the text of the report because i think it does not adequately protect and protect the consumer, especially in relation to sportsmen and celiacs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that we are today evaluating positively a job which has been arduous and difficult, and for that i thank the rapporteur who has really defended parliament's position. but i must say thank you to parliament, commissioner, because we had risked deregulation in really sensitive and critical areas. i would like to focus on the celiac products debate: we're talking about a disease that until not too many years ago was almost unknown. we are talking about a disease that is increasing significantly every year, precisely because we have had effective tests for only a few years. according to scientists at the mayo clinic, one in a hundred people today have celiac disease, numbers that are similar to diabetes, for example. but it is still confused with other diseases such as crohn's disease or anaemia. so we must really thank parliament for its position, which was unanimously taken in a strong position at the june plenary session last year, exactly one year ago. i would ask you, commissioner, to really see to it that this compromise is respected and that people with celiac disease are really guaranteed that quality in food, which is not just gluten-free food, but food that has achieved equivalent quality through research. this has been achieved but we can always do better.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, gluten is widely distributed and found in many foods. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. it is unheard of for the council to ignore celiac patients, who are a group of consumers at risk; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of the introduction of a new product. the european union, with the regulation we are about to vote on, is missing the opportunity for celiac patients to be better protected. the regulatory framework which aims to protect vulnerable consumers, excluding celiac patients, by providing appropriate information on the setting of specific rules; i am not going to go into the details of the amendments, but i would like to say that i am not going to vote for them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the financial allocation: it is not demagogy to say that there is always money to save the banks, but when it comes to literally feeding our fellow citizens, the funds are even cut. pending the final budget, it should at least be decided that the financing can cover 100% for those countries in budgetary difficulties, because otherwise the poor will have to pay for it, since they will not want to use up the cofinancing part. secondly, as already mentioned, bureaucratization is very important: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. thirdly: the commission will also be able to organise a public consultation on the implementation of the programme. the fao says that food waste in italy is equivalent to the food consumed in spain in a year, so it's probably a culture problem, not just a money problem. but that should not be an excuse for cutting funds in the budgets, because europe only makes sense if it can feed everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs castello very warmly, because the fund is in fact europe's response to the material needs of its citizens. it's as if we've agreed to put on the right glasses and see reality as it is and not as we dream it; but shamefully - i use this word too, as did my colleague before me - the bloc countries do not want to put on their glasses and do not see that the reality has been the opposite of our strategies and that the poor have increased by a few million in recent years. in the face of this poverty and exclusion, we must meet vital needs such as food, but also make an accompanying link to achieve that social inclusion which is an essential part of the very idea of europe, through the complementarity of this fund with the structural funds and the social fund. the fund must be fast, lean, efficient as has been said, it must act through the ngos, which are very numerous in europe and whom we must thank for their valuable work. but today we must also make another commitment, namely that the fund's budget must be adequate, not less than in the past, and that it must be a compulsory fund. i believe that this is a moral duty which europe owes to its most disadvantaged citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this report the european parliament is sending a strong and clear signal - in this dramatic crisis in which the number of poor is increasing - of its willingness to increase the food aid fund for the poor, while maintaining the centrality of food distribution, but supplemented by other social assistance measures, especially for the homeless, for the most deprived families and children. we wanted to streamline the distribution of this food, to strengthen cooperation with ngos - and there are many in this field - and to extend measures to reduce waste and strengthen networks and networks for the distribution of affordable food, but also to allow greater autonomy for families rather than total dependence. i think that the fact that we have found this good solution, that is to say that all the member states should be part of this programme, except those who do not use it and leave the funds to the common fund, which remains dedicated to this purpose, seems to me to be a good mediation that has collected many of the cases that had emerged.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no one wants to question the aims of this programme - especially in a time of dramatic crisis with an increasing number of people who can no longer afford to buy food to feed themselves on a daily basis. so it's right to intervene, but the way it's done leaves me a little puzzled; there have been too many cases in the past of fraud and fraud with products intended for the poor and then resold by unscrupulous individuals without anyone properly checking. last year, i reported to the european commission several incidents in tuscany, in arezzo, of foodstuffs with eu labels still in good condition found in the garbage cans. the commission said that it was unaware of this and that the responsibility for the checks was solely and exclusively with the member states; i wonder, then, whether it would not be appropriate to renationalize these programmes, with a more easily controllable dimension, because it is unacceptable that there is an exculpatory of responsibility on such important matters.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those who have made this possible, within the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, an objective which is supported and enhanced by a substantial contribution from all the political groups. it is a mid-term report, it sets out some important guidelines and policy directions, which the commission and the member states will have to take forward in the coming weeks and months, the european ombudsman first of all. the final report will be adopted in october and i am convinced that today the united states of europe, which has been mentioned so often, has really struck a blow. so thanks to all of you who made this possible.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues who have helped to make this report better. i think that we need to be more courageous and more determined on a point of such importance as the question of the rose quota. we all know that quotas are not the perfect instrument, precisely because they are compulsory, but in a society where women still have great difficulty in establishing themselves, they can be a means of dismantling old attitudes, which unfortunately still exist in many professional fields. i therefore ask everyone to vote in favour of the second part of paragraph 23.
in writing. - i support the dodds report; the purpose of this text is to align regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i believe that the proposed legal solution will make the exploitation of these stocks quicker and more effective over time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal on limiting the proportion of stocks taken by fishermen and simplifying the system for managing fishing effort. i believe that the principles set out here help to improve the prospects in this area and to fill the gaps in the previous plan of 2004. in particular, i agree with the sustainable exploitation of cod resources and the inclusion of maximum levels to be decided by the member states in relation to the management of fishing effort by vessels. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, which are very important in order to make the ordinary legislative procedure in this field more linear.
in writing. the proposal amends regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks. i am voting in favour of this, since the legal solution proposed may also have an impact on other possible multiannual plans.
in writing. aware of the situation of fisheries in the european union, i am in favour of the adoption of this proposal for a regulation as it clearly defines the competences and implementing powers of the european commission in fisheries. it is essential to establish simple rules for the regulation of fisheries resources, in particular cod. i am also sensitive to the emphasis in this proposal on the scientific knowledge used to set different fishing rates (mortality, adjustment of quotas, etc.), which in fact leads to the application of an effective and fair regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, the main purpose of which is to confirm a long-term plan for the conservation of cod stocks, ensuring their sustainable exploitation in the geographical areas of the kattegat, the north sea, the waters of western scotland and the irish sea, in accordance with the maximum sustainable yield. this is a subject which, of course, does not directly concern our italian seas, but as european parliamentarians elected without territorial limitations we must work in the interests of all european citizens and, as far as i am concerned, also for the protection of animals, no matter in which country, no matter in which sea they are. i hope that the honourable members from other countries will show solidarity and the same spirit of european solidarity towards my fellow citizens and the italian seas if the need arises.
in writing. - the german court is investigating the tragic accident which seriously involved our colleague alexander alvaro and today we were asked to vote to remove parliamentary immunity so that the investigation can be carried out. i had the opportunity to meet, discuss and appreciate the preparation and respect for other colleagues, even in the face of opinions not necessarily converging with his own, of mr alvaro during my parliamentary initiative of written declaration no 29. i am sure that the judiciary will be able to assess the circumstances of the event without political instrumentalization against a young and brilliant vice-president of the european parliament. my heartfelt thoughts and best wishes for a speedy recovery and closeness go out to mr alvaro, his family and the families of the other people involved in the accident.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mr garcés ramón on the new agenda for consumer policy. in fact, in a market which is increasingly complex and globalised and increasingly dominated by electronic commerce, it is even more essential to promote, by means of concrete legislative measures, correct and complete information for consumers, with particular reference to vulnerable categories of consumers such as children, the elderly and those who are not very familiar with electronic commerce, especially with regard to particular categories of products such as foodstuffs, and those who come into direct contact with the person providing financial and banking services. first of all, it is essential to strengthen the control of the safety of products placed on the market and to combat unfair commercial practices and the many forms of misleading advertising effectively, in order to protect the health of consumers and to combat counterfeiting on a european basis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ensuring respect for the rights of citizens in a social market economy is an objective pursued by the european union and it is achieved through action to protect consumers. over the years, the union has made great strides in protecting consumers from safety risks through legislation introducing mandatory labelling, control of gm crops, transparency in financial transactions and more. all this, while useful, no longer seems sufficient: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the provisions on the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data against unauthorised access to the internet. the adoption of a new agenda for european consumer policy, while also committing ourselves to combating conflicts of interest, which must be an essential part of this agenda, is now more necessary and indispensable than ever.
in writing. − the commission has published the draft european consumer agenda, as a follow-up to the eu's consumer policy strategy, which includes a series of consumer-oriented initiatives for the period 2014-2020. i welcome this project: the european consumer agenda gives concrete meaning to the principle of the treaty on european union that the interests of consumers must be taken into account in all relevant policies of the european union. at the global level, european consumers face new challenges such as globalisation of markets, financial deregulation, digitalisation of the economy and an ageing population. i therefore believe that food safety, health, financial and digital products must be the top priority on the european agenda. recent surveys show that the most important priorities for european consumers are better protection in the financial services and food sectors. it is clear that the issues of food safety and labelling, and the protection of consumers against the greed of financial systems, must be included in the consumer agenda without delay. the level of implementation of consumer protection needs to be the same throughout the european union and market surveillance activities need to be truly effective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, following the instructions of the epp group to which i belong, because i agree that ensuring food, health, energy, financial and digital products must be the top priority on the european consumer agenda. our citizens are facing new challenges such as the globalisation of markets, financial deregulation and the digitalisation of the economy, in a context of economic crisis that makes choices and decisions more complex. i therefore believe that consumers should have access to information on products that is as transparent, efficient, reliable and comparable as possible. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr gárces ramón, which seeks to establish a new agenda for european consumer policy. i believe that it is our duty to protect consumers in the best possible way and the proposals contained in this own-initiative report are acceptable. i think it is essential that the commission improves the means available to consumers to resolve any dispute, regardless of where or how it is purchased, and further increases food safety in europe, especially after the recent scandals affecting the sector.
in writing. − the new agenda for european consumer policy aims to create sustainable consumption and to increase growth and consumer confidence. an important first step is the commission's willingness to cooperate with economic operators: the quality, traceability, safety and authenticity of products must be guaranteed to increase consumer confidence. i agree with the rapporteur that a proposal should be made to improve the public's knowledge of the financial sector. i join in the call for rapid, accessible and effective redress mechanisms that are not hampered by the cross-border nature of the dispute or by the lack of information or resources to access legal aid. finally, i believe it is important to have cooperation between european, national and local authorities and consumer associations in order to establish consultation mechanisms to ensure the implementation of the measures set out in the agenda. i am voting in favour of this proposal, as i agree with many of the points listed.
in writing. − the adaptation of the european consumer policy agenda sets important targets, in line with the challenges posed by the evolution of the european and global market. in particular, the new perspectives designed for food safety, set themselves important operational objectives. in the light of recent cases of fraud in the agri-food sector, it is appropriate to work towards developing an agenda that takes account of the new needs of consumers and respect for their prerogatives. i think this report fully captures the necessary challenges to be undertaken to improve consumer protection.
in writing. − we have today adopted a new agenda covering all possible initiatives for european consumers for the period 2014-2020. we believe it is important to urge the european commission to prepare a green paper which will be useful to consumer rights organisations, citizens and national governments. we consider it a top priority to ensure food, health, energy, financial and digital product safety and to make information more transparent, efficient and reliable for consumers. it is therefore essential to give consumers greater decision-making power in their relationship with the markets, and to encourage them to take responsibility and to be aware of their rights. we are also convinced that the conditions of inequality within the european union must be addressed in the context of the solidarity inherent in the european social model. it is therefore necessary that elements such as social and environmental sustainability, food and product safety, with particular attention to the relationship between markets and minors, be taken into account in the construction of a new consumer agenda. in addition, the telecommunications market in the european union will have to be able to provide consumers with a secure digital environment while respecting the protection of all personal data.
in writing. consumption, which accounts for 56% of european gdp, is a very important economic factor. this is why consumers must be protected by making them aware of their rights and giving them the confidence they need to use sales networks, especially those on the internet. this report, by making proposals for consumer safety, good information, the guarantee of the existence of legal remedies and the alignment of rights with economic and social developments; meet my approval. that is why i voted without hesitation for this own-initiative report.
in writing. - i voted strongly in favour of this resolution and i ask the european commission to commit itself without delay to implementing as soon as possible all the measures necessary to ensure that the internal market is truly single, that protection against fraud is truly effective, that the resolution of disputes is rapid and proportionate to the value of the goods, that information for consumers is comprehensive and that electronic commerce is reliable. without these commitments, we will be back here in a few years' time debating and voting on the same demands, but then it will be too late.
in writing. as representatives of the european citizens, we have a great responsibility towards them, their quality of life, the freedom and ease with which they can develop their interests, and we must also look to the balances of the internal market of which the citizens are the main builders as consumers. i therefore believe that the european union needs to have a long-term political agenda, looking to 2020, in the interests of consumers. transparency of information, product safety and the protection of consumer rights require a long-term plan which, especially in this time of crisis, is able to guarantee greater freedom of choice and consequently a higher level of satisfaction.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text of the report as ensuring food safety, health, energy, financial and digital products must be the top priority on the european consumer agenda. this agenda also fits into the final phase of the digital single market, which requires online protection, legal certainty, consumer rights safeguards and efficient and reliable delivery services for the transport of goods and services. this agenda is necessary to reduce disparities between consumers in europe and contribute to a low-carbon economy. it is essential that food safety and labelling aspects are included in the food safety strategy, assessing the need to ensure safety in the food chain from production to consumption.
in writing. - 56% of the eu's gdp is accounted for by consumer spending, the real engine of the economy. in times of economic crisis like the one we are experiencing, it is more than ever necessary to incentivise consumer spending to get the economy moving again. however, the increasing globalisation and the rapid development of new information technologies are making consumers increasingly wary of the market: 60% of the population does not shop online and about 75% of small and medium-sized enterprises do not use the electronic channel to sell their products. the problem becomes more relevant for those groups of consumers who are less familiar with new technologies, such as the elderly. in order to help the economic recovery, i felt it necessary to support the proposal for a new consumer policy agenda, to encourage the spread of renewed consumer confidence in the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a new agenda for european consumer policy because i believe it is important to adopt initiatives aimed at protecting consumers, who are constantly exposed to risks. consumers' associations, which play an important role in assisting citizens, should therefore be given more support. the draft european consumer agenda will have to contain measures to protect children from the advertising of food products that encourage bad habits and will have to step up controls on products of dubious origin containing dangerous chemicals. the commission will therefore have to step up its controls on labelling and invest in research to assess the health risks arising from the use of certain products. we will have to promote local food production by giving farmers aid to increase the production of agricultural products in view of the growing demand for food and by encouraging short circuits which would lead to a reduction in transport and therefore co2 emissions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the consumer. it is important to support the creation of tools that enable citizens to take collective action to protect their rights.
in writing. − the european consumer agenda gives concrete meaning to the treaty principle that the interests of consumers must be taken into account in all relevant union policies. european consumers are currently facing new challenges such as globalisation of markets, financial deregulation, digitalisation of the economy and an ageing population: this means that the tools for redress and support for consumer organisations will become more relevant. it is therefore essential to ensure that the european citizens are as attentive and effective as possible, and in this connection it is essential that there be efficient, transparent and reliable information.
in writing. − directive 2003/8/ec is an important tool for a european area of justice without administrative barriers, for the benefit of citizens. the aim of the directive is to improve access to justice in crossborder civil cases by laying down common minimum standards for legal aid and to ensure that people who cannot afford legal aid are provided with adequate legal aid. the greatest possible awareness and information is needed to strengthen the rights linked to european citizenship: only 12% of citizens are aware of the existence of such free legal aid at the expense of the state. i also agree that there is a need to provide for increased language skills and simplified procedures for the benefit of citizens and competent authorities, in order to maximise access to the possibilities provided for in the directive.
in writing. − directive 2003/8/ec is a piece of legislation of great importance to european citizens, as it ensures that the least well-off members of society have access to justice in other member states too. however, this directive has some problems: first of all, it's not very well known. the commission has established that only 12% of citizens are aware of the existence of legal aid in crossborder disputes, so it is unlikely that citizens would be able to exercise this right in a situation where it is provided for. in view of this, i would draw the commission's attention to the need to take measures to ensure that greater awareness is raised about legal aid, particularly among legal practitioners. another problem is that different member states have different thresholds for granting legal aid at the expense of the state. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal that applicants should be able to apply for legal aid in the member state of residence or in the member state where they are requested, in order to avoid a citizen who would have been entitled to legal aid in his country of residence being denied that right.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the zwiefka report on better access to justice: advocates at the public expense in cross-border civil and commercial disputes. although european citizens have had the right to request legal aid in crossborder disputes since 2004, only 12% of them are aware of it. i therefore share the text of the initiative proposal which seeks to promote information campaigns for the public and legal practitioners, introduce training programmes for the latter and above all would like to grant the possibility of requesting free legal aid for every citizen, thus overcoming the problem of access thresholds, which are different in each member state.
in writing. - only 12% of european citizens are aware of the existence of public procurement in crossborder disputes. this leads to a low level of use of this instrument, which is intended to ensure that the most disadvantaged members of society also have access to justice in other member states, for example when they exercise their right to free movement or benefit from the internal market. directive 2003/8/ec, which introduced this guarantee, has been positively transposed by the member states, although it is necessary to monitor those national realities where implementation is not yet complete. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. in view of the existing legislation, i agree with the proposal to have the right of representation sought in the state of residence, which, if the requirements are met, will issue a certificate which can then be invoked in the country where the dispute is taking place. this would greatly simplify procedures and reduce the costs of language barriers.
in writing. - we welcomed the european commission's evaluation report on the application of council directive 2003/8/ec. we are satisfied with the way in which the countries of the european union are implementing it, which aims to improve access to justice in crossborder disputes, both civil and commercial, by defining common minimum standards for legal aid. as mr zwiefka has pointed out, there are still some difficulties and gaps in its application. we believe, first of all, that it is essential that the member states should make every effort to raise awareness among all european citizens of the subject, considering that the commission has established that only 12% of them are aware of the existence of legal aid even in crossborder disputes. in addition, in order to avoid problems of understanding between lawyers and clients, we consider it appropriate to take steps to ensure knowledge of the foreign language and legal system which is the subject of the disputes in question. we therefore call on all member states to promote its rapid and widespread application so that citizens can benefit from rapid and secure access to free legal aid throughout europe.
in writing. cross-border legal disputes are important issues, particularly in the context of the continuous strengthening of exchanges and interactions that are taking place within the european union. mr zwiefka, in pointing out the problems associated with these situations, has put forward proposals in his report, which i support. these include proposals to make the previous directive on the subject, which is little known to the general public, known. for many of our fellow europeans, justice in crossborder cases seems inaccessible. i support the idea of improving access to justice and that is why i am voting for this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the signal given is important: in a single internal market, consumer disputes must be resolved effectively and the logistics alone (let us imagine a problem between a swedish trader and a greek buyer) is in itself a barrier of distance, time and above all cost. the state should therefore take over this type of guarantee. i regret that the commission does not specifically address the issue of european procedures which also fall within the scope of the directive on legal aid, such as the european small claims procedure, despite the fact that the application of the directive in relation to the procedure in question could certainly have been studied during the period from 1 january 2009 to 31 december 2010. i am pleased to note, however, that all the member states have transposed the directive, although the interpretation of the scope of application varies on some points from one member state to another. i hope that in a future report information will be provided, broken down by country, on the number and substance of the cases, in order to obtain a more detailed and meaningful picture of the use of this instrument.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on legal aid in crossborder civil and commercial disputes because we must ensure that the most deprived citizens have better access to justice by defining common rules which enable them to benefit from legal aid, not only in their country of residence but also in other member states, and without difficulty. the commission's assessment of the directive is positive, but i believe that action must be taken to make it more widely known to the public, thus giving them access to it. it would be important to break down barriers to language skills between lawyers and citizens by creating databases of lawyers with relevant skills and no gaps in knowledge of the legal systems of other states. given that different countries have different thresholds for access to legal aid at the expense of the state, citizens may have a problem with the discrepancy between the procedures of the different countries, so i am in favour of a certificate that attributes the ownership of the benefit in the state of residence and that is recognized in any other state without having to resort to new expertise. these changes would make it possible to speed up procedures, simplifying procedures for citizens.
in writing. - i support the creutzmann report on the protection of intellectual property rights by customs authorities. i agree with the text where it calls for stricter rules on checks on goods in transit, but especially at the points where it calls for greater attention to small consignments, mainly from e-commerce purchases, and for the seizures of counterfeit goods to be reported to the companies concerned, giving them the opportunity to analyse the sample and investigate the origin of the counterfeit; i think that a standard of this kind would be extremely useful in supporting our companies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this parliament's legislative resolution adopting the council's position with a view to the adoption of the regulation on the protection of intellectual property rights by customs authorities. the strengthening of the internal market and consumer protection depends to a large extent on better regulation of intellectual property. counterfeiting causes damage worth €250 billion a year, but its negative effects also affect the health and safety of citizens. this instrument introduced introduces new rules which will improve the whole and on which i have given my consent. in particular, the role and tasks of customs officers are strengthened: it is essential to strengthen controls when suspect goods arrive from third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. this new regulation also has a positive impact on legal certainty, taking into account the legal, economic and commercial developments that have taken place in the meantime. finally, i am convinced that particular attention should be paid to medicines from non-eu countries, because of the significant implications for the health of citizens.
in writing. − the european union has taken an important step towards defending the rights of companies that work by the rules. the continuous violations of intellectual property rights by criminal organizations in recent years have caused considerable economic damage. the council of europe has recognised that large-scale infringements in trade in goods are a serious problem worldwide. the global legal framework on intellectual property rights must now be accompanied by more effective enforcement of the law. in this context i think it is precisely the customs authorities, with their valuable control work, who must play an increasingly important role in the application of this legislation.
in writing. intellectual property rights are a key element of the europe 2020 strategy to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. when we know the cost of piracy and counterfeiting in europe (€250 billion a year!) and the danger that copyright infringement can pose to consumers' health and safety, we must act. this is what the report proposes by increasing control measures but exempting goods in the luggage of final consumers, who are not always aware of the pirated or contraband nature of the goods they buy. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - we voted with satisfaction on the second reading of the report on the new rules for customs officers which will allow the control authorities to stop suspicious goods without interfering with the rules on intellectual property and goods carried by individual travellers. the phenomenon of counterfeiting, which amounts to 250 billion euros, is destroying european economic development through the loss of jobs and the closure of many smes, unable to face unfair competition from third countries, our economic partners and competitors, and also increases the risk to the health of european consumers who, relying on the internal market, buy without appropriate knowledge. we therefore support the text that has been voted, even if we do not hide the problem of medicines from non-eu countries and the increase in their online sale, where the possibility of confiscation of goods becomes ridiculous. unfortunately, without full harmonization of customs rules and control and sanctioning mechanisms, europe will still have a lot of work to do to defend its consumers and its manufacturing fabric if the single market is to regain the full confidence of european citizens, and that is why we underline our disappointment at the vote which allowed a further delay in the entry into force of the new customs code at the last part-session.
in writing. − in europe, on average, the ten most important brands in each member state produce 10% of european gdp. we need adequate measures to protect our products. the phenomenon of counterfeiting has serious consequences not only for manufacturing companies and consumers but also for the european economy as a whole. it is estimated that counterfeiting cost the creative industry €10 billion and over 185 000 jobs in 2008 alone. the amount of goods detained at customs suspected of infringing intellectual property rights has increased tenfold in the last decade: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore support the proposal to revise the previous legislation on procedures for the confiscation and destruction of counterfeit goods by customs authorities. a simplified procedure for handling counterfeit goods, extended to all intellectual property rights, will relieve customs authorities of unnecessary red tape and stop shipments before they reach the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the council's position on the adoption of the regulation on the protection of intellectual property rights by customs authorities and i believe that stricter rules are necessary to protect our markets and the health of consumers. millions of counterfeit products are discovered each year, with significant economic repercussions for our companies and damaging their image, as well as often having harmful effects on the health of consumers. customs defenses should be strengthened by intensifying controls to prevent goods from entering the eu territory and by giving customs officers greater powers to stop suspicious goods, paying particular attention to products such as toys, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals, which, once they enter the european market, would have very serious effects on the health of citizens. in the meantime, it would be desirable for companies to facilitate traceability and provide customs with the information needed to identify genuine products and distinguish them from counterfeits.
in writing. − the turnover of counterfeit products in europe is worth €250 billion a year: it is therefore of paramount importance to prevent counterfeit goods from entering the union in order to protect european markets and citizens. as the rapporteur said, customs authorities are in a very good position to detect and eliminate counterfeit products before they are distributed throughout europe. the regulation will therefore enable customs officials to do their job more efficiently, stopping suspicious goods without altering the rules on intellectual property and goods carried by travellers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted and approved today the regulation on food for special medical purposes. this is the conclusion of an intensive and complex negotiation process, the main objectives of which were, on the one hand, to simplify the legislative framework and to bring it up to date with technical and scientific progress and, on the other, to guarantee high levels of health protection for those patients for whom a specific restriction is of vital importance. a legal framework has therefore been developed to fill in the legislative gaps and avoid unnecessary overlap, while maintaining the emphasis on the importance of innovation in this area and introducing safeguards to protect consumers from misleading information on food labelling. a framework setting maximum levels and prohibitions for the use of certain pesticides which reforms the list of substances that can be added to food. today's vote is therefore of the utmost importance and demonstrates the european union's concern to protect the health of its citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the informal negotiations during the cypriot presidency were very quick and i am pleased that an agreement was reached in such a short time. the agreement on the dossier of 14 november 2012 fully meets all the demands of parliament and represents a significant step forward for food safety. however, some doubts arise in relation to the part of the agreement concerning food for people intolerant to gluten, which could have been already covered in the report. the additional information on the absence or reduced presence of gluten is a matter of great importance to the part of the consumers concerned by the subject and the fact that the agreement provides protection similar to that which already exists and does not seek improvements leaves me puzzled. i hope that this potential shortcoming will be taken seriously in the work that is planned and that parliament will be able to play its part here too.
in writing. − in a constantly changing market, where once niche products are now in increasing demand, there is a need for a comprehensive review of existing legislation on food intended for specific groups of the population, including the elderly, children, diabetics and celiacs. among the proposals put forward, i agree that the concept of dietetic food should be abolished and that a single legal act should be created to regulate the lists of foodstuffs, not only to ensure a harmonised treatment at european level but also to give greater attention to the specific needs of certain consumers. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of providing adequate legal cover for people who are intolerant to gluten or other forms of intolerance. it is not enough, as the commission believes, to say that a food is 'gluten-free' or 'lactose-free' when for many people these products are for everyday consumption, not occasional consumption, and are obtained by a particular manufacturing process. more attention should also be paid to children, especially those born underweight or premature, and to people with diabetes, a disease which we know is on the increase.
in writing. - i voted against all the amendments which have been tabled. to be honest, i can't and won't say that i don't share them: a year and a half ago, when the dossier was still in the hands of the committees (which had the power to give opinions on the matter), i, together with other italian colleagues from all the political groups, fought a fierce battle for greater and better consideration of celiac disease. it should be remembered that italy is particularly affected by celiac disease, probably because of the different consumption of gluten-rich foods (primarily bread and pasta). however, we are in the second reading and, in agreement with the associations of celiac patients, i felt that this battle should be fought in other places, in other dossiers, and that it was not worth throwing away more than 20 months of work. i am still bitter about the lack of attention paid to a problem which affects italy in particular, but i am confident in the solution found and in the commission's implementing acts.
in writing. - the resolution adopted today is the result of a compromise which does not take account of parliament's vote at first reading. in fact, although i protect infants and children, i find it scandalous that it excludes celiacs. by not including products with a nutritional profile similar to gluten in medical foods we are further penalising the many european citizens who suffer from celiac disease.
in writing. − the european council's position on foods for infants in early childhood covers a number of topics, including lactose, foods for infants, sports foods and pesticides. although i think that the agreement reached with the council is unsatisfactory as regards gluten - it does not seem appropriate to repeal the ad hoc regulation and rely on the commission - i am in favour of it.
in writing. - this parliament has been fighting for food safety and consumer protection on several occasions. in the present case, the guarantee of safety in products intended for infants, children and special medical purposes requires a very high degree of control and safety, both for the target group and for the risks involved. the measures to be taken, especially for food coming from the extra-eu border, must therefore take account of a high degree of caution and be very attentive to the specificities of the target audiences, considering that these are infants and children in the early stages of life.
in writing. - we adopted today in plenary a number of recommendations on the new rules on baby food, food for special diets and low-calorie food. the rapporteur, mr ries, wanted to emphasize that the rules on the labelling and content of infant milk and food for medical purposes need to be better defined. the aim is to improve consumer protection and to help consumers distinguish more clearly between food for everyday consumption and food for specific groups. we therefore consider the new legislation to be valid, which simplifies and clarifies the rules on the labelling and composition of infant formulae and follow-on formulae (between six and ten months of age). we also believe that it is essential and necessary to include a comprehensive list of substances such as vitamins and minerals to be added to the list of these foods. finally, we would like to stress the importance of the presentation and advertising of infant formulae, and ask that it not be misleading and therefore not attempt to induce people to abandon natural breastfeeding for these products unless it is really necessary.
in writing. - forgive me, but sometimes i have trouble understanding this parliament: i do not understand how i could have been in the minority in parliament, supporting an amendment which required the gluten content of a foodstuff intended for children to be clearly indicated. celiac disease, or gluten intolerance, develops at the very end of breastfeeding and i therefore think it is most appropriate to vote in favour of more information in this context. infants and children are vulnerable subjects who must be given more protection than adults, even when it is the adult who makes choices on their behalf and who, all the more so, has the right to be informed in greater detail as he is taking responsibility for the health of vulnerable subjects. i think we also missed an opportunity to send a message of solidarity to the 0.8% of the european population who suffer from celiac disease.
in writing. − health protection is a subject which includes such varied and specialised work plans that the european legislator has to deal with it in detail, as in the case of the newly adopted text on food for special medical purposes and food for infants and young children. the text is intended to provide guarantees on products intended for patients and children in order to guarantee their health and to certify the product purchased by parents. clear information on the substances contained in these foods facilitates their identification and ensures product safety, which can be easily detected from the labelling. the help of technology and science, together with the regulatory simplification that the text achieves, facilitates those patients and consumers who cannot do without the consumption of these foods.
in writing. − infants, children and seriously ill people are not like other consumers. i believe that it is our duty as legislators to establish stricter rules, particularly as regards the composition and labelling of the foodstuffs intended for them. i believe that the new legislation simplifies and clarifies the rules on the labelling and composition of infant and follow-on foods (for children aged between 6 and 10 months), cereal-based foods, foods for special medical purposes and dietetic foods. i believe that this new legislation can be a valuable tool to protect consumers and help them to distinguish more clearly between food for everyday consumption and food for specific groups.
in writing. − from now on, the labelling of products such as infant milk and food for medical purposes will be clearer and better defined, protecting consumers and helping them to choose the products best suited to their specific needs. the final text clearly showed the european parliament's desire to promote breast milk and breastfeeding by prohibiting advertising or illustrations which could induce consumers to prefer synthetic or powdered milk to it, except for medical reasons.
in writing. - today's vote marks the end of an intensive and difficult negotiation process which was intended both to simplify the legislative framework for certain particular foods and to ensure high levels of health protection for those patients who are bound to a specific diet. in order to make this document as complete as possible, safeguards have been introduced to protect consumers from all types of information which may appear misleading in the labelling, presentation or advertising of foodstuffs; the prohibition of the use of certain pesticides has been provided for; the list of substances that can be added to food has also been reformed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the development of magnetic resonance imaging technology should have been excluded from the scope of the new directive, and i do not think there can be any doubt about that. the development of this important medical technique must continue and the strict measures initially proposed by the commission were in serious danger of jeopardising it. however, this derogation must be fully justified and the additional measures necessary to protect workers in the sector still need to be clarified and regulated. i realize that this is a very complicated matter and that is why i believe that the commission should continue with further studies and further research on this subject.
in writing. - i fully support the proposal by mrs morin-chartier to amend directive 2004/40/ec to define limit values for exposure to electromagnetic fields and to introduce new, more stringent protection measures. no worker may be exposed to electric, magnetic or electromagnetic fields with values above certain limits which may have biophysical effects dangerous to health. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to electromagnetic fields. in addition, the employer should be required to provide all necessary information on the risks of exposure to electromagnetic fields at the workplace and to train his employees in the use of protective measures, as is the case in the medical field in the use of magnetic resonance imaging.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive, following the instructions given by my group, the ppe. i fully agree that the 2004 eu directive on the risks arising from continuous exposure to electromagnetic fields should be amended: the definition of very restrictive exposure limit values would have reduced the possibilities of using medical equipment for magnetic resonance imaging, which is absolutely essential for the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases. in addition, the medical sector has already put in place strict protective measures for staff, accompanied by strict checks and training on the short and long-term health risks of overexposure and non-compliance with safety measures. in view of these factors, it seems to me justified to introduce a derogation for magnetic resonance imaging and related activities, especially if this derogation is accompanied, as requested by the commission, by even more important safety measures.
in writing. - safety and health of workers are matters of considerable importance, the rate of accidents at work has increased dramatically both because of the lack of communication between the employer and the worker himself and because of the inadequacy of the means of protection. i believe that the social partners have a crucial role to play in the european decision-making process on safety and health at work, as their consultation is crucial and necessary. i agree with the strengthening of existing structures for the protection of workers in order to give them security and peace of mind. i would stress the importance of proper medical surveillance and appropriate protective measures taken by employers towards their workers in order to avoid accidents at work. i voted in favour of this proposal because i agree with everything that the rapporteur has said and discussed.
in writing. − directive 2004/40/ec sets exposure limits for electrical, electromagnetic and magnetic fields. parliament today approved new rules which aim to update the text, to balance the protection of workers' health and safety with the flexibility and proportionality required, safeguarding the health of all those who are exposed to electromagnetic fields at work. these new rules aim to establish international exposure limits, based on the recommendations of the international commission on non-ionizing radiation protection (icnirp). it will, however, be up to the employer to assess and set maximum exposure limits to electromagnetic fields.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by elisabeth morin-chartier on the protection of workers in the eu exposed to electromagnetic fields, as the directive provides greater protection for workers exposed to electromagnetic fields in the performance of their work commitments, while at the same time providing flexibility in taking account of the specific nature of certain risk activities. this new directive places a responsibility on employers to implement measures to reduce the exposure of their workers to electromagnetic fields, and examines the health risks to workers and the short and long-term harmful effects of occupational exposure to such electromagnetic fields. it applies to all sectors and is particularly relevant to workers exposed to high levels of risk, such as those in heavy industry, metal processing, or those working long hours in the vicinity of television, radio and radar installations.
in writing. i am proud to have voted today on my report on the health and safety of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields. i am proud of the work i have been able to lead with the european parliament's negotiating team for over two years. this proposal provides a common regulatory framework for protecting the health and safety of workers in the european union exposed to electromagnetic fields. the report also sets out all the conditions necessary for member states to finally transpose their safety rules within a reasonable period of time, including possible derogations in the medical field (mri) and in the field of military strategic surveillance (e.g. radar). i also fully agree with this proposal because it is a clear and simple text available to all workers and employers in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because high frequency electromagnetic fields, which are what scare people, are becoming more and more an integral part of our lives: in 2012, italy overtook luxembourg to become the european country with the highest concentration of mobile phone users: 109.42 for every 100 people. the data comes from the itu, the united nations telecommunications agency. the world now beats us only by hong kong (114.53). my country also has the first place for the umts: with almost 4 million users, it is the first in europe and the 12th in the world (out of 70 countries using it). in absolute terms, with 62.75 million users, italy ranks second in europe after germany and seventh in the world after japan, the us, china, russia, germany and brazil. in view of a scenario which is therefore likely to get worse (or better, depending of course on the point of view) with the advent of the 4g network already present in some european cities, i can only welcome the fact that the european parliament has committed itself to setting health protection limits in the face of exposure to electromagnetic fields.
in writing. the text adopted today lays down new rules to protect workers exposed to electromagnetic fields more effectively. i think this text strikes a balance between the health and safety of workers and the possibility of using electromagnetic fields when necessary, for example for medical purposes. the legislation covers all sectors, but is mainly aimed at protecting workers exposed to a high level of risk, for example in the steel industry or people working for long hours near tv and radio transmitters and radar installations. finally, i think it is right to leave it to the employer to assess the risks of exposure to electromagnetic fields and to take the necessary measures to reduce the level of exposure, for example by choosing the equipment or by using blocking or shielding mechanisms.
in writing. the vote will strike a balance at european level between the need to protect the health of workers in environments exposed to magnetic fields and the possibility of using them when necessary, for example in the medical and diagnostic field. the new exposure limits will be decided on the basis of scientific findings which may be updated as technological research progresses.
in writing. − exposure to electromagnetic fields from telephone antennas, mobile phones, wlan, wifi, laptops and other sources typical of the era in which we live is a serious health hazard. patients with multiple sensitivities are vulnerable to environmental pollution and patients with electromagnetic hypersensitivity (ehs) to electromagnetic radiation. the european environment and health plan 2004-2010 (2007/2252 ((ini)) provided for greater protection of environments such as schools, nurseries, care homes and health institutions: the limit values for exposure to electromagnetic fields in italy today are 6 volts/metre for high frequencies and 10 and 3 microtesla for lower frequencies, and recent studies show that values of 0.4 for low and 0.2 for high are already very dangerous. given that health inequalities between the various member states should be eliminated and that in sweden electro-sensitivity is recognised as a disability and those affected are entitled to social security support, i think it is important that all member states include multiple chemical sensitivity and electro-sensitivity as recognised diseases in their national health systems, and i hope that minimum safety requirements can be achieved in order to protect the patient.
in writing. − the recent proposal for a european commission directive aims to recast directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents. the directive is of considerable importance in that it specifies the determination of risks, the protection of all workers exposed to such risks, the minimisation or elimination of identified risks, the training and consultation of workers involved, adequate medical surveillance and derogations for those medical devices which use magnetic resonance imaging.
in writing. - i support the dodds report amending ec regulation 1324/2008 which was intended to rebuild cod stocks in the eu's northern waters. the text under vote today amends the regulation to take account of the fact that it was not having the desired effect on fish stocks and the concerns raised by the parties concerned: fishermen and associations.
in writing. − the amendments to regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 on the long-term storage of cod were prompted by the fact that this measure did not produce the expected results - it was aimed at rebuilding cod stocks in the north sea. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − it is clear that the plan for the recovery of cod stocks launched in 2004 has not achieved its objective. in view of the objective data on this matter, the council has rightly adopted a new plan to fill in the gaps of the previous one. i think that the proposal to limit the proportion of stocks taken by fishermen, combined with a simplification of the fishing effort management system, must be accompanied by a parallel reasoning which guarantees future employment to those working in the sector.
in writing. - we have today approved in plenary the report by mrs dodds, which seeks to introduce improvements to the regulation on cod stocks and fishing activities in the countries of the european union. the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) stated that the plan in force since december 2008 has unfortunately disappointed expectations, stressing that it was not studied ad hoc and therefore does not result in a lower fishing mortality. it also lacks stakeholder support in many areas, which makes it even less effective. assuming that the support of the stakeholders is essential for the timely success of the plan, it is clear that the first objective is to rebuild cod stocks while ensuring that the stakeholders adhere to the plan. we also believe that cooperation between the fishing industry and the scientists concerned should be strengthened and extended in order to develop projects aimed at reducing cod catches.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks because it is necessary, through the adoption of a new plan, to fill in the gaps in the old stock recovery plan which did not meet expectations. it is desirable that the council should decide annually on the allowable catches for cod stocks in the areas concerned, ensuring maximum sustainable yield and the fishing mortality rate should be reduced over time to minimum levels. the new regulation will have to introduce a new fisheries management system by setting maximum levels to be managed by the member states, which will have to ensure that they are not exceeded and will have to allow landings of more than two tonnes of cod only in certain ports, establishing appropriate control procedures and recording the quantities landed. i believe it is essential that a plan which involves the stakeholders in the sector is more likely to succeed, but periodic evaluations will be appropriate to allow intervention to correct any shortcomings.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a temporary committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering during this parliamentary term was a very strong signal from the european parliament. the report adopted by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights is important because it shows that the phenomenon of organised crime is no longer confined to a few countries of the european union, but is now being seen as a phenomenon that transcends national borders: for too many years, some countries have been heavily blamed and have suffered damage to their national image and credibility. we must accept the evidence, and unfortunately this is a very serious problem common to all the member states, to which we must respond with a european approach. strengthening judicial and police cooperation, and defining common definitions of what is meant by specific crimes, are some of the minimum but necessary tools to begin seriously to deal with this phenomenon.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting this interim report on organised crime, the european parliament has taken a very important step: for the first time, it is recognised that the phenomenon of large-scale organised crime must be tackled with a coordinated strategy, at least at european level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposals in this report, starting with the establishment of a single european office to combat organised crime, are therefore moving in the right direction, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i abstained in voting on this report because, although there are some good ideas like the one on the need to establish the figure of the european public prosecutor, which i very much endorse, it is too vague and predictable. in particular, this text seems to ignore the existence of the united nations convention against transnational organized crime, which was approved in palermo by 124 countries in december 2000 and has been fully operational since 2003. this was the first global treaty against organised crime and it has, as main points, the seizure of assets of illicit origin and the abolition of banking secrecy for criminal investigation. any serious text on organised crime approved by this parliament should take this convention as a basis and go beyond it, not just repeat its concepts in a different order.
in writing. - modern organised crime is no longer a territorial phenomenon: the traditional mafia-like organisations existing in some european regions have progressively widened their scope of action; they take advantage of huge illegal competitive advantages and fraudulently pollute the legal economy. thus, the conditioning of the economy, society and institutions is an increasingly tangible phenomenon at various latitudes. organized crime, corruption and money laundering, while remaining separate phenomena, are often characterized by clear interrelationships. i welcome the work of the rapporteur, who has made valuable contributions to the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. in particular, i share the suggestion of a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework to target the economic heart of organised crime and to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. i also welcome the proposal for a more agile and streamlined public administration, which is less susceptible to corruption, for a more rapid and credible criminal justice system and for a more transparent banking and professional system. i would like to draw attention to the need to introduce appropriate anti-money laundering measures to prevent crime from remaining a lucrative business that penalizes the lawful economy, honest businessmen and citizens.
in writing. - it is now clear that organised crime has spread beyond the territories where it was historically confined. the mafia-like organisations that exist in some parts of southern europe have gradually expanded their range of action, thanks to the opportunities offered by economic globalisation and new technologies, by forging alliances with criminal groups in other countries, including on other continents. in view of this, the work of the special committee set up by parliament on organised crime, money laundering and corruption is important. the report which was presented in this house is the culmination of a long process of collaboration with a number of experts from the world of the institutions, the police, the administration, the judiciary and civil society, in order to achieve more effective european and national legislation on the fight against organised crime. that is why i voted in favour, together with my colleagues from the ppe group.
in writing. - i would like to point out, on the sensitive subject of tax havens, also as author of the crim commission's thematic paper on money laundering, that the city of london corporation - the proper name for the city of london - is like "a state within a state, or a mega-tax haven headed by a mayor elected by the 500 banks operating there, through which the bulk of financial derivatives transactions take place". i have already asked mr alfano, the president of the crim committee, to look further into this dark reality, behind which we can see the threads of the hidden financial powers and international speculation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report drawn up by the european parliament's special committee on organised crime. crime has changed its face over time and has been able to exploit all the new technologies to achieve its illicit objectives. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the community's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe, and it has been a key player in the development of the community's relations with the countries of eastern europe. i agree with the need to identify a single definition for organised crime, which should include the crime of organized crime and the crime of money laundering. it is also appropriate to improve the cooperation between member states, the commission, parliament, eurojust and europol in order to make joint action more decisive and effective by strengthening monitoring throughout the eu. i also share the need to extend the confiscation of property due to organised crime to all member states, and to exclude an economic operator for at least five years from participation in a contract throughout the union if he is finally convicted. finally, improved traceability of products, with indication of origin or cip marking, would help to combat counterfeiting and protect consumer health, as i have always advocated.
in writing. − the establishment of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering is an important step forward at european level, which has finally brought the management of these phenomena into a transnational dimension, also through an integrated european approach and a strategy of judicial and police cooperation between member states. the report highlights the bodies available to achieve these objectives (eurojust, europol, european arrest warrant), and advocates their strengthening. the adoption of the report has thus broken down the last remaining resistance to the creation of a european system of protection and guarantee. for these reasons i supported the report by mr iacolino, to whom i pay tribute.
in writing. − ensuring the safety of citizens and the fight against crime is one of the duties of the european union. unfortunately, globalisation has led to a diversification and europeanisation of criminal organisations. alongside the traditional mafias, new groups are operating across europe to carry out their illegal trafficking. it is therefore necessary for europe to keep a high guard, carefully assessing the scale of these criminal organisations and combating them in the most effective way. appropriate, timely measures are therefore needed to enable the union to prevent and counter such threats.
in writing. - in the plenary today, we welcomed the recommendations of mr iacolino on the fight against organised crime, which has now become a global economic actor that takes advantage of enormous illicit competitive advantages and fraudulently pollutes the legal economy. we are aware that the traditional mafia-like organizations in some regions of southern europe have gradually expanded their range of action, thanks to the opportunities offered by economic globalisation and new technologies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. we therefore welcome the guidelines proposed by the rapporteur which contain recommendations for a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework to target the economic heart of organised crime; we also promote a public administration that is increasingly agile and streamlined, and therefore less susceptible to corruption, and a more rapid and credible criminal justice system. finally, we believe that a more transparent banking and professional system and appropriate anti-money laundering measures can prevent crime from remaining a lucrative business that penalizes the lawful economy and all honest european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on organised crime by mr salvatore iacolino. i have voted in favour of a uniform and coherent legislative framework for the fight against organised crime and related activities. it is necessary to develop an appropriate political response at european level, through a precise action plan, adapted to the current situation, including legislative and non-legislative actions. it will be equally important to implement preventive measures to combat this phenomenon, as well as those to combat it. organized crime is no longer a historically and territorially limited phenomenon, criminal organisations have in fact extended their range of action, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by economic globalisation and new technologies. all these reasons make it impossible for each state to fight organised crime on its own. global change calls for global responses: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to propose community legislation containing a common definition of organised crime, including the crime of organising a mafia-like organisation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. the establishment of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering has finally brought these phenomena into a transnational dimension. this statement was a decisive step forward, overcoming the prejudice against the individual state and paving the way for the search for an integrated european approach and a strategy of judicial and police cooperation between the member states. the iacolino report identifies the instruments available eurojust, europol, european arrest warrant and calls for their strengthening in view of this important specific mission. a necessary first step which, by a large majority, has broken down the last resistance to the creation of a european system of protection and guarantee. i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done in preparing us for a concrete and effective final act.
in writing. - it is undeniable that organised crime is no longer a phenomenon confined to a limited geographical area, but has rather acquired a strong international dimension and presence, which certainly makes effective action to combat it more complex. during these months of activity in the crim special committee, we have witnessed numerous interventions, testimonies and examples which demonstrate how common action at european level is necessary to succeed in overcoming a very important challenge: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. italy has often been cited as an example: i do not know whether this is good or bad, but it is certainly a fact that our country has suffered more than others from the phenomenon of crime, which is particularly characterized as a historical and geographical dimension. strengthening judicial and police cooperation at european and international level, thinking about more credible criminal justice, wanting a healthier business and a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework cannot, however, remain just good slogans, but must then find concrete application and effective cooperation, especially by the member states.
in writing. the crim committee, led by its rapporteur salvatore iacolino, has produced an interesting and very much needed interim report for the european union. corruption and organized crime are among the most damaging scourges we face. the european union must therefore adopt a common definition of organised crime in order to set up a european public prosecutor to deal with its cases. the report reaffirms the european parliament's commitment to strengthening the tools to combat cybercrime and to strengthening the control tools to eradicate money laundering in the long term. all its proposals are aimed at promoting the rule of law against the arbitrary regime imposed by organised crime and the mafias, and that is why i give my full support to the crim committee in continuing its work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. there 's not much to add . the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, corruption and money laundering. the protection of victims, the assistance to those who dare to denounce these crimes, the confiscation of property, the repression of clans, the presence of the institutions alongside the citizens, must be the starting point for eradicating an evil that is not modern but which, thanks to new technologies and freedom of movement, can take on increasingly uncontrollable and ferocious dimensions.
in writing. - a successful phenomenon of globalisation is organised crime, which is able to influence the local economy, society and institutions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. its peculiar mode of operation - apart from the most heinous crimes, such as melting people, and even children, in acid - also includes corruption and money laundering, which are accompanied by fraud and tax evasion. these new forms of crime have reached unthinkable global levels. for this reason, the response of institutions and policy must be at the highest level, using new sophisticated technologies and new regulations that can address everything from the most mundane crime to the fraudulent implications of certain international finance and the public procurement system; the work of the special committee set up by parliament on 14 march last year is commendable: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one and very wide and intense, both in terms of the number and quality of the individuals and institutions involved and in terms of the scope of the examination carried out. global crime is exerting a strong pressure on democracies that have been weakened by the crisis, if not supported by common collective action that strictly counter it. the union must therefore strengthen its capacity for action.
in writing. the special commission on organised crime, corruption and money laundering was set up to combat illegal activities that have a negative impact on the economy, freedom and security of citizens. the text of mr iacolino, although it is an intermediate recommendation in relation to the commission's mandate, already points to those ways of solving and managing the problem at european level. we cannot leave the states to fight organized crime on their own. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. a european system which goes beyond an international mandate but rather develops in the direction of constant cooperation between the various national security systems to create a single one, where the exchange of information and the cohesion in action by the authorities is constant and effective.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the proposal for a european parliament resolution on recommendations for action and initiatives to be taken in the field of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. organized crime is no longer a phenomenon confined to certain regions of southern europe; with the advent of economic globalisation and new technologies, traditional mafia-like organisations have gradually widened their range of action. organized crime has become a global economic actor that fraudulently pollutes the legal economy, penalizing and harming honest businessmen and citizens. it is therefore necessary to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level, to create more effective european and national legislation on combating organised crime, corruption and money laundering, in order to achieve a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework to target the economic heart of organised crime.
in writing. the fight against the mafia is a global challenge against crimes which are essentially economic in nature. i believe that we must ensure that the resources illegally acquired by criminal systems can instead be recovered. i believe that informants and witnesses to mafia crime should be protected throughout the european union and i believe that the fight against mafias in the eu needs to be strengthened. i support the need for a common european definition of the crime of membership of a mafia organisation and the end of banking secrecy. finally, i believe that strengthening crossborder judicial and police cooperation throughout the eu and with third countries is vital to protect the financial interests of the union against organised crime, corruption and money laundering.
in writing. - the european parliament, by approving this report, reaffirms its willingness to step up the fight against organised crime throughout the european union. it is necessary that witnesses to mafia-type crimes be protected throughout the union, and to do this it is necessary to reach a common definition of the crime of participation in a mafia organization as soon as possible. the fight against the mafia is a global challenge against economically motivated crime: we must therefore have the necessary instruments to recover the sums acquired illegally quickly.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text of the report as it aims to provide guidance for more effective european and national legislation on combating organised crime, corruption and money laundering. in particular, efforts were made to suggest a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework to target the economic heart of organised crime and to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. the fight against cybercrime is also mentioned, and it is recommended that the future european public prosecutor's office should have an agile, lean structure. efforts have been made to promote more responsible politics, speedy and credible criminal justice, sound entrepreneurship, a transparent banking and professional system and appropriate anti-money laundering measures to prevent crime from remaining a lucrative business that penalizes the lawful economy, honest entrepreneurs and citizens. any person convicted of a serious offence against the public interest, such as trafficking in human beings and child labour, corruption and money laundering, must be excluded from any eu-wide tender for a period of at least five years. the commission has also adopted important amendments calling on the commission to define cooperation and harmonisation in the field of justice and police at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr iacolino's report on combating crime in europe. crime in all its forms has always been a serious scourge for many countries. in italy, in particular, organized crime occupies too many pages of history and over time has damaged our image as a country in the eyes of the world community. finally, it is now recognized that this problem is not confined to a few countries: as a result of economic globalisation and technological developments, organised crime has become a problem in all european countries. it is therefore necessary to establish definitions and rules common to all the members of the union which will enable us to deal with the phenomenon as a community, more effectively, rather than as individual member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on recommendations on action to be taken against organised crime, corruption and money laundering because europe will have to put in place increasingly effective measures to reduce and try to eliminate these phenomena. crime is a threat to the eu because it pollutes our economies and puts honest citizens in difficulty. europe must aim to strengthen cooperation between the authorities of the member states, including exchange and assistance on confiscation and seizure of assets and capital. in view of the strengthening of criminal associations and their cross-border alliances, states will need to have joint action plans aimed at combating illegal trafficking. we must continue to act against money laundering, which enables the protagonists of criminal activities to conceal the origin of their proceeds, and i believe that multiannual programmes with common guidelines can have a positive effect in trying to guarantee the citizen a level of protection sufficient to provide him with an area of security and justice. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's anti-corruption strategy and its implementation in the member states.
in writing. the report by mr iacolino responds to the urgent need to combat carefully and effectively the phenomena of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which unfortunately affect every member state of the union and cause great damage to the legal economy, local institutions and citizens, due to the strong entrepreneurial vocation of criminal groups in all economic sectors. the text identifies the common guidelines (legal standards and common operational instruments, enhanced judicial and police cooperation between member states and with third countries) that are needed to combat organised crime and ensure greater security for european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a growing number of people in europe are applying for social housing, including people with average incomes. the crisis has changed the socio-family profiles of applicants due to the increase in poverty in all member states. housing is a basic necessity and a right that cannot be denied: the continuing economic and social crisis has shown that the market alone is not able to meet the demand for affordable housing, particularly in urban areas with high housing density. the cuts in housing subsidies and the taxation of social housing companies have made the situation worse. it is urgent that the european commission should define a framework for action on social housing, giving member states the possibility of using the structural funds, both for new public housing and for protecting existing housing.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, social housing has always been - when used properly - an extraordinary and valuable tool for promoting access to housing for the weakest sections of society. in this period, one of the most difficult since the war, because of the economic and social crisis we all know, it has proved to be a valuable and indispensable instrument. indeed, it is only through a careful and determined use of public resources that it is possible to introduce housing policies for millions of people in families who otherwise could never have a decent home. that is why i voted in favour of this report with conviction, and it is crucial that the european union develops strong action, including the use of the structural funds, which can provide the impetus for a modern social housing policy that can provide a response to millions of people.
in writing. - i did not support the delli report on social housing in the european union, as i do not agree with many aspects of the text. it focuses heavily on green building but does not provide data to support the actual benefits that would result, nor does it mention the preservation of the historical value and cultural identity of historic centres that risk being completely distorted by the overuse of social housing as proposed. finally, there is a desire in several places to put immigrants at the centre of the member states' policies on social housing, which i cannot share, especially at this time of crisis which is affecting many citizens and families in venice, italy and europe in the first place.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain from voting on this own-initiative report. i agree with the importance of recognising the right to decent and affordable housing for the weakest sections of society, which are no longer just the marginalised or homeless communities but, as a result of the economic crisis and the increasing ageing of the population, also the elderly and the young. in fact, 25 million people in europe are in social housing and this figure is expected to increase. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant aid to the construction of new buildings in the event of a major accident or disaster. it would also help to mitigate the magnitude of housing cycles and housing bubbles that destabilise economies. although i agree with these points, i chose to abstain because i do not agree with some of the proposed measures which, in my view, would violate the principle of subsidiarity. this is particularly the case with the euro plus pact, which is intended to strengthen the economic and budgetary governance of the union and which also includes investment in social housing; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur, mrs delli, for addressing the shortcomings of the current european system. the issue of public housing is complex and involves many citizens. according to figures, 25 million european citizens live in public housing. recent studies also show that 17.86% of the european population lives in inadequate, overcrowded housing (with considerable differences between member states). due to the current economic crisis, demand for public housing is increasing. more and more middle-class families are having difficulty accessing the housing market. i believe that more decisive european action can bring a number of benefits, such as fighting property speculation and re-valuing buildings to meet higher energy efficiency requirements. in this respect, the banking system can play a key role in supporting the housing market. not only building owners but all european citizens could benefit from this.
in writing. - today, in plenary, we approved the report by mrs delli on the social housing sector in the european union. we believe it is our duty to find a practical solution to fill the gaps in the housing market. in fact, in order to meet the entire housing need and to ensure access to decent housing at affordable prices for all, we believe that it is necessary for the member states to ensure that a parallel supply of social housing is defined and organised to supplement what is already naturally available on the market. there are currently about 25 million european citizens living in social housing; more than 100 million are poor or at risk. on the economic side, investing in social housing also means helping the construction sector, which has been badly hit by the crisis, and the restructuring sector, particularly in the renewal of heating systems and renewable energy, which are high-yielding sectors and a breeding ground for jobs. we have therefore come to the conclusion that investment in social housing must, from now on, be given greater consideration in the macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance system of the european union.
in writing. - the delli report has the great merit of defining concretely the value of housing as a fundamental right, and of making this approach the basis for a european economic and social policy which supports its protection and ensures its realization. i voted in favour of the report because i consider that recognition necessary today to introduce the 'home' as one of the priorities of the 2020 strategy. however, i believe that it is necessary to respect the limits imposed by subsidiarity and not to invade a field which has historically been assigned to the powers of those who govern the territories and who therefore know the needs and difficulties of the citizens very well. it would be extremely difficult to impose a common european framework, which would be unfair and far removed from the real needs of those in difficulty.
in writing. when people know what the possibility of benefiting from social housing is, they understand its importance and perceive its necessity more easily. i voted for this resolution because for me social housing is not only an advance of the welfare state but also a necessity to achieve social inclusion. indeed, what better way to help the most vulnerable among us to stabilise their situation than with the social housing system. social housing is a valuable aid for citizens as it provides a solid basis for job search and provides a secure home for retired people. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognizes the dramatic nature of the situation today: the problem of housing shortages, the difficulty of many households in paying their first mortgage, the difficulty for young people and all the other weaker groups, such as the elderly, the disabled, immigrants, separated parents, to have their right to housing recognised. promoting the social and economic role of social housing, moving forward with a european agenda for social housing, encouraging investment for local employment and the green economy, fighting poverty and promoting social inclusion and cohesion: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. − this own-initiative report calls for the community institutions and member state governments to step up their efforts to promote quality social housing that is easily accessible to the most disadvantaged social groups. in this sense, the document repeatedly points to roma and immigrants as a category to be given preference in the allocation of social housing. the rapporteur then includes in her strategy for social housing a series of objectives linked to energy efficiency. the traditional aims of the political group to which the rapporteur belongs, namely the greens, emerge here. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the report is sufficiently critical to be rejected. it should be noted that it also makes no mention of the need to protect the historical value of urban centres, in particular by avoiding that the promotion of social housing deprives them of their cultural identity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on low-cost housing in the eu because i believe that europe today must allocate more funds to prevent families below the poverty line and families close to it from being left homeless and in conditions of severe social hardship because of the severe crisis. today, there are many citizens of the union who live in social housing and the demands are unfortunately increasing. governments will have to commit themselves to not reducing the number of housing units and to making them affordable, especially for the most deprived, by combating discrimination and favouritism in allocations and by ensuring fair distribution systems at affordable prices. moreover, they will have to make the best use of resources so as to reduce the worrying and growing number of homeless people. europe, through the allocation of structural funds, should seek to stimulate investment in order to ensure greater accessibility to housing and to encourage the recovery of the construction and renovation sector, thus creating employment, avoiding dilapidated housing and aiming at the renewal of facilities in order to reduce energy waste, reducing consumption for households and environmental pollution.
in writing. − over a million job vacancies registered in the eu remain vacant because where they exist, there are no suitable candidates and too few people are travelling to work. it has been found that only 2% of eu citizens live in an eu country other than their own. this is of course worse for women alone and with the economic crisis the prospects are not much better. several factors contribute to these disparities: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the gender pay gap, gender segregation in the labour market, inadequate work-life balance measures, to name a few. yet the right to reside and work in another eu country is one of the fundamental freedoms of the union and a key instrument for creating a strong sense of european citizenship. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the role of girls and women is given special attention in the new programming for 2014-2020 and in the new programmes for mobility, both work and study.
in writing. − in the coming years, europe faces major challenges in making the labour market more open and accessible. one objective is that of occupational mobility, which highlights the need to adapt education/training systems better to the new requirements of the labour market. the still too low level of mobility of workers between member states shows that the benefits of the internal market are not yet fully exploited. there are still too many obstacles to mobility, including the lack of knowledge of foreign languages, the lack of favourable conditions for reconciling family and working life and the lack of updating of national social security legislation. it is therefore essential to ensure that the mix of learning opportunities responds to the need to ensure both employability and adaptability of workers throughout their working lives, thereby increasing their capacity for occupational mobility. in this context, it is essential that an increasing number of citizens achieve the highest possible level of education; this is particularly important for women who are temporarily out of the labour market - for maternity or family reasons - and for whom a good level of education is essential for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i fully share the rapporteur's approach and her identification of the main problems. although the internal market commission, of which i am a member, has not been asked to give its opinion, i believe that the implications of the issues facing the eu as a whole are enormous. higher qualifications and greater mobility mean increased efficiency, increased adaptability, better ability to re-enter the labour market after temporary interruptions due to maternity or other family choices. europe, at this moment, needs to hit all the pockets of inefficiency and to extract its potential to resume growth and create jobs and wealth. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. - the european parliament has once again shown itself to be at the forefront of defending the interests of citizens. it is clear that there are still too many obstacles in europe for women who want to move to another country for work. the promotion of flexible working hours, the mutual recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications, the improvement of childcare facilities and family services are very concrete actions that can help women workers in a difficult choice. europe must continue to work to promote the right of free movement of workers.
in writing. - today we have approved the report by mrs ronzulli on the objectives which the member states must set themselves in the coming years to make the labour market more open and accessible. we believe that first of all we must try to adapt education and training systems to the new requirements of the labour market, by strengthening lifelong learning and the acquisition of skills and by improving the systems for the recognition of professional qualifications. moreover, the level of mobility between member states is still too low, and the benefits of the internal market are not fully exploited. we also believe it is essential to address the linguistic gaps of citizens by providing learning opportunities and to ensure the employability and adaptability of workers throughout their working lives by promoting reconciliation with family life. it is clear that these objectives require a shared responsibility between governments, public authorities, employers, social partners and individual citizens; it is therefore essential that more and more people achieve the highest possible level of education, which is of crucial importance especially for women who, having temporarily left the labour force for maternity or family reasons, have greater difficulty in re-entering the world of work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs ronzulli's report because the revival of women's employment requires the full realisation of the right of free movement and actions to promote professional mobility are vital to make the labour market more open and accessible and hopefully achieve the europe 2020 strategy target of integrating 75% of men and women (aged 20-64) into the world of work. the suggestions listed in the report propose awareness raising measures on the situation of women belonging to different age groups in education, integration, migration, employment, social protection and equal pay. the emphasis is also on ensuring safe working conditions and gender rights during mobility phases, and offering suitable services to women who often follow their husbands or partners to another member state, such as vocational courses, language courses and courses to facilitate integration into their new social and cultural environment, ensuring attention to the situation of women with disabilities and vulnerable groups, promoting entrepreneurship and offering clear rules to women to facilitate their access to company management.
in writing. − this own-initiative report serves to keep the focus on the situation of women in the world of work, with particular reference also to occupational mobility. the gender pay gap is still too wide and it is undeniable that women may face greater difficulties in their working careers, even if it is simply a 'biological' issue linked to the maternity period. but this cannot justify different treatment in the workplace and women should have the same opportunities as their male colleagues. women often give up on professional mobility or on any change of job because they are constrained by too many constraints, which should be eliminated or at least mitigated, as this report rightly suggests. finally, i find it positive that reference is made to the particular situation of many women who work in social services and professions, such as caring for the elderly or disabled: the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. as vice-chair of the parliamentary committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am very pleased that a report from the european parliament once again explains how women's work can benefit the economy of the european union; as my report on the impact of the crisis on women's work demonstrated a few months ago. women, like men, have always been ready to be fully integrated economic agents, who must be able to benefit from equal opportunities, training and occupational mobility. this report highlights this and that is why i support it with the greatest gratitude.
in writing. − europe faces major challenges in the coming years to make the labour market increasingly open and accessible. the first is the objective of vocational mobility, which highlights the need to adapt education and training systems better to the new requirements of the labour market, to enhance lifelong learning and the acquisition of skills. secondly, the still too low level of labour mobility between member states shows that the benefits of the internal market are not being fully exploited. there are too many obstacles to mobility, including the lack of knowledge of foreign languages, the lack of conditions for reconciling family and working life and the lack of updating of national social security legislation. the first objective of the europe 2020 strategy is to raise the employment rate for people aged 20 to 64 to 75%. it is not a question of "pink quotas" in the companies: if we can implement a sound policy of gender equality, women will be able to enjoy their rights without any preferential or welfare channels. better education leads to higher employment rates and would contribute to more female employment. the broader positive effects on growth can only be achieved by stimulating investment in human capital and female productivity.
in writing. - the fight against unemployment starts with the creation of jobs and the long-term vision of the programmes that are defined. in this context, the concept of mobility must be included, which will be increasingly indispensable for the search for employment based on personal preparation and flexibility. the report on the educational and professional mobility of women in the european union, for which i have given my favourable opinion, shows that the importance of education is at the heart of the new concept of professional mobility. a higher level of education, particularly for women, but more generally for all of us and especially for young people, broadens the horizon which still too often limits the lives and therefore the professional activities of european citizens to their own territory, to their own family, without being able to seize those opportunities which improve the quality of life and which can create a more solid basis for the future.
in writing. - i supported this report because i support the need to implement measures to support women's educational and vocational mobility, with the ultimate aim of boosting women's employment. in view of the delicate situation at the moment and the fact that women are more exposed to social risks, i believe that action is urgently needed without further delay. the report provides concrete tools for greater dynamism in education and employment, which in turn allows for the promotion of gender equality. the family is the basis of society, but it often imposes obstacles to women's professional mobility: changing jobs, and countries, is a much more delicate and difficult choice for a woman than for a man. this is why the public social protection system must be made more efficient and the organization of working time must be changed if women so request, but also the contractual conditions must be made more appropriate. this report also pays particular attention to those who are disadvantaged. women represent an extraordinary human capital and the necessary investments must be made to improve their education and, consequently, the level and quality of employment: and only then can we make the most of their potential and their talents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague on the educational and professional mobility of women in the eu because i consider it important to identify the necessary instruments that can help to open up the european labour market and make it more accessible to women in the eu countries. europe will have to ensure that the issue of work is placed at the centre of community strategies and will have to commit itself to strengthening the systems that can safeguard it, promoting the tools needed to overcome the difficulties encountered by those seeking employment in other countries of the union. action by the member states to ensure a higher level of education, promoting foreign languages and thus giving citizens greater opportunities for integration beyond national borders, would be crucial. i also think it is very important to give women guarantees at european level of job security when they are forced to leave the labour market for short periods because of maternity and to look after their families. it will therefore be important to promote female employment so that women do not feel excluded from the labour market for natural reasons which safeguard the important values of life and the family, and europe will therefore have to have among its objectives the raising of the female employment rate.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the higgins report on the toll road and a stamp system for private light vehicles in europe. i believe that this system would only satisfy the interests and demands of large-scale industry, and that the entry of these 'suppliers' into the tolling industry would lead to additional costs that would be passed directly on to consumers.
in writing. − the electronic toll service facilitates the movement of vehicles for the transport of goods and people, reducing congestion on european roads and improving the impact on the environment. i believe that important steps still have to be taken before it can become a practical and, above all, positive reality. i agree that a study of the financial aspects of the set system is necessary, as is an improvement of the transport networks through project financing in order to speed up the implementation of the set system. the increased use of online payments is useful to provide greater price transparency and convenience for users not resident in the member state where the toll is charged. i am voting in favour of this proposal and hope that the commission will make a greater effort to make the sept a reality.
in writing. − mobility in europe goes hand in hand with the infrastructures made available to citizens. before a tether toll service and a tolling system for private light vehicles can be set up, a close comparison between the parties involved is necessary. it is important to understand how to create a platform for comparison between the two main stakeholders, which are the toll collectors and the suppliers of set, and the third stakeholder, which is the transport companies and the private motorists.
in writing. - today in the plenary we heard and welcomed mr higgings' ideas on a new toll service and a stamp system for private light vehicles in europe. we agree that the set (european tele-mail system) has not been a success so far; it is therefore necessary for the european commission to engage in dialogue with the member states in order to highlight the advantages of a single system at european level, identifying the aspects which are actually operational. we believe that the adoption of a regulation is the only way to achieve a concrete result in this ambitious project. we are convinced that the use of online payment systems is a priority to ensure price transparency and also a certain level of convenience, especially for users who do not reside in the eu country where the toll is charged. the use of tolls should also be encouraged as the tolling system or time-based charging systems do not reflect actual road use and therefore do not reflect the 'user pays' principle.
in writing. the idea of creating a european telepayment system, a kind of telepass for the whole continent, would have many advantages in itself, especially in terms of convenience for travellers who frequently move between countries in the union with their own vehicle. in italy the system works, and has low costs compared to traditional tolling: however, there are still many motorists who, for various reasons, prefer traditional payment systems, which often generate queues and long waiting periods, especially during periods of increased highway traffic congestion. there are, however, a few points which puzzle me about this proposal from the european commission: first, the possibility that tolls for motorists may increase due to higher operating costs is not excluded but mentioned. i would also not like to see behind this initiative, even if only very subtly, some big european giant ready to supply its technology and to get its hands on this sector, in such a way as to condition this market to its liking. the improvements should be made to make it easier for european citizens to save money, for example on the model of telephone roaming, which has fortunately been steadily declining for some years.
the next item is the joint debate on asylum concerning– the recommendation for second reading from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption for a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down standards for the reception of applicants for international protection (recast) (14654/2/2012 – c7-0165/2013 – 2008/0244(cod)) (rapporteur: antonio masip hidalgo) (a7-0214/2013),– the recommendation for second reading from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national or a stateless person (recast) (5605/3/2012 – c7-0164/2013 – 2008/0243(cod)) (rapporteur: cecilia wikström) (a70216/2013),– the report by monica luisa macovei, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the establishment of ‘eurodac’ for the comparison of fingerprints for the effective application of regulation (ec) no […/…] (establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national or a stateless person) and to request comparisons with eurodac data by member states’ law enforcement authorities and europol for law enforcement purposes and amending regulation (eu) no 1077/2011 establishing a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (recast) ((com(2012)0254 – c7-0148/2012 – com(2008)0825 – c6-0475/2008 – 2008/0242(cod)) (a7-0432/2012), and– the recommendation for second reading from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection (recast) (08260/2/2013 – c7-0163/2013 - 2009/0165(cod)) (rapporteur: sylvie guillaume) (a7-0217/2013).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that some doubts arise when reading this series of compromises that have been made on the right of asylum, because it is certainly true that we must protect people who are in difficulty and who come from wars and we must absolutely help them. it is also true that we must be careful, and eurodac is certainly going in the right direction in this respect, because we do not know who is behind it, whether it is human trafficking or terrorism. but there's something else i want you to think about. i've heard of rights, rights, it's certainly right, but we're sure we'll be able to meet these commitments that we make or make a series of nice words that then serve absolutely nothing. because to say that people have to work in europe when they come from other countries is certainly right if they can, but we don't have jobs for europeans right now! it is certainly right to say that the state must help them, but we are having a hard time helping the citizens of europe and above all i cannot understand why there will be this very strong pressure, especially on the countries of southern europe which are already experiencing a very serious economic crisis and therefore will have to shoulder the burden of refugees in addition to this economic crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like you, i am fighting every day for respect for the individual and for the protection of the most vulnerable, and this means, in the case of asylum seekers, protecting those who are unjustly persecuted by totalitarian regimes in their country of origin. but in the face of the economic crisis and terrorism, european citizens have also become vulnerable: their fundamental rights such as security or access to a decent job are no longer guaranteed. in italy we have three million unemployed; in veneto, my region, 170,000; in europe, 26 million people are unemployed. before making grand and demagogic declarations of intent, such as providing asylum seekers with a job in six months, and before considering the abolition of the crime of hiding as minister kyenge would like in italy, we have a duty to act to protect the interests of our people, who cannot be treated as citizens or b-list persons. we must think first of the millions of unemployed young europeans who are out of work, we must help the unemployed italians, not set up absurd principles that solve nothing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, someone in this debate has said that the work is unfinished: it is true, but it is a very important symbolic work on the road to european integration. complete integration means no internal borders, only one external border. the problems are of course extremely complex, because it is a question of finding a balance between apparently contradictory values, safety on the one hand, and welcoming on the other. i therefore find it symbolically very important that in this extremely complex and long work we start to reflect on the kindergarten, that is, on the institution that speaks of reception, that speaks of human dignity. what we have done is of course imperfect, but it shows what the heart of europe is: the reception. in fact, in the measures we are about to discuss, we can see that a special attention is being paid to the most vulnerable people, even in the most difficult moments when we have to talk about detention, that is, the impeding of freedom, a special attention being paid to the establishment of minimum measures concerning minors. i think this is an aspect which points in the direction of a much more developed approach, but it is significant because at a time when codecision is being applied and in a field which was not previously linked to european integration, it is also based on the view of article 2 of the lisbon treaty, which states that human dignity is the foundation of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there is no doubt that the package containing four dossiers on the common asylum system, with a series of measures to simplify the procedure, protecting the rights of those who have been punished in their territory of origin, as well as unaccompanied minors and vulnerable groups, should be welcomed. the same is true of the eurodac system, which is designed to combat organised crime with increasing severity, the rejection of the intergovernmental method and the approval of the community method, as well as the alert system. there is no doubt, however, mr president, that there are some questions which seem to be unresolved in this matter. the dublin mechanism in particular remains firm in its choice of being the first country of contact, which has to follow all the procedures and bear a great deal of responsibility. we are faced with a choice which again shows a very strong limitation of the european union in relation to that competition of solidarity and responsibility which we ask of the member states as we ask of the commission and the council. a concrete, authoritative and decisive european programme cannot fail to take account of the fact that in some areas the pressure of migration is formidable, and if we want to say no to a europe of the south as opposed to that of the north, we must take account of the fact that the system of burden sharing is not respected in the dublin programme, which is fully confirmed in this respect. that is why we are very concerned about a package which has many good things but some bad things, and particularly about the denial of burden sharing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just this sunday in switzerland a referendum was voted by a very large majority to maintain stricter rules on asylum applications and granting of asylum. swiss citizens have rights which unfortunately we europeans do not have. it would be interesting to have the decisions taken in brussels put to a referendum. we would probably realize how far europe is from its citizens. a europe that pretends to be a continent of unity and solidarity, but which, at the first sign of difficulties, leaves one country alone to deal with its emergencies: this is what happened with italy and the refugees fleeing the war in libya. a war that we didn't even want to start, but our french neighbours; the same neighbours who then closed the ventimiglia crossing, leaving italy to shoulder the entire responsibility for the reception. let us not even talk about germany, which is still criticizing us after two years and has done absolutely nothing. this europe is a petty one and if the citizens could speak out they would make that clear.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that we are concerned about the schengen agreement, because we are facing a very difficult situation in our countries and i cannot understand why we cannot re-establish border controls when there are large migratory flows and this too seems to be an emergency. it is certainly a situation that has sometimes been realized. i read that in an emergency you can have border controls, the emergency can be quantified over a certain period of months, if it is two months, six months and maybe longer, what do you do? he's acting like nothing happened! unfortunately, we have to take into account that this directive must also be applied to those countries which have economic and social uniformity, because unfortunately there are not uncommon cases of people who perhaps go to other countries just to try to exploit the welfare state. unfortunately, europe is not only made up of good citizens, it is also made up of people who may not have good intentions and, as far as crime is concerned, it is much more difficult to combat crime if there are no adequate border controls. and just think that in my country, for example, in veneto, there have sometimes been attempts to repatriate people, members of the community, because they behaved badly, because they may have committed crimes, but after a while they returned safely. and we think that schengen, free movement is all right, but only if there is a counterbalance, if people can be returned and if border checks can actually be carried out.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank our rapporteurs, mr coelho and mr weber, who have worked diligently to achieve the result we are discussing today. we welcome first of all the evaluation and monitoring mechanism in which the european commission, together with the member states and the agencies, plays a leading role, but also the ability to understand that something had to be changed: i am talking about the reintroduction of internal border controls in cases of exceptional circumstances. it is not a question of abandoning the principle of free movement of persons, which is one of the foundations of our union, but of adapting it to a series of needs which have emerged over time. we have also experienced moments of tension between some of our member states - difficult moments such as those following the so-called arab spring for example - and it was appropriate to intervene and regulate because there are still too many differences between our societies and where unilateral and sudden choices can really put the very reasons for our being together in crisis. but to see all our citizens now able to move freely between our countries, without police, without showing documents, is a source of pride and a proof that our union lives and grows with the passing of the years. because some of you, perhaps some of the visitors who are listening to this debate from the stands, are wondering whether we really want to inexplicably go back to a world that no longer exists, and we don't want that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express my sincere congratulations to mrs mccarthy and mr lehne on the work they have done and the high quality of the result. it is superfluous to stress the difficulties which have accompanied two dossiers of such importance and relevance to experts in the sector and to businesses in general. on the one hand, we are creating a single legislative act for european accounting legislation; on the other hand, we are creating a single legislative act for the european accounting legislation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the transparency of information on regulated markets. the compromise reached in the accounting directive, in particular on the creation of a specific regime for small enterprises and on exemptions from certain obligations for micro entities, is acceptable. these are provisions which are a practical way of reducing the administrative burden on small and mediumsized enterprises and give tangible effect to the principle of 'thinking small first' in european legislation. as regards the so-called 'country-by-country' information, i support the compromise reached which limits the obligation to indicate payments to the various third countries to the extractive and deforestation sectors, which unfortunately are more prone to unfair or corrupt trading practices. i also welcome the agreement on the exemption and the important legal alignment of the two texts on this matter. the subject and the country-by-country information will certainly continue to be discussed in the coming months, especially in the light of the conclusions of the european council of 22 may. i believe, however, that the directives we are about to adopt have made a major step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too believe that the outcome of this debate is very important, and the two rapporteurs must first of all acknowledge this. i would like to stress one specific point, which is that the extractive and forestry industries report all their payments to governments. this will enable communities where these activities are robust to be able to claim that these payments translate into actions for development and growth. i would like to say something specific to the commissioner about the hypothetical new transparency laws for businesses. i think it's a very important subject to develop, to finally make available, but i don't think that's the context in which to try to introduce the subject. as you said earlier, i think that in completing the discussion on corporate social responsibility, all non-direct economic information should also include this point. it would be a matter of strengthening measures already decided by parliament and, in any case, of making them consistent.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, competition is certainly necessary to develop the market's full potential: if agreements or cartels are created to distort this principle, the whole economy is affected, not just the final consumer. i would like to mention only two examples, which are particularly significant for italy: the first concerns an apparent agreement between oil producers and distributors to keep pump prices artificially high. there is also a judicial inquiry into this and i thank commissioner almunia for taking an interest in the matter. another striking example concerns the motor insurance sector: although the number of claims is steadily decreasing, the cost of policies continues to rise and has reached levels that are now unsustainable. we have reached the paradox that the insurance of a moped can cost even more than the moped itself and this is absurd! a scooter that has the same price for sale in italy or germany, but can have an annual insurance price from us that is up to 10 times higher than the german insurance market. the whole two-wheeler industry is suffering from this madness, with italy being the main european producer. historic companies such as piaggio di pontedera are in crisis for this reason too and europe cannot remain insensitive and immune to all this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent work of mr sanchez presedo allows us to emphasize once again - and this is never unnecessary - the value of competition in defining the social economy of the european market. it is also significant that we have managed to define as a guideline for future activity that the commission's action must not be aimed at strengthening the existing one, but at encouraging the increase of subjects, of actors, and at bringing out new ideas and techniques so that competition is real. but i wanted to draw the commissioner's attention to two specific issues, which he mentioned in his introduction: the first concerns the need, in my view, to draw up european legislation on collective redress. we cannot have a legislative structure like the present one which deprives consumers of the possibility of coming together to demand that their rights be respected, that they be compensated. because the issue of compensation and the other aspect has its own urgency: we are faced today with a contradiction that may seem absurd. if there is a breach, there is a fine for that breach which is paid by the member states, while there is no provision for consumers to be compensated either. these consumers are penalized twice: on the one hand, because they do not receive compensation and, on the other hand, because they pay through the state as taxpayers for the damage caused by others. i believe that for this reason, the two issues should ....... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the competition policy instruments defined by the treaty of rome, antitrust, state aid and merger control, help to maintain fair conditions and an open and dynamic market. the european social market economy would be unthinkable without competition. it allows for proper pricing and efficient allocation and use of resources. during 2011, the intensification of tensions in sovereign debt markets, concerns in the banking sector, and severe economic uncertainty in a context of high oil prices and slowing global output growth contributed to a sharp loss of confidence and a consequent contraction in output. in my view, competition has proved to be a necessary tool in responding to the crisis: the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the financial sector is able to compete effectively in the global marketplace. for competition policy to be successful, i believe that parliament must be more involved in its formulation, that the commission must be adequately resourced and that the involvement of stakeholders and civil society must be increased.
i would like to say very clearly and emphatically that parliament cannot accept that the cut in direct payments is based on the conclusions of the european council of 7 and 8 february: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we find it unacceptable that the institution with the utmost democratic legitimacy should be circumvented in order to penalise european farmers in such an inconsistent way. pending an agreement, the cut in direct payments should be based on the ceiling for 2014 indicated by the commission in its proposal for the multiannual financial framework, which is consistent with the negotiating mandate approved by this plenary on the direct payments regulation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. we do not think that is fair and reasonable, and that is why we think that farmers who receive aid up to eur 5 000 should be exempted.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is unfortunate that we are even talking about this issue, because it is unfortunate that during the last year of planning we have not been able to give the farmers, the farms, the assurance that what we have promised will be fulfilled. this means that legal certainty is guaranteed over the seven years of the planning period. but, commissioner, you have made a proposal on how to cut back, and you have reaffirmed that here today. i think this is a small sign of support and encouragement for small farms. we're not talking about big numbers here. the european union average is 10 to 15 euros per hectare. i think that makes sense. if small businesses are to survive, we too must give political signals. and i think that's a small, humble sign. but it's a sign in the right direction. of course, it raises the question of the distribution among the member states. i am in complete agreement with mr jahr on this point, but perhaps this could have been solved differently by first fixing the allocations to the member states and then applying this reduction in the member states. that's not what happened. but overall i think your proposal is right and that we should exclude these smaller farms and not confront them again. and that's why i'm going to support your proposal.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral questions to the council on the lack of progress in the council on the financial services files, by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000063/2013 - b7-0208/2013), and to the commission on the delay in the adoption by the commission of financial services proposals, by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-000065/2013 - b7-0209/2013). i would like to inform the house that there is no blue card procedure for this debate, so i shall give mr bowles the floor for five minutes.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, naturally i will not go back to the debate on the substance, but i will just confirm two things at this stage. firstly, the availability of myself, my cabinet and my directorate-general, which has been doing a great job for many years with limited but extremely competent teams, to facilitate - beyond the carrying out of projects such as the commission's role of carrying out strategies, of proposing strategies to you, also to facilitate the work of the council of ministers, in which i naturally participate regularly - the work of parliament, respecting your autonomy and your sovereignty, and then, finally, to participate also usefully in the trilogues which are so important. i confirm this willingness to do what you all ask, that is, to complete what we have announced. it is a question of efficiency for financial stability, to build a healthier, more transparent foundation, to also, beyond transparency and accountability, put a little bit of morality and a little bit of ethics where they had disappeared, and to put financial markets back in the service of the real economy rather than being in their own service, as we have seen for the last thirty years. we do that. it is also a question of credibility for the g20, for the european council, for us as a european institution to do what we have said and what we know is essential to build a healthier basis for the financial economy on our continent. on the second point, i would echo mrs swinburne, who raised it, by mentioning the level playing field. we are dealing with a global financial crisis, even if it has consequences or prolongations which are obviously more european with sovereign debt. but the financial crisis came from the united states. it is linked to a lack of global governance and regulation in the world and it is precisely the g20 that has set this agenda that we are following. we must ensure that we follow the same agenda with our major g20 partners, the first of which for us is the united states - 80% of financial transactions are transatlantic - and that we do so in parallel, each with its own laws. ladies and gentlemen, i am spending a lot of time - i shall be returning to the united states in a few days' time for what i believe will be the eighth time in three years - building and verifying this level playing field also with the other major partners, especially from asia. i thank you and confirm the european commission's full commitment.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, the eu’s overriding priority is to foster a sustainable and a job-rich economic recovery and that is our common objective. in order to succeed in achieving that goal, we must have active engagement and partnership between all of the institutions, between the commission, parliament and council and, indeed, directly with member states. good legislation is a joint effort between all three institutions, and it is often a matter of delicate compromise that can be challenging to reach. you can take it from me, having spent five and a half months in the role of presidency, it can be painstaking at times to achieve that delicate compromise, both within and between the institutions. smooth and constructive cooperation is the key to delivering on those desired results; that is the challenge that faces all of us. in drawing up our priorities, we sought to balance the necessity to respond to urgent new needs that became apparent as a result of the crisis and the ongoing need to work on structural issues – which policy-makers need to address by looking beyond the immediate – to help shape the choices that can deliver a sustainable recovery leading to growth and to higher levels of employment, which we all hope for. we have had a strong record working with parliament and with the commission in achieving results in the important area of financial services, and we will continue to work hard on these files. we are already cooperating with our colleagues from the incoming lithuanian presidency, as i know many of you are, and we will ensure a continuity of council approach to the various files, which i consider to be very important. i know that my colleague in the irish government, minister michael noonan, will attend the econ committee on 24 june for an end-of-presidency assessment and review. this will afford a good opportunity to review the considerable progress which has been made on these files, which i outlined in more detail in my introductory remarks. i can absolutely assure this parliament that we will continue to do everything that we can to progress the financial services agenda in the second half of 2013 and everything we can possibly do to ensure that we maintain the momentum which we have achieved over the last number of months and which i outlined in my opening remarks. i would like to conclude by thanking sharon bowles and the econ committee particularly for their excellent cooperation. we have achieved a lot, and i would like to thank commissioner michel barnier and his team in the commission for excellent cooperation. it is not easy, we have had our challenges, but i think that we have made substantial progress. there is still a lot of work to be done, there is no doubt about that, many members have mentioned it. it behoves all of us in our respective institutions to redouble our efforts and to work hard in a constructive and a cooperative fashion over the months ahead to ensure that we achieve all of our common goals and objectives, particularly in advance of the european elections next year.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 115 (1) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 june, at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear problem of credibility in the words we have heard from president barroso, because i am convinced that he has made a speech with the best intentions. the problem is that in recent years we have seen what european policy has been like, and in italy, as in many other countries - i am thinking of greece or spain - we have adapted to what european policies were, thinking that this was the best way forward. we had a government that made itself the champion of europe, and the result, after a year and a half, was more unemployment, businesses that failed, those that did not fail fled to third countries outside europe and so it is clear that if we want to solve the problem of unemployment, i hope that the policies are different from those that have been in the past, because unemployment - especially that of young people - prevents the future of europe. if young people do not have jobs, it is clear that there will be no families, which are and must be the basis of europe's future. i've never heard anyone say that, so i'd like to ask myself a question. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. maybe not but i'd say it's a reflection, because maybe it's built a little bit badly and like a tree when it grows a little bit badly, then it's likely to fall. can you hear me? i mentioned the euro and a disaster happened, obviously we should not mention it. and so i also ask, perhaps, what europe could do, for example, why not try to protect our own production? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. our products are essential and therefore we must avoid unfair competition from other countries, which sacrifices our enterprises. we must certainly try to reduce taxes; the tax rate in my country is over 50%; it is obvious that this is not going to get us anywhere, but it is also clear that if a state asks us for austerity, it is difficult to reduce taxes. and if we do not reduce taxes, it is clear that companies either relocate - and therefore we must try to avoid relocations - or they close down. and i also wonder whether the question of continued openness to immigration is not a problem. if we have 26 million unemployed, immigrants coming in, what do we give them to do? we're bringing them back into the criminal ranks because that's the only solution they're going to have. so watch out for this field, too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council in june was a source of great expectations: the european citizens are waiting for concrete measures for growth and youth employment and are waiting to see whether the union intends to give its currency a real economic government. we fear they will be disappointed! progress on banking union is important, but the resolution mechanism must be european and led by the commission, which is perfectly possible on the basis of the treaties. the attention that will be given to youth employment is positive, but beyond the advance in january of the 6 billion for the youth initiative, a clear commitment to increase that figure is needed, and instead the budget negotiations are blocked by the council and the internal political imperatives of the member states. the absorption of some of the structural deficit by investment is also likely to be very modest. finally, the long-awaited roadmap for genuine economic and monetary union has been lost and we are moving towards a second extension. all the more ambitious elements such as the debt redemption fund, the fiscal capacity, have disappeared from the horizon, even on contracts and solidarity mechanism, the european council is unable to proceed and tells the commission to present a second communication. we could be happy about that, since we do not like contracts and have proposed an alternative model, but instead we consider the stop to a legislative proposal to be worrying. it is clear that the much-vaunted method of the union is not working, the european council seems to be held hostage by the member states and their electoral deadlines, and at the same time it wants to hold the commission hostage by telling it what it can or cannot do. that is why parliament will vote a very critical resolution in which it reaffirms its proposals, starting with a strong social pillar of the eu with automatic stabilizers, and in which it calls for action to be taken quickly and on the basis of the community method, which is the only method that allows for solid and lasting progress and that gives the euro government the democratic character which is indispensable for its effectiveness and legitimacy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the items on the agenda of the next council is the fight against youth unemployment: a very serious and growing problem: one in four young people in europe is unemployed. in my country, italy, we have exceeded 40%! that is unacceptable data! what are we supposed to do? we certainly need to do more - and i am not just talking about financial resources - the commission has done well in allocating eur 6 billion. are they few? perhaps, the ilo tells us, it would take at least 21 to get any real results. but that's not the point. the point is programming! but do we realise that of the 82 billion euro of unused community resources, reprogrammed specifically for youth unemployment, only 16 billion have been spent? we need more programming! i say this to the commission, otherwise there will be no concrete, transparent and measurable results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is an opportunity to remind you that the double-headquarters is a waste of at least 180 million euros a year. i think we could use them better, it is really time to say enough, also because millions of european citizens are asking us to, including those who have collected signatures online against the double headquarters. i would add that there is no other parliament in the world that has two seats! it is truly incredible, the only sign of this is the increase in prices of almost 150% during the strasbourg session. so we have to think about it and we have to send a clear message to the citizens, we know it's not easy, but we have to find a solution.
in writing. - today's vote on the agenda of parliament provides an opportunity to talk about another matter that is close to my heart. the fact that the european parliament has two places of work is a slap in the face to our citizens. it is useless to remind you of the extreme economic difficulties we are experiencing. eurostat recorded a continuing increase in the eurozone unemployment rate to 12.2% in april. household portfolios are getting smaller, with purchasing power down by 1.9 percent compared to 2012. the transfer to strasbourg once a month for the plenary session is a symbol of the waste of money in the eyes of our citizens. the cost of the double-headquarters is €180 million a year, not counting the 19000 tonnes of co2 created by the brussels-strasbourg journey and return. and all this for using a building for 48 days a year. i would remind you that on 23 october last, 75% of the members voted in favour of a position calling on the governments of the union to solve this problem. i speak as a member of the european parliament and as a citizen of europe: we can't keep hurting each other. how can we expect to be trusted when we ourselves fail to set an example of efficiency and credibility?
in writing. - fortunately, today we have blocked a new, absurd attempt to try to preserve the absurd privileges enjoyed by strasbourg as the 'official' seat of this parliament. the aim was to eliminate the mini-budgets in brussels, to force us to come to alsace more often, and thus increase an incredible waste, estimated at some 200 million euros a year. the citizens of europe can no longer submit to this selfish french blackmail, backed up also by neighboring germany: no country in the world has two parliaments, whereas we have both brussels and strasbourg, and even three institutional seats if we include luxembourg. i must admit that it is a shame to ask european citizens to make sacrifices when we cannot save a considerable sum of money because of the stupidity and stubbornness of some governments. parliament has clearly expressed its desire to have a single seat, and i am anxious to see how long we have to wait before this 'dream' is realised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the romeva i rueda report on combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which is a scourge for the operators in the sector and for the environment.
in writing. - illegal fishing is a serious threat to both the weakest economies and fish stocks. i believe that there is a need for stricter laws and controls on the activities of fishing vessels and their trade with merchant ships. i think it is important to sanction member states which do not respect the agreements of the common fisheries policy, as it is essential to monitor vessels and to follow up illegal fishing activities, only in this way can we limit and eliminate this serious phenomenon in the future. i agree with the commission's proposals for change and i vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the report aims to make a minor amendment to regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 against illegal fishing. it specifies the cases in which the commission may adopt delegated acts, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. - illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a constant threat to european fisheries. the economic crisis is also making itself felt in one of the most profitable sectors for the european union, and for italy in particular, and it is therefore necessary to clearly establish what measures europe intends to take to counteract this phenomenon. i welcome the proposals to strengthen the monitoring of activities at sea to identify those who do not comply with the rules. it is also necessary to ensure a more effective sanctioning model for infringements.
in writing. - recognising that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is one of the most serious threats to marine biodiversity and can cause food security problems in many coastal and developing countries, and agreeing with the rapporteur on the need to combat illegal fishing, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − despite the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1005/2008, illegal fishing has not been reduced and many marine species are suffering. that regulation has brought attention to the difficulty of combating illegal fishing and i voted in favour of amending it because i believe that more efforts are needed to reduce and eliminate it. despite its commitment to tackling iuu fishing, the eu has not yet achieved satisfactory levels of enforcement and stronger action to identify and sanction countries that do not cooperate in combating the spread of this practice would be desirable. i believe that more monitoring of ships at sea, including transhipment operations, is important to ensure a higher level of community alert and i am in favour of the commission's proposals, but i also believe that greater austerity in the controls to draw up lists of non-cooperating countries and greater effectiveness in the application of the appropriate sanctions aimed at safeguarding the biodiversity of the marine system are essential. the commission can therefore intervene by means of delegated acts, but i think that it is necessary to periodically assess its developments.
in writing. - illegal fishing may be economically attractive: in fact, fish caught in disregard of environmental, social and other standards can normally be sold by fishermen at a lower price. wholesale and retail traders buy the fish at a lower price, although they may not know that it was caught illegally. the european union's illegal fishing regulation is therefore only useful if it is fully applied: this is why action is needed to prevent the rules from being circumvented or cheated and to put an end to one of the most serious threats to marine biodiversity, which can cause food security problems in many coastal and developing countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote has adopted the structure of the common european asylum system, an important and innovative step in relation to the community structures of the individual member states. the scale of the asylum phenomenon makes it imperative to have a common management system for the handling of applications and applicants, which in 2012 amounted to over 330,000, to ensure equal treatment at all points of entry into the european union. if the sting of the return directive is removed, parliament could do better by standing up to be the cradle of human rights at the universal level. our colleague hidalgo is right when he says that we have taken a step towards peace and freedom.
in writing. − the amendments concern in particular the guarantees for asylum seekers in detention, the conditions of reception in detention centres, the time limits for access to the labour market, the level of health care provided to persons with special reception needs and the mechanisms for identifying those needs, access to material support and, finally, also information requirements to ensure better monitoring of the basic provisions of the directive. while access to employment could prevent asylum seekers from being excluded from the host society and promote self-sufficiency, it is clear that this provision has an impact on the extremely precarious socioeconomic situation in the countries of arrival of asylum seekers. do you want to ignore this harsh reality?
in writing. - all eu countries are bound by the dublin regulation. the application of this regulation has the consequence that some countries, including italy, have to deal with a number of asylum applications that exceeds their capacity. italy, malta and greece are the most popular 'first-arrival' countries for asylum seekers arriving by sea. i therefore think it is appropriate to introduce a safeguard clause in the regulation for the 'first arrival' countries which are most severely punished, in order to guarantee greater security to the host countries as well. in fact, in italy alone in 2012, 22,160 decisions were made, of which 8,260 people were granted some form of protection, while the remaining 13,900 asylum seekers were denied. what are the criteria for making such decisions? the inevitable bureaucratic red tape of country-to-country transfers creates even more confusion by keeping good people out of eu countries at the expense of dangerous people. the failure of eu countries to revise the solidarity clause of the regulation in a 'burden sharing' perspective demonstrates the lack, if not the absence, of solidarity between states which should be the precondition for the creation of a truly common european system.
in writing. the proposal aims to amend the safeguards for asylum seekers in reception centres. it also seeks to improve access to employment and the level of medical care. it is emphasized that facilitating the employment of foreigners has positive effects not only for the latter but also for the host state. the reasons for detaining a person are outlined and it is stated that no one can be detained for the sole reason of seeking international protection. furthermore, restrictions on movement may not be imposed. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. - it is certainly right and proper to provide protection and shelter to citizens fleeing crisis situations and war scenarios, but unfortunately behind these there is sometimes hidden human trafficking by unscrupulous people who are ready to enrich themselves on the backs of people in difficulty. we must therefore distinguish carefully between those who are in real danger of their lives and those who want to enter europe for other purposes, which may be more or less legitimate, but for which very different rules apply. i wonder, however, whether it is not utopian to promise asylum seekers certain guarantees which unfortunately our fellow citizens do not have either: i am referring to housing and work, for example, rights which have become dreams for thousands of italians too. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. − the new european asylum system establishes common procedures for the management of applications and basic rights for applicants arriving in the eu. the common european regime will also now block the transfer of asylum seekers to member states which are unable to guarantee them decent living conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i could not do that today because we were in second reading, but in committee i voted against this compromise regulation because it has too many loopholes. firstly, the mechanism is incomplete because it lacks a clause allowing, in exceptional situations and obviously limited in time, to suspend transfers. the problem is that the countries which are situated on the external borders and are exposed to the greatest influx of immigrants - i am thinking of italy for example - must not be left alone to deal with the extraordinary situations. the greatest possible inter-community cooperation and responsibility-sharing is needed, in a spirit of full mutual trust between the member states. but this measure does not provide for all that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with what the honourable member has just said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. like italy, we have paid and we have given. unfortunately, the abandonment of europe, the lack of a common european foreign policy, is a damage to the european system. i think it would be right to give equal rules to everyone, but it would be right to do so at a time when we no longer have a collection of states glued to the european union, but we will have a confederation of states, we will have the united states of europe, we will have a president directly elected by the people. so yes, we can give ourselves common standards which are the same for everyone, otherwise we are simply harming the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard many words which pareto would have called virtuosic. people who speak more simply say that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. they say that asylum seekers, those who arrive, should not be detained. if mr kabobo, the asylum seeker, had been held in the reception centres, he would have avoided the shooting deaths of three milanese citizens, including a policeman, who were completely innocent. so we must raise the problem of controlling, perhaps preventively if possible, those who enter clandestinely under the auspices of a noble institution such as the right of asylum and are often protected by organizations which protect immigrants and asylum seekers for their own personal gain, which would be good to investigate in depth, because there are professionals in the anti-mafia in my country but there are also certain well-known professionals in the hairdressing of immigrants and illegal immigrants.
in writing. − according to this report, the right to family reunification will be considerably strengthened by extending the scope of the regulation. the reunification of dependent relatives will be made compulsory and it will be prohibited, under certain conditions, to reject an applicant for whom one or more family unity criteria could apply at the time of the most recent application. in addition, the process of determining the member state responsible will also have to take account of the personal situation of each applicant. after the terrible events of the past, which in milan saw the protagonist an asylum seeker, the perpetrator of a heinous triple murder, it is puzzling that not the slightest thought was given to guaranteeing the right of the 'host' peoples to security.
in writing. the proposal aims to ensure greater protection for those who are subject to the dublin procedure, which identifies the member state responsible for examining an asylum application. the right to family reunification is also to be strengthened and the right to appeal against a transfer decision is established. no one may be detained for having applied for international protection. i am voting against the proposal as a whole.
in writing. − the new rules could have negative consequences for all countries bordering the mediterranean. the regulation will make the asylum application entirely the responsibility of the country of arrival and will no longer allow applicants to be transferred to countries that are unable to cope with it. given the number of migrants arriving on europe's mediterranean coast each year, the reception system may prove inadequate.
in writing. - this directive, which claims to be aimed at combating potential abuse of the asylum system by the submission of instrumental applications, is in fact intended to guarantee the principle of non-refoulement and to allow the person concerned to re-submit the application if his situation has changed in the meantime. the assistance should also be provided at border crossing points and in reception centres and the time taken to process the application should not exceed 6 months (extendable by another 6 months only once). i therefore vote against.
in writing. - the protection of human rights, civil rights and more generally the protection of citizens has long since assumed an international context which cannot be disregarded. each member state has its own policies on the application of the right to asylum and international protection, but a common framework must be found for a single european legislation in this area. the aim of mrs guillaume's text is to overcome national frontiers in order to achieve common minimum standards for the application, recognition and withdrawal of international protection. there is still a long way to go, but we cannot deny that the efforts made so far represent a good basis for work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of this fund for the poor is an act which is first and foremost due to the fact that, i do not think it is necessary to dwell on the gravity of the social crisis which is affecting all the countries of the european union: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. the european institutions must therefore send out signals, first of all by understanding the gravity of the situation and the suffering that our societies are experiencing, and then by taking concrete action. that is why i believe that the establishment of this fund is a first step forward. the european parliament has done its part, three and a half billion euros, now the commission and the council must do the rest, to give a signal that there is a europe that is attentive to these issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we need only look more closely, through the windows of every home, to feel the weight of an increasingly serious economic situation, of a growing discomfort, which we cannot ignore, since we are also here to ensure the well-being of our citizens. now more than ever, europe needs to take responsibility for its own actions and do more than we have done so far to eliminate these deprivations and food deprivation, poverty on the continent and achieve the goals we have set ourselves. it is an ambitious goal, but it must go hand in hand with the appropriations, and the current funds are not sufficient: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i think is a very useful one. and if we add the citizens for whom the services are provided, these figures go down even further, and that is why we have to be consistent between statements and decisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, poverty is not confined to the developing countries. the european union, despite being a region with a highly developed economy, is a region in which conditions of poverty, sometimes extreme, and social exclusion are rife, forcing thousands of people to live in precarious and vulnerable conditions. the situation has worsened considerably since the economic crisis, and the most vulnerable people are the ones who pay the price, such as children, large families, the unemployed. i am not going to go into the details of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome this fund, i think it is a positive page for europe, showing a face of solidarity, which is welcome! " we are in the middle of a crisis, the worst the continent has ever been through, and the data is constantly being updated: the number of people in dire need is increasing day by day, and the figures are really impressive, because if in 2010 it was 8.7% of the percentage of people who were not able, in europe, gentlemen, to eat noble proteins at least once every two days, the latest figures tell us that these numbers are growing impressively; so the 4 million homeless are no longer 4 million, but many more! think of the tens of millions of children who are most at risk and who will have permanent scars for the rest of their lives. i voted for the obligation, i think we must be able to give this money in practice as soon as possible to be close to our citizens.
in writing. - i did not support the costello report on the european fund for the poor because i believe that its purpose, namely to support the poor, can be more effectively achieved by the member states. the report calls for the community institutions to decide on the programmes to be implemented, by centralising management and increasing bureaucracy. i believe that such a governance of the funds would not only violate the principle of subsidiarity but would in fact distance the citizens in need from real and effective aid.
in writing. − in europe, many people live below the poverty line and a small percentage benefited from the european food aid for the poor programme in 2011. the european union also exists for these people, because they receive food from the eu and so they understand that the european union thinks of them. i think that the proposed fund is a very good help for the poor, although it will certainly not help all the people in economic difficulties, but it must be seen as an instrument which complements the others already existing in the fight against the most serious forms of poverty. i agree with the rapporteur that the rules governing this fund should be as simple as possible and should contribute as much as possible to the reduction of poverty and social exclusion without the administrative burden being placed on the beneficiaries. i believe that this fund is proof that europe is taking its responsibilities in relation to poverty and social exclusion and therefore i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the programme for aid to the poor has allowed member states since 1987 to release surplus food stocks to distribute them as aid to the poor. the project will cease at the end of this year, due to the decrease in available resources. the proposal therefore aims to reintroduce the instrument for at least eur 2,5 billion in the 2014-2020 programming period. the critical aspects are related to the fact that the distribution of aid can be better met by the member states and that the intervention of the commission only ends up producing more bureaucracy, jeopardizing the principle of subsidiarity and discouraging those who would need it from applying. for these reasons, and given the sensitivity of the matter, i am voting against.
in writing. − 40 million european citizens live in conditions of food deprivation and extreme poverty. in 2011, more than 25 million european children were at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and of these, almost 6 million cannot afford new clothes. important figures, which i can only be impressed with as a mother, especially when it comes to children. in the face of such figures, we cannot stand by and watch. the new fund is a practical expression of the european union's solidarity with its most vulnerable citizens. this will be practical help for the disadvantaged sections of the population, with particular attention to the homeless and children. the european fund for the poor is a key instrument available to europe to alleviate the effects of the economic and social crisis. however, the amount of €2.5 million foreseen by the commission for the period 2014-2020 seems to me to be wholly insufficient to achieve the objectives set out in europe 2020. i am referring in particular to the commitment to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people at risk or in situations of poverty and marginalisation.
in writing. - considering that the economic and financial crisis is nevertheless exacerbating poverty and social exclusion across the union and agreeing with the rapporteur that the fund has the potential in general to play an important role in improving the lives of people on the margins of society, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the european commission and the member states, during the negotiations on the eu's long-term budget, had proposed a sharp reduction in the amount of money available, from the 3.5 billion allocated so far to 2.5 billion. parliament, through its resolution on the maintenance of the european fund for the poor, wanted to offer a significant instrument against the global crisis and of solidarity with the most vulnerable europeans. i believe that all europeans should be supported by the institutions and that the maintenance of the above-mentioned fund is an important achievement, especially in view of the current economic situation and the fight against poverty in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i think that the cut of one billion euro proposed by the european commission and the member states in the allocation of the european fund for the poor is inappropriate. the eur 3.5 billion at its disposal is vital for the almost 120 million european citizens at risk of poverty or social exclusion, of whom more than 40 million suffer from severe material deprivation and more than four million are homeless.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a new european fund for aid to the most deprived and i welcome the fact that the eur 3.5 billion for the next seven years will continue to be used to finance the canteens of humanitarian organisations to provide meals for europe's citizens in need. europe, despite the overall crisis which has led to cuts in appropriations for several sectors, has not cut social spending and in italy this appropriation will be used to finance over 15,000 canteens and many other associations providing food aid to families. the serious crisis situation is exacerbating poverty in all the countries of the union and the allocation of funds represents a concrete and tangible effort by the european institutions which have decided to support the most needy by trying to combat the phenomenon of the "new poor" also with the european social fund. europe must also commit itself to providing the best possible support to those most in need, with ever-increasing interventions, and must have the fight against poverty as one of its objectives, by considering actions to reduce the number of citizens at risk within the next few years.
in writing. the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the european fund for aid to the most deprived (fead) was voted on today. i think that this report is an acceptable compromise which integrates the different views expressed within the empl committee and also takes account of the views of the agri, budg, cont, femm and regi committees. in a time of worsening economic crisis and an increase in the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, this report proposes concrete solutions to help the poor in the union and to meet their most urgent needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the infiltration of terrorists and other members of criminal organizations into europe through the exploitation of the asylum system is a current problem with unforeseeable consequences. the possibility for the authorities designated by the member states and the european police office to request the comparison of the data from the fingerprinting equipment with those recorded in the eurodac database, for the purpose of combating terrorist offences and other serious crimes, represents a significant step forward compared to the previous proposal. i am convinced that the measures contained in the report will make it possible to prevent these situations and at the same time to supplement european security. the work done by the rapporteur is going in the right direction and that is why i have given you my support.
in writing. - i supported the macovei report on the establishment of the eurodac system for comparing fingerprints. eurodac will offer member states' authorities and europol (european police office) the possibility to consult its central fingerprint database for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. this system will make law enforcement more effective and will certainly make it easier to combat crime.
in writing. − the aim is to give the member states' law enforcement authorities and europol the possibility of consulting the eurodac central database for the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. in addition to fingerprints, data transmitted by eu countries include: the eu country of origin; the person's gender; the place and date and application for asylum or the person's arrest; the identification number; the date on which the fingerprints were taken; the date on which the data were transmitted to the central unit. the report is aimed at the activity of organised crime networks in third countries in seeking to exploit the asylum system in an illicit manner in order to bring their members into the eu. according to europol, human traffickers also try to abuse the asylum system by submitting applications with false information about the country of origin. in view of the above, the report welcomes the possibility for the designated authorities of the member states and europol to request the comparison of fingerprint data with those recorded in the eurodac database for the purpose of combating terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences.
in writing. - this proposal should be read in the context of the recent datagate scandal, my commitment to data protection and the framework of the debate on refugees within which this legislation is situated. i must congratulate the rapporteur on her work, because the text that has been adopted, including my vote in favour, contains answers for those who fear abuse of access to data, as well as for investigators who need adequate and up-to-date tools to deal with the challenges of illegal immigration and the security needs of citizens. fingerprints are, pending technological developments which make the cost of the latest innovations (biometric printing) affordable, the only tool at our disposal to react to false declarations of identity and to quickly trace a suspect's file. it is good to regulate its use and, above all, to make it available to all member states in a system where it can circulate freely.
in writing. − the proliferation of terrorists and criminal organisations in europe through the abuse of the asylum system is a problem that should not be underestimated and has serious and unforeseeable consequences. the possibility for the authorities designated by the member states and the european police office to request the comparison of the data from the fingerprinting equipment with those recorded in the eurodac database, for the purpose of combating terrorist offences and other serious crimes, represents a major improvement on the previous proposal. the measures provided for in the text will make it possible to prevent such situations and at the same time to protect the safety of citizens. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. − the eurodac system gives all eu member states access to a fingerprint database, which allows to find out whether the asylum seeker has already applied elsewhere or has already entered the eu illegally. this applies to those over 14 years of age. as organised crime seeks to exploit asylum seekers to bring their 'true allies' into the eu and expand into the common market, eurodac is an important development in combating this phenomenon. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. the 'eurodac' system, which allows the comparison of asylum seekers' fingerprints, is certainly a step forward. the system will allow national authorities to compare the fingerprints of those who have applied for international protection, checking whether the application has already been lodged in another member state or whether the applicant has entered the eu illegally in the past. in europe, there was a need to simplify existing procedures and allow member states to determine quickly who is responsible for examining an asylum application. it is equally important that legislation allows the database to be consulted for the prevention and investigation of terrorist offences.
in writing. - we have approved the new rules on asylum which establish common procedures for all member states. we believe that it is necessary to manage the applications and basic rights of asylum seekers arriving in the european union with a single legal system at european level. therefore, in order to overcome the differences between the existing national procedures in this field, we consider it a good rule to apply common deadlines for handling applications and to train the staff dealing with applicants more rigorously; in addition, it is essential that new rules are drawn up for the special needs of unaccompanied minors and other more vulnerable persons and categories. asylum seekers will also not be transferred to eu countries where there is a risk of inhuman or degrading treatment; in addition, an early warning mechanism will be introduced to deal with problems in national systems before they develop into full-blown crises with domestic or international repercussions. finally, we consider it important to provide that the police forces of the member states and europol may have access to the fingerprints of those entering, in order to combat better the ever-increasing risk of crime and terrorism in europe.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data,
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague on the establishment of the eurodac system for comparing fingerprints because today we need ever more effective measures for the prevention, investigation and detection of crime, including terrorism, and we need ever more careful and coordinated management of asylum applications, which are also used by organised crime in an illicit way to allow their affiliates access to eu countries with the aim of manipulating them within our territory. it is essential to strengthen our defenses through a coordinated system setting rules aimed at creating common procedures for the handling of asylum applications and it is important to ensure that member states' authorities and europol have access to the eurodac database to carry out fingerprint checks in order to enable the identification of those seeking asylum and those who have been detained for irregular border crossings. the controls would make it possible to verify whether asylum seekers have already applied in other eu countries and whether they have entered the territory irregularly, which would undoubtedly represent an important step forward for the protection of our countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to free movement within the european union, which has been considerably strengthened by the schengen agreement, is without doubt one of the greatest achievements of the european union: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a step in the right direction. migration flows are not the problem in themselves, but are the result of the difficulties in managing immigration policy in some countries of the european union. some member states are asking other countries for more guarantees and threatening to close their borders, but when we ask them to tackle the problem together, sharing the responsibility and the costs, the same countries do not agree. what the citizens of europe need is a european policy capable of managing immigration at european level, not a closure of borders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the reform of the schengen agreements has achieved an important milestone, because for the first time the community method prevails over the governmental method: this means that the commission will have more power to put the common interest of europe before the interests of individual states. it is not just a technical reform, it is much more important, because it emphasizes that borders are becoming more and more european and less and less a monopoly of individual states, and at a time like this when there is a very strong tendency to let national egoisms prevail, this choice goes against the trend, reinforces the idea of a united europe, without barriers within itself, which favours freedom of movement. it is a matter of great political importance, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - as for mr coelho's report, i voted in favour, aware that better regulation helps to bring clarity and to avoid unpleasant diplomatic inconveniences. we all remember when france closed its borders to some immigrants coming from italy, and how this triggered anti-european instincts and, rightly, a feeling of being left alone by a europe of bureaucrats. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules are applied in the member states. clear deals, long friendship.
in writing. the report stresses that migration, with its distinctive cross-border characteristics, does not in itself constitute a danger. the member states must therefore be prevented from attempting to re-introduce such controls. generally, the eu must be notified of such an intention six weeks in advance. in the event of a serious threat, internal border control may last for a maximum of 30 days, renewable once for a further 30 days. since it is not possible to quantify an emergency with such precision, i shall vote against this proposal.
in writing. - you have to start from a premise: the free movement of persons within europe can certainly be considered a goal that has been achieved in principle, and which allows many citizens to move easily between different countries in europe without having to undergo heavy bureaucratic red tape at the borders. however, there are non-secondary aspects that need to be assessed: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, appropriate control measures should be provided for, in particular in certain circumstances and on certain occasions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am glad that the commission has taken them up. without the right measures, a good idea can turn into a total failure, which would affect the whole european union.
in writing. - having regard to recent events which have put to the test the balance to be struck between security and freedom of movement in the schengen area, and agreeing with the rapporteur on the need for a principle of more coordinated and collective decisionmaking in the event of reintroduction of internal border controls, i voted in favour of the proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour because today's vote strengthens coordination and cooperation at european union level and sets out criteria for the reintroduction of border controls by the member states. before the final text is adopted, the debate in parliament will have to be taken into account, since the text presented today does not exactly conform to the will expressed by parliament itself. the mechanism proposed is certainly more efficient and rigorous, it leaves it to the member states to solve many of the problems encountered in management, but the present situation also leaves us with a europe where too often the principles of freedom of movement are called into question and where the free movement of persons is undermined by sentiments which sometimes take on the characteristics of xenophobia. it is clear that with this vote today parliament has carved out for itself, in this new context, a useful function borrowed from democracy.
in writing. - i voted on this report because i thought about the long work that went into it and the importance it has for my country. italy, which is the destination of large migratory flows, has already seen its borders closed by other schengen area countries to outgoing irregular immigrants in the past, and has every interest in the proper functioning of the borders. the measures provided for in this text ensure that the member states have control of the situation, dealing with each other as equals, instead of always having to turn to the european commission. this is not a trivial solution, because in this case centralising decisions could lead to not taking fully into account the problems faced by the state in special circumstances. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the regulation establishes a mechanism for evaluating and monitoring the schengen agreements, to see whether they have been fully applied, whether their acquis has been transposed, etc. the importance of implementing a new accession mechanism and of not discriminating between the states already in schengen and the applicant countries is emphasised. this is based on the completion of questionnaires and on-site visits with or without prior notice. i am voting against this proposal.
in writing. - as regards the evaluation mechanism approved today, we believe that the right to free movement within the schengen area will be better guaranteed by reforming its governance. in future, inspectors who ensure compliance with these rules will be empowered to make unannounced visits to prevent illegal border checks by national internal border authorities. in the case of external border inspection, however, the member state concerned must be informed at least 24 hours in advance. the teams will also be composed of experts from the member states, the commission and the european union agencies. the schengen borders code (sbc), as amended by our vote today, makes clear that any reintroduction of internal border controls is an exception and can only be undertaken as a measure of last resort, for a limited period of time, on the basis of specific objective criteria and an evaluation monitored at eu level. we have also agreed that in the event of a serious threat to public policy or internal security, controls may be re-established for 30 days, which may be extended for a maximum of six months.
in writing. - considering that the agreement addresses most of the european parliament's concerns and that it represents a substantial improvement on the current schengen rules, strengthening their governance and agreeing with the rapporteur, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am particularly pleased with the rules that have been negotiated for micro-entities. simplifying the administrative life of family businesses, small craft enterprises and other enterprises whose size falls within the definition of a 'micro-enterprise' is, in my view, an objective that can no longer be postponed, all the more so because it is one of the measures that the commission proposed as soon as the crisis broke out, when it was hoped that it would last only a few months, not for so long. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. the proposal aims to simplify the administrative burden on smes, increase budget clarity, increase consumer protection and make payments to governments more transparent. smes are the most affected by the crisis and bureaucracy, as they are the ones who bear disproportionate burdens. member states may exempt them from the obligation to publish the annual accounts. in order to increase transparency in payments to governments, the public interest in knowing the extent of financial flows from large companies to governments in developing countries is also protected. governments must optimise the use of these resources. i vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - this report, which i voted in favour of, has the ambitious and important objective of simplifying the bureaucratic aspects of budgetary commitments for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission's proposal, which is based on the assumption that further simplification is always possible and feasible, certainly provides some interesting ideas for making the budgetary obligations for companies lighter and goes a step further by lowering the threshold to include companies benefiting from the measures adopted.
in writing. - we welcomed the report on the directive on the annual and consolidated budgets of certain types of undertakings because we believe it is a good rule for undertakings active in the extractive sector and using primary forest areas to indicate, on an annual basis, the payments made to the governments of each country where the payment has been allocated to a particular project, if relevant to the recipient government. we are confident that disclosure of these payments to governments could provide important information on the flow of revenue and would allow citizens to have greater control over the authorities. furthermore, considering that greater transparency should promote better governance and fight corruption, we believe it is crucial to improve corporate accountability by also allowing investors to make more informed choices. we therefore welcome the proposal by mr lehne as a step forward in the direction of transparency and the responsibility of companies themselves. finally, we believe that if all industrial sectors reported payments, country by country, and if these financial data were made public, this could help the member states of the european union and developing countries to reduce tax evasion and avoidance in all sectors.
in writing. − considering that greater transparency of such payments to governments could promote better governance, fight corruption, improve corporate accountability by also allowing investors to make more informed decisions and agreeing with the rapporteur in welcoming the proposal as an important step forward for transparency and accountability, but also in the context of development, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - mr lehne's report, which has been the subject of lengthy negotiations and complex trilogues, proposes replacing the current accounting directives in a single document by introducing a special system for small and mediumsized enterprises to reduce administrative burdens. the reform also introduces new requirements for the publication of financial statements for large companies and public interest entities operating in the extractive sector and in the deforestation of virgin forests.
in writing. - the financial market is often mentioned as a problem in the current crisis. while it is true that certain superficial behaviour did trigger an explosion in the real economy, i believe that it was wrong behaviour in a functioning context, and not the other way around. i therefore believe that it is very important to restore confidence in operators who do their job well. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to raise the standards of transparency for securities listed on regulated markets. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. − the transparency directive 2004/109/ec requires that issuers of securities in the eu market ensure adequate levels of transparency by disclosing information to be shared with the eu market. the report considers the abolition of the quarterly publication requirement for small and medium-sized companies and the publication of information on shareholdings conferring voting rights - in order to avoid unclear escalations to corporate governance. mining companies are required to inform the public about payments made to national governments - publish what you pay initiative. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - we have today welcomed the directive on the new transparency rules for large oil, gas, mining and forestry companies. the new legislation aims to make firms using strategic resources and governments granting them more accountable. the main objective is to harmonise european accounting standards and to reduce red tape. we therefore believe that the large companies in question should be obliged to disclose the details of their payments to governments for each extraction project. in order to ensure full transparency, the information must be detailed for each lease or licence obtained to access the resources. in addition, we have approved an anti-avoidance clause to ensure that companies cannot artificially divide or aggregate payments to avoid disclosure. payments of production rights, dividends, bonuses and taxes will be made public; in addition, payments for infrastructure improvements will be disclosed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - considering that the increasing volatility of global financial markets is driving more and more investors to demand more information about the practices of companies, and agreeing with the rapporteur that the legislative proposal under consideration is part of the framework of corporate social responsibility (csr), and aims to promote transparency and openness in financial markets, i voted in favour.
in writing. oil, gas, minerals and wood: companies forced to disclose payments to governments large oil, gas, mining and forestry companies will be required to disclose details of their payments to governments for every extraction project, thanks to new rules approved by parliament today that aim to make firms using strategic resources and governments granting them greater accountability. the information will have to be detailed project by project, i.e. for each lease or licence obtained to access resources, such as a mine or oil field. in addition, an anti-avoidance clause was agreed to ensure that companies cannot artificially divide or aggregate payments to avoid disclosure. finally, these rules will allow for greater harmonisation of european accounting standards and the elimination of a lot of red tape to make life easier for small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. - with today's vote, major oil, gas, mining and forestry companies will now be required to disclose details of their payments to governments for every extractive project. companies using these strategic resources will have to be more accountable and transparent, especially with regard to payments to governments. finally, a great deal of bureaucracy will be eliminated in favour of small and mediumsized enterprises in this sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal that the european commission has put to us for a cut of about 5% in direct payments to farmers was based on the conclusions of the european council of 7 and 8 february 2013. however, the procedure for drawing up the next multiannual financial framework is far from being completed, and there are still strong differences of opinion between parliament and the council which cannot be taken for granted by the final consent of this house. we cannot therefore accept that the commission's proposal is based on an agreement which is entirely internal to the council and which does not take account of the repeated positions of parliament. we thought it more valid to base the calculation for the aid applications submitted for 2013 on the ceilings presented by the commission in its original 2011 proposal on the multiannual financial framework, so that we can guarantee european farmers a cut in direct payments much lower than that envisaged by the commission, which at this point we hope will take account of the vote expressed by the house.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that farmers should not have to pay the price of a crisis which has been afflicting us for years. i do not think that the way out of this situation is necessarily to implement keynesian policies, but we cannot even pretend to extract resources, which are already in the budget, from where we should be moving the economy. i congratulate the rapporteur on his ability to defend the position which parliament has entrusted to him.
in writing. − the legal basis of the proposal refers to article 11 of the financial framework (regulation 73/2009), on direct payments, as amended by regulation (eu) no 671/2012. it is stated that if the sub-ceiling is exceeded in a given year, a cut in direct payments must be made before 31 march, so that expenditure is brought under the ceiling. the commission proposes that the amounts to be paid to farmers above eur 5000 be reduced by 4.9%, except in bulgaria, romania and croatia, which are gradually introducing direct payments. the critical points of the proposal are related to the fact that the cut is based on the sub-maximum of the european council of 7 and 8 february 2013 and that a crisis reserve of 2.8 billion is to be introduced - but the procedure to reach the next mff is still ongoing, parliament has not yet given its consent. i do not think it is right to accept a proposal which has not been amended accordingly, so i shall abstain.
in writing. - agricultural policies still represent a large share of the employment basket in europe, so there is an urgent need to protect farmers with european legislation that safeguards their interests. due to the crisis, direct payments to farmers were cut by 5% for the year 2013 and the delay in the payments from the member states to the farmers concerned is likely to seriously damage the agricultural system. now, while it is true that there is a need to save and calculate an adjustment rate for eu direct payments to farmers, one cannot ignore the consequences of such a sharp cut in aid, rather it should be considered a cut in direct payments with a smaller impact.
in writing. − considering that the proposal also incorporates the european council's wish to include in heading 2 a crisis reserve of eur 2.8 billion (at 2011 prices) for the period 2014-2020, to be financed through financial discipline, i agree with the rapporteur that a certain level of financial discipline may have to be applied to aid applications submitted for the year 2013.
in writing. − the european council conclusions of 7/8 february 2013 provided for the financial discipline mechanism in the regulation to bring the eu annual budget into line with the multiannual financial framework (mff). this is because preliminary estimates of direct payments indicated the need to reduce the amount of payments to farmers for the year 2013 by as much as €1471.4 million (4.9%), including €424.5 million to form a reserve fund for crises. this cut will unfortunately reduce the aid to farmers on applications for 2013. it will be important to protect farmers, as payments are normally made late by the member states and the adjustment rate should therefore not be applied to those who have submitted aid applications in years other than the one to which the financial framework applies. the mechanism of financial discipline and modulation introduced by the 2003 cap reform has already resulted in a steady reduction in direct aid to farmers.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. the amendments to the 2006 regulation are based on a well-established culture of operational and disciplinary verification, as is also evident from the particular cases identified. it is important to recall the commission's position that the legal basis for this revision of the regulation is article 77 (2) tfeu, which is part of the common governance of the policies of regular immigration and border control, as a necessary pillar for the maintenance of the european area of freedom and justice. it is essential that the tensions which are running through the process of european integration, for example in monetary matters, should not extend to this area and that the reference to a principle of solidarity should remain clear, otherwise the spirit of unity would be weakened, which in this area - given the sensitivity of the problem which directly affects the field of civil and human rights - would find a wide media echo. moreover, the establishment and development of frontex shows that managing immigration on a solidarity basis is not only a necessity, but can also be an opportunity.
in writing. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. i vote against that.
in writing. - today, in plenary, we welcomed the proposal to amend the regulation on the schengen borders code, with the aim of making it an increasingly clear and comprehensive mechanism. the contractual and legal framework of the european schengen area has given birth to what we are proud to call the schengen acquis, which now includes 25 countries and which we hope will soon include bulgaria and romania. we fully support mr papanikolaou's proposal to improve the existing legal and regulatory framework. the basic principles on which we believe the new regulation should be based are the strengthening of the rules to facilitate, simplify and further develop free movement in the european schengen area and the promotion of a rigorous framework to ensure control and security at the external borders of the member states. we also consider it a priority to ensure the free movement of european union citizens and other persons enjoying this right. finally, we are confident that the strengthening of the external borders will ensure legal certainty and increase solidarity between the member states, which is of the utmost importance at this historic moment.
in writing. - considering that the proposal aims to make the schengen borders code a clearer and more comprehensive mechanism, taking into account the practical experience gained by the member states in applying the schengen borders code and agreeing with the rapporteur that the strengthening of the external borders will ensure legal certainty, increase solidarity between member states and allow further economic development, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − this vote will ensure that the reform of the right of free movement within the schengen area is better protected than in the past. inspectors who ensure compliance with schengen rules will be empowered to make unannounced visits to prevent illegal border checks by national authorities at internal borders. the principle remains that migration and the crossing of external borders by a large number of third country nationals will not be considered a threat to public policy or internal security.
in writing. - the report by mr papanikolau agrees with the commission that the existing schengen borders code should be amended, aiming to strengthen and improve the existing rules by further developing free movement within the schengen area in support of a rigorous framework for the control and security of the external borders of the territory of the member states.
in writing. − we welcomed the draft allocation of seats among the 28 countries of the european union, in view of the next elections in 2014. we agree with the report by mr gualtieri and mr trzaskowski, who propose that, for the next european elections to be held at the end of may 2014, 12 member states lose one seat and that no member state be allocated more seats, in order to be able to receive croatian meps. we therefore welcome the proposal, aware that a review of the agreement will be necessary before the 2019 elections, to be submitted by the end of 2016. the rapporteur himself admits that this is the least imperfect of the possible solutions, although it is certainly not the best. we believe, however, that it is essential that the principle of degressive proportionality be respected, whereby members from larger member states represent more citizens than those from smaller states. finally, it is important to stress that the agreement reflects all kinds of changes in the number of member states and demographic trends, in order to continue to respect the overall balance of the institutional system, as required by the european treaties in force.
in writing. − having regard to the draft decision of the european council establishing the composition of the european parliament and the request for approval by the european council under article 14 (2) of the treaty on european union, and having regard to its resolution of 13 march 2013 on the composition of the european parliament with a view to the elections in 2014, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation of my colleagues on the draft decision of the european council, which provides for a reduction in the number of meps and establishes the new composition of the parliament that will take office following the next european elections in 2014. the new composition will take account of the 751 seats laid down by the treaty of lisbon and the entry of croatian members.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry that some of our colleagues have left because whenever we talk about solidarity, they seem to get hives. i would like them to understand - and i would like them to be here - that social investment helps to stabilize the economy, helps to promote employment, helps to improve the skills of the workforce: the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national authorities responsible for the coordination of the activities of the european union's external action. we are at a time when, needless to say, the average family income is falling, unemployment is increasing, poverty is increasing even among those who have a job, not to mention unemployment which in europe is over 10%, and with young people we are at truly staggering figures, in some states it is over 50%. but i would like to reassure those states that always feel like creditors because in 2011 italy was the first net contributor to the european budget and - i quote former italian prime minister mario monti, statement in berlin - in the last ten years it has paid more than was justified. let's learn to do the math and be supportive when it's our turn!
in writing. - i thank mrs berès, on behalf of the empl committee, for raising an oral question which i believe is of great importance to all of us, namely the establishment of a social economy based on solidarity, inclusive and not just subject to the logic of the market. investing in social development means offering opportunities not only to all those categories of people who are struggling to find their way into the world of work, but also to all those young people who have lost their faith in the future, and i am talking about the approximately 6 million young europeans under 25 who are unfortunately unemployed. moreover, investing in this sector also means believing in those social enterprises which represent 10% of european enterprises, which employ some 11 million people and which should be supported by appropriate forms of financing, by improving the legal and fiscal environment and by adopting a european social etiquette.
in writing. − investing in social services is essential to overcome the economic crisis that has hit the european union; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe it is important to help the unemployed and young people to find decent work, eliminating poverty and social exclusion; the resources of each member state should be spent more effectively and more effectively in order to prevent social and economic risks and to reap benefits. i welcome the commission's recommendation on child poverty, which calls for its prevention and elimination through social assistance. finally, i agree with the call on the member states to extend the principle of enhanced cooperation to employment and social policies where there are minorities blocking the necessary progress. i welcome this motion for a resolution and will vote in favour of it.
in writing. − smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. only by investing in social will europe be able to achieve the goals it has set itself. but we must move beyond the logic of passive policies, that is to say, of simply supporting firms and workers affected by the crisis, and instead devise a system of measures designed to look beyond this difficult phase and create the conditions for european companies to look to the future with a growth perspective.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal, given that adequate and well-targeted social investment is needed to stabilise the european economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the vlasák report on regional policy in the context of wider state aid schemes. i share the views of my colleague: it is essential that administrative procedures be simplified in order to modernise state aid.
in writing. − the rapporteur has identified some key problems in the administration of the cohesion financial instruments and i therefore announce a favourable vote. i would particularly like to support the points made in paragraphs 7 and 13 to 15. the indication that the exclusive clauses referred to in article 107 (3) (c) tfeu have been exceeded is of the utmost importance. the experience of these difficult years of crisis has led to a comprehensive and radical revision of the rules governing access to funds, which were drawn up in conditions very different from those of today, when the current economic scenario was beyond the scope of reasonable forecasts. the impact of aid on different business models and on economic systems in different regions will require a reassessment of the way in which it is granted and access to it. finally, i agree with the negative assessment that parliament cannot operate under codecision today: given the political centrality of cohesion financial instruments in times of reduced credit to enterprises, it is essential that any initiative be backed by full democratic legitimacy, as a result of the orderly composition of divergent interests. to exclude parliament from this responsibility exposes the commission to political censure and risks fuelling anti-european demagogy based on the stereotype of technocracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on state aid in the belief that the matter should be approached carefully, simplifying procedures to ensure an effective contribution to local development policies. the procedures for the notification and approval of support measures must be set up in such a way that public investment can play a real role in driving the economy forward, especially in a period of economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing.
in writing. - i supported, by my vote in favour, this important own-initiative report which expresses assessments and proposals on regional policy in the context of wider state aid schemes. i share the need for better coordination between cohesion policy and state aid policy, which, although they have different premises, have common objectives, such as aid to the less developed regions, promotion of their development, support for areas where there is a lower standard of living or where unemployment is high. while cohesion policy is subject to the ordinary codecision procedure, the parliament has only an advisory role in the process of modernising state aid. this creates a major democratic deficit which should be overcome. the new rules which are to be drawn up must strike the right balance between the objective of improving the competitiveness of enterprises in order to strengthen the internal market and support for enterprises which have already been too much tried by the severe economic crisis. failure to provide any special safety net support to regions not covered by the regional aid maps exposes them to serious risks and, above all, makes it difficult to achieve the eu 2020 targets. i believe that this last point deserves the utmost attention from all the institutions.
in writing. - the report we have adopted is central to the future of europe. we cannot afford a two- or three-speed union, and this applies not only to more or less developed countries but also to the most backward regions of countries considered to be advanced: i am thinking, for example, of france, germany, spain and italy. for this reason too, the decision to leave it to the national and local levels, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to decide which farms may or may not participate in aid is to be welcomed. i stress this point because there is a strong movement today to challenge the project of european integration, based primarily on the fact that very often the national communities - rightly or wrongly - feel deprived of decision-making power. we shall not be able to revive the european spirit as long as parliament is the cinderella of our union. we are talking about the only institutional body - i want to remind you - voted directly by the peoples of europe. the emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises is welcome, as is the move towards simplifying state aid so that it can be more accessible.
in writing. − in the context of the revision of state aid legislation, an important chapter is that devoted to so-called regional aid, i.e. aid covering a restricted area compared to the entire national territory. however, it is precisely this dimension that is closest to the citizens and local authorities, and thus manages to get the best of the situation: i believe that the whole architecture and approach of europe should be reviewed on a regional or macro-regional basis, because the present states are too large and heterogeneous to deal adequately with many situations. i would like to stress a key point in this report, namely that the granting of state aid should be determined not only by the size of the firm or the sector in which it operates, but also by the estimate of the number of jobs that could be created and maintained by the granting of the incentives, the quality and sustainability of the jobs and projects concerned and the long-term effects on the development of the region, including social aspects. the full impact of a company on the territory in which it operates is too often not considered, which is why i very much appreciated the attention in the text to the risks of industrial relocation.
in writing. − the cohesion policy legislative package and the commission communication on the modernisation of state aid have the advantage of creating situations which limit the need for states and regions to respond to the crisis with public instruments and initiatives that can ensure growth. the draft guidelines published by the commission introduce new subjects, almost all of them restrictive and reductive. the court's judgment in leipzig/halle makes an important point which must be taken into account, but beyond the cohesion policy aspects there is the problem of development and the need to create jobs. on the one hand, the crisis and on the other, the austerity policies have caused a very serious recession from a social point of view, with an unbearable increase in unemployment and a loss of competitiveness in the productive world. the new state aid guidelines should therefore take this situation much more into account and should provide the flexibility to facilitate and promote growth and the need for new investment, especially when it is in infrastructure and job creation. without this focused concern, all the more complex and reductive aid rules are reduced to bureaucratic formulas without a social construct.
in writing. - the european parliament, by approving the text on regional policy in the context of wider state aid schemes, is coming to the rescue of small and medium-sized enterprises and local authorities in need as a result of the economic crisis. our vote is our voice to make the european commission understand how much our entrepreneurs need immediate financial instruments to cope with the crisis. state aid granted more broadly to local and regional authorities, although it falls within the competitive field of the commission's exclusive competence, is sometimes, but especially in the present situation, made indispensable by the existence of small economic operators.
in writing. - having regard to the three main objectives of the process, namely to ensure growth while strengthening the internal market, keeping it dynamic and competitive, to address state aid cases that distort the internal market and to streamline and speed up decisions on state aid procedures, and agreeing with the rapporteur, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - today we voted on an important report on regional state aid. state aid which, together with antitrust and merger control policies, constitute the three instruments of the european union's competition policy. what i want to stress, and what i find very clear in the report, is the need for competition policy to be defined with the interests of the citizens and the rights of european consumers as its main target. this means that it must facilitate the entry of new players into the market, encourage the emergence of new ideas and techniques, and strengthen the single market as a motor of economic growth. but it is also necessary to introduce a system of collective redress and alternative dispute resolution at community level. in conclusion, of course, i join the call for greater involvement of the european parliament, with its co-legislative powers, and of the interested parties and civil society in the definition of competition policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the annual report on competition policy. the very balanced text emphasises the decisive role of competition in the development of a market for citizens and businesses. the report strongly stresses the duty of banks to improve access to credit for households and businesses and calls on the commission to strengthen controls on credit rating agencies by defining new rules to ensure that cases of conflict of interest in competition matters are resolved.
in writing. - lessons must be drawn from the events of recent years, both to avoid ideological rigidity on the competition principle and to prevent the spread of exceptions and cases of protectionism. the rapporteur was right to point out that if the financial industry has been supported in the face of the risks of systemic collapse, it is time for the sector to fulfil its strategic vocation, which is to support real economies. in times of crisis, the incomplete state of the single market and the low level of competition in many countries and sectors are a major factor in the slowdown of economies, an incentive to market distortions and ultimately a threat to household living standards, resulting in price volatility, unjustified increases in private charges (from insurance to transport to communications), erosion of savings and crises of private savings. it can therefore be said that increased competition would also help to ease the social pressure on governments, which, with very limited margins, are faced with the need to revitalise the productive base and domestic consumption, without being able to use the instruments of quantitative easing. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the report voted today makes it clear that the road to the completion of the internal market is still a long one. i voted in favour of the report because i believe it identifies the areas where action to promote greater competition is needed. i hope that the commission will continue along the path laid down by the two single market acts promoted by commissioner barnier.
in writing. − competition policy is and must remain a fundamental pillar and an ever clear objective on the horizon of strengthening european integration. we cannot ignore the fact that in times of crisis, in the face of the difficulties which have arisen, there is a risk of succumbing to the temptation to put this important policy on the back burner. it is therefore necessary to reaffirm its valuable added value also in order to help overcome the economic stalemate in which we find ourselves. it is undeniable that competition policy is a valuable ally in economic reconstruction: antitrust, state aid and merger control all have a direct impact on the drivers of productivity and competitiveness. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report from parliament which makes interesting suggestions for continuing action in this area and strengthening the culture of competition at european and world level.
in writing. − this is an assessment of competition policy in various sectors of the european economy. banks that have received state aid should focus on the healthier economic activities, ensuring access to credit for both households and smes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of a public authority. the proposal also aims to preserve public finances while safeguarding the rights of european citizens. competition must be ensured in the food, energy, media, tourism, payments and transport sectors. the report as a whole seems to me to deserve a vote in favour.
in writing. - i thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for the work it has done on the report presented today. competition is one of the cornerstones on which the european union is built. it is sufficient to recall that in 1957 the treaties of rome devoted the whole of title vi to this subject. it is not easy to talk about competition in the current historical period of economic and financial difficulties. the economic crisis always carries the risk of a loss of confidence in market mechanisms and, therefore, of protectionist tendencies. in this context, competition policy can and must become a key instrument in responding to market fragmentation, as it has always done in the past, by helping member states to achieve maximum efficiency in the allocation of resources and, therefore, public intervention. an efficient market is one that fosters innovation and the emergence of new economic actors, implementing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and maximising the benefits for all european citizens. in this context, an increasingly close dialogue between the commission and the european parliament, which must be more closely involved in the formulation of competition policy, is essential.
in writing. - today, in the plenary session in strasbourg, we welcomed the report by mr sánchez presedo on the annual report on european union competition policy. the european social market economy would be unthinkable without healthy competition, so proper pricing and efficient allocation and use of resources are essential. we are also convinced that competition itself can bring about adequate social progress. we are fully aware that we are in the fifth year of the financial, economic and social crisis, but we believe that competition policy should not be put aside, but should be used as a tool to respond to the crisis itself, to maintain fair conditions and an open and dynamic market. we encourage free markets because we believe they are necessary to achieve the europe 2020 goals for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. but in the light of the facts, we are convinced that greater legitimacy and greater effectiveness are needed to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. it is therefore necessary to encourage the involvement of stakeholders and civil society in order to strengthen the culture of competition at european and global level, ensuring that the commission has adequate resources to achieve a good result.
in writing. - considering that competition has proved to be a necessary tool in responding to the crisis and agreeing with the rapporteur on the importance of competition in difficult times, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on strengthening democracy within emu because i share the conviction that any future reform in this area must include greater involvement of citizens in the decision-making process. i appreciate the strong call for the european commission to come forward with legislative proposals to ensure that economic and monetary union is built on the solid foundations of the community method, which has unfortunately not yet happened, or at least not to the appropriate extent. only in this way will emu be perceived, also by the citizens, as a solid process of integration and coordination of governance, and not as an imposition.
in writing. - considering that the position that a strengthened emu should not divide the eu but rather lead to deeper integration, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - it is undeniable that in many european countries youth unemployment is a real emergency. almost one in four young people in the old continent is unemployed, with borderline situations such as greece or spain, where well over half of the people in this age group are unemployed. the solution is not simple, because the crisis has affected all levels and without distinction, and young people of this generation have been particularly exposed to events. the resolution we have adopted today seems to me to be full of good ideas, but it is completely devoid of substance and does not clearly indicate a possible way out of this emergency. there are already some instruments, such as the european social fund, which could help in some way, but unfortunately they are being used in a distorted, sometimes fraudulent way and for purposes and objectives quite different from those for which they were designed. the whole system of education, training and vocational training, which in some countries, such as italy, is unfortunately inadequate to the needs of the present situation, would probably also have to be revised.
in writing. the resolution for the european council of 27 and 28 june, which has just been voted, follows the debate in the chamber with the main bodies of the union. the european parliament called on the heads of state or government to reach a common agreement to revive growth. growth and more growth is the watchword, growth revived as quickly as possible with measures to stimulate the labour market, creating jobs and consumer confidence immediately to reinvigorate the markets. no one thinks it will be easy, but if the common objective is a united and united europe, there will certainly be agreement.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the fight against youth unemployment is a serious problem and that it is essential to guarantee fundamental social rights, and agreeing with the rapporteur, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the objective of this regulation is to define the principles, conditions and limits of the right of access to european parliament, council and commission documents, i voted in favour of the proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in turkey, the environmental protest has been joined by political protests against the erdogan government, which is gradually becoming less secular and more fundamentalist, as its recent decisions show. violent repression is not only morally reprehensible, it is also in breach of the european charter of fundamental rights, which is an important pillar of the lisbon treaty and guides our foreign and security policy (cfsp). any negotiations with turkey must take this into account. it must also be said that the experience of the arab spring has shown that the ferments of freedom and democracy carried forward by the young people in the squares have never been rewarded and the regimes born of those revolutions prove to be more anti-democratic and fundamentalist than those that were overthrown. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are not forced to accept the new regime. i believe that turkey is a key partner for the west and that destabilising turkey in a highly unstable area could lead to a serious threat to security in the middle east.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned about the escalation of violent repression against tens of thousands of citizens who, by defending gezi park, are expressing their desire to live in a participatory and therefore secular democracy, on the path indicated by president atatürk. we are concerned about the many firings of journalists and columnists who believe in freedom of the press and the imprisonment of many of them, as well as the violence, which the police used against protesters and passers-by on the government's orders and there are rumors that some police officers committed suicide or resigned from their posts after these violence. we are concerned that the government is refusing to acknowledge the aspirations of so many of the turkish people who defend gezi park, not only as one of the few green parks in a crowded city, but as a place that has become a symbol of the turkish people's will to live in peace, democracy and freedom.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the report which parliament is about to vote on is intended to make a constructive contribution to the revision of the eeas. it does so on the basis of an assessment of these first years of activity which identifies limitations and problems, but which at the same time recognises the considerable progress achieved in a few years. when we helped launch the service in 2010, we knew that the goal of integrating structures from the commission and the council, union and member state officials was a difficult and ambitious challenge. the parliament then abandoned its request to place the service within the commission in order to pursue the objective of a broad service, capable of going from the common security and defence policy to development policy and at the same time close to the commission and subject to adequate control by parliament. this objective was then achieved and we have created a service - i think i can say this - with more powers than the commission would have wanted, but closer to the commission than the council would have wanted and subject to more scrutiny by parliament than either would have wanted. this gives the union an extraordinary tool for achieving a truly comprehensive approach to foreign policy, that is to say, for promoting synergy between the different instruments at europe's disposal in its external action, which are consistent with a foreign policy philosophy that gives a predominant role to so-called 'soft power', that is to say, to consensus, democracy, human rights, the development of peoples, without at the same time giving up the military instruments of crisis management and the objective of building a common defence. the proposals we are presenting today are not intended to overturn the basic framework defined in 2010 but rather to confirm implicitly its correctness. our report seeks to identify the problems that prevent the eeas from fully expressing its potential and identifies some possible solutions that seem to us to be consistent with the fundamental approach chosen in 2010 and pursued in recent years. i do not repeat the proposals already made by mr brok, the member or members for whom i want to reassure you that no one is thinking of european parliamentarians, the rationalization of the structure, the strengthening of the role of vice-president of the commission by the high representative, the integration of crisis management structures, the strengthening of the role of heads of delegation, full political control by parliament, the autonomy of recruitment procedures vis-à-vis the member states. we think these are reasonable proposals, some of which can be implemented on the basis of the existing decision, while others will require its revision, for which we ask that parliament be fully involved in the same way as in 2010. i am confident that a fruitful dialogue with you, the high representative, will develop around these proposals and that the review of the external action service will provide the european union with a better instrument for conducting a foreign policy commensurate with its responsibilities and ambitions.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this debate has shown that there is a broad consensus in parliament on the lines of our report. i was also pleased to hear, for example, from mr tannock the recognition of the importance and usefulness of the european external action service. the debate also showed a significant convergence between parliament and you, high representative. i must say, mrs ashton, that you made an excellent speech and that is a real source of satisfaction not only for the recognition you have given to parliament but above all because you have shown a vision of the nature, the tasks, the potentialities of the european external action service which we fully share. in particular, the challenge of the comprehensive approach, i.e. the ability to coordinate in a synergistic way the various instruments at europe's disposal to make its external action effective. that is why, although the cases of good cooperation with the commission which you have mentioned are undoubtedly real, we stress that much still needs to be done and can be done in this respect. i am confident that the review on this basis will be fruitful and i therefore thank you and all the staff of the european external action service, starting of course with pierre vimont, for their commitment, for the results and for their willingness to deal with this parliament.
madam president, i must say to baroness ashton, as a physician and a human being, that i have a specific concern, namely about so-called ‘cuban health diplomacy’. cuba is sending out doctors under government-to-government cooperation agreements. this practice has now become cuba’s biggest industry, bringing in usd 6 billion. in venezuela alone, there are more than 30 000 cuban doctors, traded for oil; in brazil there are 6 000 of them. the host countries pay for each doctor about usd 5 000 per month, while the doctors themselves receive only usd 25. these bilateral agreements clearly violate a number of international labour organisation conventions. one of the escaped cuban doctors recently stated, ‘we are the highest qualified slave labour force in the world.’ are we sure that we should continue to finance cuba, with eur 30 million each year?
mr president, i believe that any discussion at eu level on the freedom of the press and media in the world can only be credible if media freedom is safeguarded and respected within the union itself. we must remind ourselves that, in recent years, some european media have come under scrutiny for unethical and illegal behaviour. for this reason, the commission should closely monitor the independence of the press within the member states, while applying a global strategy of transparency and accountability. freedom of expression is the cornerstone of democracy. for this reason, the press must operate independently and free of political and financial pressure. too often in europe we see media empires, controlled or owned by politicians or industrial groups, carrying out misinformation campaigns, with disastrous results for democracy and freedom. at international level, i agree on the need to adopt a press and media strategy within eu foreign policy, involving in this effort multilateral bodies such as the council of europe, the oecd and the united nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the ad hoc delegation of this parliament to observe the trials of journalists in turkey, i express my deep concern at the events of these days and the restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly in istanbul and other turkish cities. the eu cannot remain passive in the face of repeated violations of fundamental rights in an accession country such as turkey: there have been dozens of arrests of journalists accused of spreading false information about the anti-government street protests; hundreds of journalists are in prison in turkey for journalistic activities and are being charged instead of other punishments; there are hundreds of journalists in prison for reporting on the lack of freedom of the turkish kurdish minority in turkey. the union must play a more effective and decisive role in promoting freedom of expression, but without mrs ashton - let me say this - it will be impossible, because the representative who will be answering us shortly is certainly not in her head, she does not know what she is thinking. so i'm sorry to talk and not have the ashton here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about freedom of the press and the media in the world, with particular reference to countries where there is no democracy or conflict zones. being a journalist also means being at the forefront of the struggle for human rights, which is why i join the call launched by the international federation for the freedom of all journalists, who are prevented or held hostage in the areas of the syrian conflict. i am also thinking of the italian journalist, domenico quirico, who gave his report last thursday after two months, but we hope above all that he will soon be free from his family and able to carry out his work; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the media are not subject to unfair competition. i wonder whether the workers' rights have been respected and whether this decision, in terms of timing and method, does not constitute a breach of freedom of information.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that freedom of the press, freedom of the media, freedom of expression are absolute values of our civilization. it is true that the activities carried out on the subject make it clear that in many areas, sometimes not far from the territories of the member states, in the member states themselves, the development of democratic life is not always supported by adequate and complete information, but the protection of the rights that are not available to life, self-determination, choice and religion requires information pluralism. that is why there is also an absolute need for investigative journalism, for journalists who are not afraid to say what they think, with respect for the truth and the moral integrity of these journalists, which must be protected, and for dialogue and cooperation to be strengthened with those parts of the world, some of which have already been identified and are still far from meeting acceptable minimum standards of information. information is a sacred right which serves to improve the civil environment in which we carry out our activities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the provision of imprisonment for the crime of defamation prevents the full realisation of the principle of freedom of expression, with serious repercussions on the effectiveness and completeness of communications throughout europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in italy, for example, in recent months two newspaper editors, alessandro sallusti and giorgio mulé, have been sentenced to prison terms for the crime of defamation or failure to control. the commission and the council must take strong decisions to raise awareness among the member states and to decriminalise defamation immediately, guaranteeing full freedom of expression, the right of citizens to be adequately informed and the protection of the honour of those involved. so yes to harsh sanctions, including radiation when the defamation is certain and proven, no to prison sentences, punitive and not re-educational. i am therefore announcing that, having already collected more than 40 of the required signatures, i will be submitting a question to the european commission, requesting a debate in the house for the july plenary session.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by thanking the honourable members for their wide-ranging and very powerful interventions. i am grateful for the honourable members’ recognition of the initial steps that the eu has already taken to implement the eu’s strategic framework and action plan on human rights. however, i recognise that much still needs to be done. i believe there are three themes that will need to be addressed stemming from today’s debate. firstly, it is necessary to address human rights consistently in all eu policies. human rights and governance are also a core focus of eu development cooperation, and the european external action service and devco are working together to step up a rights-based approach to development assistance. at the same time, we also know that poverty alleviation is one of the issues that allow us to address human rights more sustainably. it is also clear that other areas – trade has been mentioned, as has migration policy – should step up a gear in order to respond to the human rights approach. but rest assured that my colleagues are really doing everything they can in their areas to support a human-rights-based approach, and we are very unselfish in our approaches. we make a case if it needs to be made, and our policy is definitely an example to the world. i would like to mention just one example: this house has adopted the commission’s proposal for transparency in the extractive industries. it is a world-leading proposal that provides for the necessary elements in the fight against corruption. the second issue is – as several members have pointed out – that it is essential that you raise human rights violations robustly with third countries. each case must be judged on its own merits. we are sometimes faced with a challenge, and we need to react more robustly and swiftly. honourable members can rest assured that the eu raises human rights consistently with all of our partner countries and at the highest political level, including with ethiopia. we have an even broader approach that is not just about responding to concrete cases. there is a political dialogue with asian countries and with acp countries, where it comes under article 8 of the cotonou agreement, where we address not only particular cases, but also systemic issues like media freedom, democracy, human rights and civil society. it is also clear that there are new challenges coming, and there are some trends that need to be addressed. one that was very worrying was media freedom. it is true that it is more concentrated. it is true that in many countries, governments believe that the media do not help in their reform policies. it is very clear that we need to be more strategic in this approach. in this respect, we are already working towards making our support for freedom of expression much stronger in our delegation guidelines. michael cashman mentioned issues with lgbti rights. this is really worrying. it is true that laws exist in many countries which stem from colonialist times, but it is definitely not in accordance with the spirit of the time. the fight for lbgti community rights is one of the focuses of today’s policy, and we are also preparing guidelines for our delegations on how to address this issue and how to make this case very strong and powerful. last but not least, i would like to welcome the european parliament’s contribution to human rights, democracy and freedom of press and media – the sakharov prize, ‘urgency debates’ and the work of the human rights subcommittee. all of these are invaluable in drawing attention to the violation of human rights and giving us additional arguments when working with our partner countries for human rights, democracy and media freedom. we look forward to carrying forward our work with parliament this year and in the years ahead. it is also great that you have allowed the special representative for human rights to be here to participate in the debate. seeing his interactions this year, i can assure you that he is available for all individual questions that you may have, and for other external activities that we carry out under his leadership. as regards human rights, democracy and media freedom, there are good days, and there are upsetting days. however, this does not sway our will to put these questions at the forefront of our policies. thank you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 13 june, at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the report by francisco josé millán mon, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the role of the eu in promoting a wider transatlantic partnership (2012/2287(ini)) (a7-0173/2013).
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the trade agreement with the united states can bring europe 273 billion euros a year, or 400 000 new jobs, and increase exports by 28%. some european countries are putting absurd obstacles in the way of such an agreement by claiming that it helps the culture of individual countries. it is really a question of wanting to continue to finance niche products which do not benefit anyone. my country, italy, lost a million jobs in 2012 alone, and i find it ridiculous that the state finances films by a few directors that nobody goes to see. this very policy of defending petty national interests is clearly visible in this place: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that this parliament can remedy what is against the economic interests of the people who elected it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 13 june, at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on: - the question with request for an oral reply to the council on the reconstruction and democratisation of mali, by eva joly, on behalf of the committee on development and by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o-000040/2013 - (b7-0205/2013), and- the question with request for an oral reply to the committee on reconstruction and democratisation of mali, by eva joly, on behalf of the committee on development and by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o-000041/2013 - (b7-0206/2013).
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we now have three points of reference for mali: the un mission, the donor board, which all together relatively quickly allocated significant funds, and an election calendar. we are particularly attentive to the presidential elections, and we shall see whether we can also win the legislative elections. and then, as a fourth element, for once the european union has a united position, which is not a small thing in view of what has happened in libya, iraq and now syria. mali deserves all this, it is the victim of a war it did not cause, and of a barbarism that cut off hands, beat women and destroyed monuments. but we have to learn from what happened in afghanistan, which is, first of all: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. secondly, that the funds actually arrive, not only are they allocated, but that they can actually be used, and thirdly, that the political class in mali also takes its responsibilities. mali is also a victim of its own contradictions, which come from afar and which this crisis may try to dissolve. this means fighting corruption, parties with a genuine national vocation and serving citizens throughout the territory, so that the pacification of the north and a new democratic course really make sense. now mali, it is said, a country, which i think i know quite well, that no disease is natural, is always attributable to someone or something and all in all there are also names and surnames of those that have been weaknesses in the rule of law, a weakness in the state of mali that has not withstood the military conflict that has been invested with it. these dark thoughts, as ampateba called them, must now be eradicated and the ruling class in mali must also take responsibility for them.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, this has been a substantial debate and i will just repeat a couple of points that i believe to be crucial. first of all, all the support to mali is under the leadership of malians: so we are supporting the roadmap drawn up by the malian transitional authorities and the recovery plan for mali for 2013-2014, prepared by the malian authorities. elections are part of the mali roadmap, and this is another area in which we are providing financial support through the un development programme. we hope that these elections will be credible and democratic and will afford each and every citizen of mali the opportunity to express an opinion. secondly, we barely mentioned the fact that this is a un-led process – there are security council resolutions, a un force will be deployed and there is a strong un mission, the leader of which has already been appointed. he is bert koenders, previously development minister in the netherlands. so i believe that cooperation with the un will be very strong. thirdly, we should look at what the malian people have already received from the eu member states in terms of solidarity, because the pledge to support mali comes not only from the commission and from france and the closest eu neighbourhood states; there is also a training mission supported and led by latvians, and i am very proud that my country has sent people on a training mission to mali. fourthly, we did not only pledge money, we also signed a financial agreement for delivering social services, for supporting human rights and for providing support, via both the state and civil society, for meeting basic needs, as well as increased support for humanitarian aid. lastly, we are definitely learning to work better in the sahel. it is a challenging place in which to work, but the eu strategy for security and development in the sahel, which was drawn up and adopted in 2011, has provided a good basis. now the second implementation report will propose a couple of additional elements, but we already have a sound basis that reflects eu capacity. at the end of the day, we have a limited financial envelope and we should use the money wisely to support activities which definitely make the sahel safer, more stable and more prosperous. the fight against poverty in the sahel will be a long-term fight. finally and perhaps personally, i want to reflect on whether or not we failed in terms of development cooperation in mali. i still remember a former president speaking here in this house. we all knew that it was a fragile country, and we did our best to offer support to the country through food security and development programmes, but should we have anticipated the army problems? even if we had anticipated them, what would we have done? a training mission is now working at the request of the malian authorities, but at that stage the president never asked us to provide support to the army. so there will always be some limits to what we can do. we can discuss the issues in relation to security but we cannot impose upon a country which has a legitimate government in place. discussing the issues and asking the government to follow up on neglected issues in certain areas will always be a very delicate task. i believe that what we did in mali was relevant. it was not sufficient, not because we did not want to support them but because there were limits on what the previous authorities wanted us to support. if they had been more courageous, i think we could have avoided the crisis in mali, and we would be in a better situation today. however, it is always easier to be wise after the event, and we should be proud of what we have done in mali and of what we are still doing there. we will definitely improve our support as time goes on.
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 115 (5) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 13 june, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the partnership and cooperation agreement with afghanistan.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i am the rapporteur for the eu-afghanistan cooperation agreement. we asked for its addition at this point on the agenda because, despite the obligation to inform parliament at all stages of the negotiation, we have not been properly informed. on several occasions, together with the shadow rapporteurs, we indicated the priorities we would like to see included in the agreement but unfortunately we have not received any significant feedback. our requests are well-known. they are supported by the majority of this parliament and are included in reports and resolutions approved by this house since 2010. the first concern we raised about the negotiations for the agreement was about the quality of international aid and the efficiency of its delivery chain. between 2002 and the end of 2011, the eu alone committed a total of eur 2.5 billion in civilian assistance to afghanistan, but the impact of this has been extremely limited. we pointed out that 70-80 % of the aid channelled through international organisations and ngos never reached the afghan population. our second point of concern, which we reiterated, was our wish to see the creation of a five-year opium elimination plan through alternative development, a plan to be implemented through a dedicated office with its own budget and staff and on the basis of close cooperation between the eu and the russian federation, whose population has become a major victim of afghan heroin. such a plan is very urgent, because the huge amount of international money used for counter-narcotics measures in afghanistan has had no significant impact on production and trafficking. to conclude, i hope that the eas will now finally include our concerns in the agreement under negotiation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am wearing this crimson tie today in honour and memory of captain giuseppe la rosa of the italian army's third rifle regiment, the last italian soldier to fall in afghanistan, in the province of farah. the arrival of the summer season and the approach of the final withdrawal of the international military coalition at the end of 2014 has led to an intensification of insurgent and taliban attacks in recent weeks, in kabul as well as in the provinces. they want to show that there is no alternative to instability today and the return of the regime tomorrow. the efforts made in training the army and police forces, thanks to the eupol mission, the commitment to the creation of an independent local judiciary, the considerable european resources allocated to cooperation programmes - all this must be put to practical use. supporting the democratic process, consolidating a strong state structure, creating the conditions for economic development, eradicating corruption and crime, eradicating the scourge of opium cultivation, are the keys to winning the afghan challenge. for all these reasons we must move forward, and i therefore hope that the negotiations on the cooperation agreement will be concluded quickly. we owe it to captain la rosa and all our fallen, to the soldiers deployed in the isaf mission, to the civilian and medical workers on the ground, to all the europeans who believe in the final transition to a stable and peaceful afghanistan.
member of the commission. − madam president, i will be brief, because it is rather late. first, i believe everybody agrees that it is important to conclude this framework agreement as swiftly as possible. the high representative assures you that you will receive regular updates on the state of play of the negotiations as soon as there are any developments to report. as i said, at this stage we are waiting for some response from our afghan partners. i also very much support the opinion you have expressed that we should not lose the focus on state-building and long-term development in afghanistan, and neither the member states nor devco intend to do so: quite the opposite. we would like – if we have the budgetary authority’s support – to increase support to the afghan people. it is also wrong to perceive that we have lost money. we have evaluation reports, we have fiduciary controls from the court of auditors, and i can assure you that we have not lost money to corruption. we have also achieved some decent results. for example, there has been substantial progress towards achieving millennium development goals (mdgs). however, the starting point was very low. it is now also crucial that the mutual accountability framework which was accepted by the government of afghanistan must be implemented. i believe that, in new situations, far stronger donor coordination is needed; all our principal eu investors in development countries, like the uk and germany, will definitely rethink their approach, because the current approach is very much related to the provinces where the troops are placed. as we would like to support a viable afghan state, we will need a rather different level of engagement and we should adopt a very coordinated approach from day one. afghanistan is a very proud country; i believe that, even given its current difficulties, we should be able to see light at the end of the tunnel. many people’s livelihoods have been changed. i recently chaired a panel in afghanistan. what is happening in afghanistan is controversial but there are definitely positive grounds for hoping that things will improve. there will be difficult periods ahead of us, but we should not lose the courage to support the afghan people.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 115 (5) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 13 june, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr martin, for his constructive work in bringing to the vote the interim economic partnership agreement with cameroon. the interim epa signed by the european union and cameroon is the first step in the establishment of a regional partnership for trade and development between the eu and central africa. thanks to this interim epa, cameroon has continued to enjoy full and free access to the european market for all its products without interruption since 2008. the conclusion of the interim epa in 2007 was key for cameroon as the eu is its largest trading partner. cameroon’s exports to the eu include products that are either not covered by the union’s generalised scheme of preferences, such as bananas and aluminium for instance, or which benefit from limited margins of preference. under the current commission mandate, there has been renewed activity in the context of negotiations with central african partners for a more comprehensive regional epa. we aim for significant progress in the coming months. upon its conclusion and ratification, the regional agreement will replace the interim agreement, which, as suggested in the title of this debate, will function as a stepping stone. the commission will keep the european parliament fully informed about the ongoing regional negotiations. the rapporteur mentions that there has not been sufficient encouragement to move forward. actually we have, under the 10th european development fund, doubled the support for regional integration, and in the context of the 11th edf we have had very constructive talks on how to strengthen regional integration. the main challenge, in my opinion, is that countries in this region see less need at this stage to forge trade between one another: they tend to look to their outward markets rather than the african market. this is a missed opportunity, but as the time goes on there is a chance, as commissioner de gucht has said, that we may conclude an agreement and thereby increase development support in order to implement mechanisms to support regional trade. it is the current pattern of trade that somehow prevents the regional countries from being more ambitious as to a regional epa. the issue of human rights and democratisation in cameroon, which was rightly raised, is a focus of special attention from the eu in terms not only of policy dialogue and advocacy but also of our targeted financial support for civil society organisations. areas of eu concern include justice, press freedom, democracy, the fight against corruption, and the promotion of human rights, particularly women’s rights and the rights of the lgbt community. there are also two other problematic issues: trafficking in human beings and the rights of minorities. these are matters to which we are paying very careful attention. we are also aware that we need to base our relationship with cameroon on a long-term vision, with the partnership continuing to develop and grow, offering a sustainable path to development based on full implementation of human rights needs. it is a process. we are well aware that we need to step up a gear in the negotiations about the human rights situation in cameroon but i would argue that this should not prevent us from supporting the interim epa with cameroon because i believe that it too strengthens our approach towards improving the human rights situation in the country.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is an agreement, a small step, but an important one in redefining trade policy with the acp countries. let us briefly recap what we have been trying to achieve in these months. we have reformed the gsp to focus on the poorest countries. the market access regulation, which we have amended as parliament to give a little more time to the beneficiary countries, the monitoring of the epa, fully with cariforum and some interim epas, now also this agreement with cameroon. it is a slow process, considering that the negotiations began in 2002 and that we are still in an interim epa regime, and i would also like to ask the commissioner if he can give us any information on the timing of ratification by cameroon. however, things are moving, but in the meantime i think it is better to invest in what should be a genuine conviction, an inner conviction on both sides, europe and the acp countries, that this path that has been started, is not that it is started and that it is going on with its delayed timetable because we have now decided that this is the way to go, but because this is the right thing to do in the 21st century to redefine our relations. i mean the local press, business in cameroon for example, is skeptical, the ngos are hostile, the local business community is either positive or negative depending on who you talk to, national parliamentarians are often cut out of the decision-making process; i think that all this is not helping us and we need, therefore, i think, an initiative in terms of public relations, press seminars, seminars with ngos, seminars and meetings with the categories of beneficiaries, those who could be the biggest beneficiaries. i must say that as a member of the committee on international trade, i asked my committee to organise a meeting with the press dealing with africa in brussels, precisely to discuss what we think are the opportunities for the apes. i think it is also important to insist with the beneficiary countries on what the measures of internal application must be - which therefore go beyond what is established in the epas - in terms of trying to ensure that everyone can benefit from these agreements, so measures against corruption and above all the creation of a tax system that ensures that the proceeds and benefits of this agreement can be distributed on the territory.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that the european union is the major contributor to development policies and that it must be more of a protagonist with a single voice. that is why we must have a strong coordination of national policies, because today the states are increasing their budgets, but they want to maintain their autonomous areas of influence, including trade, and that is not the way to go. a few important points i want to make: the first, commissioner, is that europe must create international legal frameworks to guarantee certain fundamental transactions. we fight for food, water, energy, but if we do not make a transparent, clear and fair framework of rules against land grabbing, we will fight in vain. we need to involve civil society, it was said, the local non-state, and we decide with them what to do and not locked in our rooms for long-term projects. women's rights are important and i hope that among these rights we will include the right to safe, assisted and serene motherhood in our documents, and i think that women should also be the protagonists of the projects. we invest in women, in projects run by women's cooperatives, because with women, we can make a difference.
madam president, if we look back over the 13 years of the millennium development goals the picture is really encouraging. in fact, the most important target, halving the world’s absolute poverty, was achieved in 2008. we are now two years from 2015, and other important targets such as universal primary education are very close to being met. the next ambitious target, for the coming 15 years, is the total eradication of absolute poverty. this target is shared by big multilateral bodies like the united nations and even the international monetary fund. poverty eradication is the fulfilment of one of the oldest dreams of humankind, and it will be very important that the eu has decided to put all its weight, as the major provider of international aid, behind the effort to achieve this new goal.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing is an important turning point on the road to development. but for the future, for the acts of increase of the text that will be voted on today, i think we must avoid falling into some ideological coercion. it is not enough to create wealth to fight poverty, poverty is fought if there is wealth, but only if there are fair redistributive mechanisms, otherwise and paradoxically you can even increase the differences. secondly, wealth must be created with respect for the environment and for the universal rights of people, not at any cost and regardless of the conditions of those who have an active role in doing this. for this reason, i think we should work together to identify a system of rewards and penalties: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that it is very difficult, but this is a field on which parliament and the commission will have to measure themselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we adopted a document of principle of great importance for the union's island territories. the inclusion of these islands among the beneficiaries of regional aid as compensation for their insularity, by removing them from the discretion of the respective member states, is a step which brings the islands closer to europe and i am particularly pleased, since in the committee on regional development this result is also the result of my own amendment which was approved by the whole committee; i thank the committee, but i thank parliament in particular for yesterday's vote. this new attitude towards islands must also be reflected in the raising of the ceilings for de minimis aid for agricultural sectors in these regions; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of the community's fishing and transport sectors, which are fundamental sectors of their economy and therefore indispensable for restoring their competitiveness vis-à-vis continental regions. i hope very much that the commission will fully implement these guidelines which we emphasized in yesterday's resolution in favour of island regions as islands.
in writing. − the report concerns the eu-central africa partnership agreements, which were initiated in 2002. in 2007, there was talk of 'interim agreements', 'provisional' and 'framework' agreements. the 2007 eu-cameroon agreement, due to lengthy procedures, is now only voted on this year. key points of the agreement concern the fact that cameroon has access to the eu market without tariffs or quotas. the problem is that the text has not yet been ratified. attention is also paid to the tariff exemption for certain products, with certain food safeguards, and the non-enforcement clause in the event of non-compliance with human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i vote in favour.
in writing. − the agreement reached brings europe and this part of africa closer together. this form of partnership, although temporary, provides a number of mutual opportunities and lays the foundations for a fruitful dialogue. this type of agreement must also be an opportunity for greater democracy in those countries which do not politically meet european standards. a first important result has been achieved and that is why europe must continue along this path.
in writing. − the interim agreements between the central african countries and the eu countries are aimed at promoting the early application of preferential access to the european market by african countries, and in the meantime the strategies for concluding comprehensive economic partnership agreements will also have to continue. the example of the negotiation of an epa (interim economic partnership agreement) between the eu and cameroon, the only country prepared to conclude the agreement, has brought benefits to the african country on the application of a trade regime. the eu is cameroon's main trading partner and its economy is making good progress, but improvements in infrastructure and transport would be desirable to enable it to develop its market as well as to join emerging economies in the long term. the importance of these relations means that the cameroonian national assembly should take a decision on the ratification of the agreements, which would be useful for cooperation between the economies of our countries and the economies of the countries of the central african region. the aim should also be to achieve a regional epa involving the other countries of central africa, so as to achieve mutually beneficial results. i therefore gave my favourable opinion.
in writing. − the text does not explain economic issues in depth, there is no mechanism to effectively monitor the application of the revised treaty and no substantive changes have been made to increase protection of human rights. however, the adoption of the report is necessary to ratify the further revision of the cotonou agreement, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − i believe that the review of the cotonou agreement reaffirms the long-term strategic importance that both parties attach to the partnership. i believe it is important that the new text introduces, as the main objectives of the partnership, the need to achieve the millennium development goals, to achieve aid effectiveness and to combat climate change and that it promotes common approaches to cooperation to address the main challenges for achieving the mdgs (such as food security) and their importance for sustainable development, growth and poverty reduction. i also believe that the new text better reflects the trend towards greater regionalisation and pan-african development and i believe that it strengthens the role of local authorities, non-state actors and national parliaments in the acp countries in making the cotonou processes more democratic. finally, i think it is significant that the new text gives greater visibility to the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, given their socioeconomic importance for both parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the second amendment to the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the eu because i believe that such an amendment can bring benefits for the economic and social development of the regions concerned. the cotonou agreement, signed in 2000, provides for the possibility of reassessment every five years in the light of developments in the political, economic and social environment. the review of the acp-eu partnership agreement provides for initiatives to strengthen mutual cooperation between acp countries in promoting sustainable development. i believe that the review should create conditions for the countries concerned to develop their markets by modernising their infrastructure and transport systems, and allowing them to integrate into the world economy. i also believe that the agreement is important for the preservation of peace and democracy and that trade development and the protection of sectors such as fisheries and aquaculture can help to reduce poverty and promote employment. however, in view of the next review in 2015, i believe it is essential to take a strong stand for the inclusion of binding clauses that mainly concern the protection of human and civil rights and women's rights.
in writing. − i support this report because it considers the right to freedom of expression as a universal human right, which lies at the basis of democracy. i believe that the eu should lead the way in ensuring that the media remain independent. for this reason i consider it of the utmost importance that media freedom is safeguarded and respected within the union itself. therefore the commission should closely monitor the independence of the press within the member states while applying a comprehensive strategy of transparency and accountability. in addition i consider of fundamental importance the recognition that media empires owned by politicians are often empowered to carry out misinformation campaigns. it is essential that the press and the media can operate independently and free of pressure by political and financial means.
in writing. the report recognises some key issues related to press freedom, explaining how the number of journalists being prosecuted and defamation cases are increasing, leaving them without adequate legal assistance. it condemns internet censorship and calls for a global media freedom strategy. i am voting in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. − the figures show a steady increase in the number of journalists killed worldwide. it says 101 journalists were killed in 2010, 102 in 2011 and 132 in 2012. the latest data as of june 2013 speak of 48 journalists killed, just for their profession. in the face of such numbers, the european union cannot remain silent. freedom of expression and information is one of the pillars on which the new europe has been built. it is a value which parliament strongly believes in. with the entry into force of the teu, legal recognition was given to the rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression and information, contained in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union of 7 december 2000. in this context, i believe that europe must play a more significant role in promoting these principles beyond its own borders. particular attention must be paid to the neighbouring countries in the middle east and the southern front, where there is a fierce struggle for the recognition of rights which we now take for granted. experience has shown, however, how essential cooperation with international bodies, such as the eeas and the council of europe, is, which can make a real commitment to promoting the rights and freedoms of expression and information in the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on freedom of the press and media in the world because it represents an absolute value of our civilization. the development of democratic life within the member states is not always supported by adequate and complete information. this is why investigative journalism is also absolutely necessary, in order to ensure respect for truth and moral integrity. the union plays a decisive role in promoting the right to freedom of expression and information in order to improve the civil environment and ensure social development.
in writing. - freedom of the press is one of the fundamental channels through which freedom of expression is guaranteed. the international covenant on civil and political rights and the european convention on human rights aim to defend the independence, freedom and pluralism of information. however, restrictions on freedom of expression often have serious consequences: journalists threatened, injured or imprisoned for defending fundamental rights or exposing abuses of power. governments must guarantee this right by avoiding "abusing" national security legislation to restrict freedom of information. in this context, the role of the european union is of the utmost importance in guaranteeing this right, as is the independence and heterogeneity of information and the safety of journalists. the role of the european commission in promoting an ad hoc approach to programming, both at national and regional level, is also becoming decisive. i therefore support the rapporteur's work in the interests of an increasingly articulated and shared approach between the member states, considering that the protection of freedom of the press, the media and the digital sector is playing an increasingly important role in the surveillance of democracy.
in writing. - freedom of the press and media is essential to be able to consider a country as democratic, otherwise we only have a regime that manipulates information according to its interests. this is the case for china, which is right at the very bottom of the 2013 world press freedom index, compiled by some independent organizations and attached to the report we voted on today. i wonder how the european union can accept this situation and why it is not intervening, perhaps also in the commercial field, to solve this problem, which is not only internal but has repercussions on the entire international system. perhaps even more serious is the case of turkey, where many journalists are in prison just for speaking out against the current government; i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. i do not think that the european union can even think about turkey's possible entry: i've been supporting this for years, maybe someone should realize that and do some kind of "mea culpa" as well.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on freedom of the press and media in the world. the right to freedom of expression is a universal human right on which democracy is founded and is essential for the exercise of other rights that the world's population seeks to achieve, such as the development, dignity and fulfilment of every human being. restrictions on freedom of expression have serious consequences for all civil society, which is why the international community must commit itself to ensuring the existence of an independent, free and pluralistic press and media, whose role is of the utmost importance in the context of democratic change in non-democratic regimes. the eu's commitment and programmes to promote and protect freedom of the press and media worldwide should be optimised; the eu can only be credible on the global stage if freedom of the press and media is protected and respected within the union itself. for this reason, the development of the media and the guarantee of freedom of expression must be an important part of the eu's national dialogue with each country.
in writing. − directive 2003/98/ec addressed the issue of re-use of public sector information so that it can be re-used throughout the european union. the directive would bring innovation and greater exchange of information. while there are still some uncertainties about the improvement of the legislative framework as a whole, it should also be stressed that this improvement is the task of europe 2020. that is why i am voting in favour of this.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because i believe that we must speed up the time to put some remedies to the disasters created by the financial sector, which may even last if we do not act quickly and decisively. the lack of control over the financial market has been one of the causes, if not the cause, of the current global economic crisis and immediate action is therefore necessary. in today's report, the liikanen report on the separation of commercial and non-commercial banking is cited as an example: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. unfortunately, there is a great deal of resistance to be overcome, especially on the part of certain member states which have a particularly developed (and uncontrolled) financial sector: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the turkish people's uprising began in defence of the trees in an istanbul park which were to be sacrificed to make way for a supermarket, but the protest has taken on a new connotation, a political one: it became a protest for freedom and democracy. erdogan is a leader of an islamic party, even if moderate, but there is no such thing as moderate islam; the arab spring taught us that these gentlemen start out moderate and end up wanting to conquer the world in the name of allah. the experience of what happened in north africa must serve as a lesson to europe not to repeat the same naiveté. europe will not want to allocate another 5 billion euros to turkish smes while our entrepreneurs and workers commit suicide because they have lost their jobs. erdogan wants to make women wear the veil, make them give birth to at least three children, 70 journalists are in prison in the face of freedom of the press. turkey has nothing to do with europe, it has a different culture, a different history, different roots, it does not respect human rights. turkey must not join europe, we must stop the negotiations immediately, otherwise it is good that a big protest is made in front of this parliament.
in writing. − with this resolution we strongly condemn the use of force by turkish police in their response to the peaceful and legitimate protests in istanbul’s gezi park. four people died, thousands are injured. this unacceptable action runs again the right to peacefully assemble and protest. also, the turkish constitution guarantees the right to demonstrate and freedom of expression. for this reason with this text we call on the turkish authorities to investigate the police violence and to bring those responsible to justice. i also believe that the opening of chapters 23 and 24 on fundamental rights and the judiciary in the process of the eu accession negotiations is a matter of urgency. on the one hand, it will show our serious commitment to turkey’s european perspective. on the other hand, they can be seen as tools to address turkey’s deficiencies in these areas.
in writing. − the crisis of the erdogan regime is not just the probable epilogue of one of the many satraps of the arab-muslim world: it is the end of a system, that of a party-state characterized by the totalitarian occupation of power, widespread corruption, the enslavement of the most important communication networks and the systematic violation of freedoms, starting with the freedom to demonstrate. not to mention the most characteristic and dangerous element of this regime, namely the use of islamic religious symbols for political purposes. and this turkey, which is today strongly contested by the young people who are fighting in gezi park, is exactly what the imbeciles who are in charge of the eu today wanted, irresponsibly, to bring into europe. to achieve, among other things, a good geopolitical result, to have us directly border syria, iran and iraq.
in writing. - the situation in turkey is very worrying: the recent events in the taksim square demonstrations have further highlighted the very serious problems of this nation. rights such as freedom of expression, of the press and of peaceful assembly for all citizens are fundamental principles for the european union which cannot be ignored in order to have a democratic, free and pluralistic society. in view of the fact that the country is a candidate for eu membership and a major nato ally and member, these conditions are essential. i believe that turkey must strive to improve democratic institutions and respect for fundamental freedoms. the state must approach the people peacefully and try to understand why these demonstrations continue. i am voting in favour of this resolution, because i agree with the points, even if they are negative, but they are very detailed in order to improve the general conditions in turkey.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that, after the events in gezi park, it is necessary to call the turkish government and prime minister erdogan to account. although it is wrong to link the turkish crisis to the arab spring, because turkey, with all its limitations, is and remains a fully fledged democracy, it is essential that the turkish government embarks on the road of reconciliation. i also voted in favour of opening chapters 23 and 24 to bring turkey into line with european standards on fundamental rights, but i do not think that the rejection of this amendment affects the overall satisfactory assessment of this parliament's position.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the situation in turkey. the protest of several thousand protesters against the renovation of gezi park in istanbul marked the beginning of a real uprising against tayyep erdogan. what could have seemed like an environmental rally turned out to be the beginning of a clash that makes evident the state of strong and widespread malaise throughout the country, where the awakening of a population aware of their rights and refractory to authoritarian rulers is putting erdogan's leadership, which has lasted for almost 11 years, to a severe test. although we can speak of democracy for turkey, the recent clashes make it clear how much more needs to be done to achieve a mature, aware and fully recognised democracy. if erdogan is not able to ask himself about the reasons for such a protest, it will be difficult to continue the process of integration with the eu. so it is hoped that those who two years ago tried to convince the then syrian brother bashar al-assad to start a process of reform and listen to the people will not fall into the same mistakes.
in writing. - situation in turkey: i voted today in favour of the resolution against the use of harsh measures against peaceful protesters. the turkish situation is worrying and i hope that following today's vote prime minister recep tayyip erdogan will act not only in the direction of reconciliation but also in the direction of understanding the reasons of a part of the turkish population. i hope that those responsible for the police violence will be brought to justice, that peaceful protesters arrested will be released immediately and that the victims will be compensated. i am, in the end, pleased with today's vote and hope that democratic institutions, the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms will be further improved in turkey.
in writing. the report focuses on the european external action service (eeas), whose task is to perfect the eu's foreign policy. in particular, recommendations are made with regard to the appointment of deputy high political representatives, to simplify the chain of command, to strengthen the political role of the high representative, to ensure that delegation heads are chosen on the basis of merit and that delegations themselves deal with the issue of human rights. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of national and regional representation in the european parliament, which will be based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. in view of the number of amendments and the difficulty of making any forecasts as to their usefulness, i shall abstain at this stage.
in writing. - i voted against this report despite the fact that an important amendment was accepted by the house. the reference to the right to conscientious objection in relation to morally sensitive matters, which was intended to attack the right of a woman to choose an abortion, which public bodies, first and foremost, but not only, must always guarantee, has been deleted. however, since another amendment, which the socialist and democratic group considered to be central, concerning the individual's freedom to choose whether or not to receive religious or moral education, was not adopted, i felt i had to vote against the final text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important recommendation from parliament to the council for the development of guidelines on freedom of religion or belief. all too often the media inform us of murders or mistreatment of individuals because of their religious affiliation. but the violations concern not only the freedom to express and practice one's beliefs but also other cases, including those in which conscientious objection to compulsory civil service is not guaranteed in countries. it is important to monitor these violations effectively with a stronger commitment from the european external action service and the heads of mission who should always report on situations of this kind. in addition, concrete actions taken within international fora or in the framework of development cooperation activities, as well as eu external financial instruments that should be used both as incentives and as deterrents (e.g. freezing of funds) in relation to respect for freedom of religion or belief, should be encouraged and form an integral part of the assessment of the overall human rights situation in the country concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief because i firmly believe that every citizen has the right to practice the religion that best represents him, with full respect for the community. in some areas, sometimes not far from the territory of the member states, the rights to self-determination, personal choice and religion are not adequately protected in the course of democratic life. the eu should promote initiatives in defence of freedom of belief and religion and, where necessary, provide assistance to third countries in respecting fundamental freedoms. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. - the turbulent events which began last year with the so-called 'arab spring' revolutions and which continue with the cases of syria and turkey - albeit with different modes of action and motivation underlying them - have raised serious questions about the protection of freedom of religion or opinion. the european parliament has always been a guarantor of the protection and respect of human rights, recognising them as the fundamental principles of the civil existence of the human being. it is extremely important to continue in this direction, also in the partnership agreements with third countries, especially in a historical period such as the one we are going through.
in writing. − the eu's external action as enshrined in article 21 of the eu treaty is inspired by the principles of democracy, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the protection of freedom of religion or belief, with the related measures of action necessary to guarantee it, is therefore a priority of the eu's external policies. unfortunately, we still see violence, persecution and discrimination against religious minorities in many regions of the world today, often leading to violent armed conflicts and political unrest that completely upset the stability of a country. i have supported this report because i believe that standard parameters and approaches should be promoted in order to contribute to greater coherence and effectiveness of the european union's policies in its relations with third countries. europe must promote policies in multilateral fora to protect freedom of belief and religion and, where necessary, assist third countries in drafting laws to protect these fundamental freedoms. its monitoring and evaluation of the situation of religious freedom is also essential. these initiatives are more than ever necessary to preserve the overall human rights situation, especially in the countries affected by this deficit.
in writing. − the defence of freedom of religious expression must be a cornerstone of eu action at global level: in fact, too often, in too many areas of the planet, individuals are denied the opportunity to freely profess their faith and religious beliefs. the situation is particularly tragic in some african countries, such as nigeria, where a violent religious war has been going on for several months, which has caused and continues to cause hundreds of victims, especially among the christian faithful. denying or conditioning someone's religious choice is a very serious infringement of the rights of the individual, and therefore it cannot and must not be tolerated at all. the european union must make it an essential part of all its relations, including those of a commercial nature, by including it as a clause to be respected by its partners. i also hope that more decisive action can be taken to protect, above all, the christian minorities in the world, who are often subject to oppression and violence, especially in africa and asia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses our serious concerns over the revelations on us intelligence and data-gathering operations under the prism programme. for this reason the s&d group succeeded in introducing in the report our apprehensions over the possible implications for the protection of eu citizens’ civil liberties and we call on the commission and the council to raise the issue with the us administration at the forthcoming jha eu-us ministerial meeting on june 14.
in writing. the proposal seeks to promote a transatlantic relationship between the european union and the united states and sees among its key aspects the need to organise as soon as possible a summit and a serious debate on the use of drones, and then the issue of the creation of the transatlantic political council for systematic consultations, the implementation of the promise to close guantanamo, reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and the freezing of new construction in israel. i vote in favour of this.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the reconstruction and democratization of mali. mali is experiencing a difficult crisis which requires comprehensive and coherent solutions to ensure lasting peace. following the recent unrest following the military coup, the malian authorities have regained control of large parts of the country and have adopted a roadmap for the transition to democracy, leading to the holding of democratic elections that will ensure credibility for future governments in the country. in addition to the fundamental political issue, the security situation in the country remains of crucial importance. the security situation in northern mali has improved since the french intervention, but the fight against radical islamist groups continues, which is why the situation in mali requires a response that goes beyond the reaction to security threats and includes a long-term commitment by the international community. the eu must therefore commit itself to the twofold security front in mali, protecting human rights which are systematically violated, and to the political front, promoting a malian-led political process that will enable the country to achieve political stability and long-term economic prosperity.
in writing. - i welcome today's resolution on the partnership and cooperation agreement with afghanistan. however, this path cannot be without effective management of the final phase of the presence of isaf forces on afghan territory. as the withdrawal of the coalition approaches, the attacks by the taliban and insurgents have intensified and we must not, for any reason, let our support for this mission diminish. in italy, the hairy debate on the withdrawal of troops, which is open to any loss that affects our valiant armed forces, does nothing but give breath to the propaganda that aims to credit the thesis of a country out of control destined to rely on the taliban regime. the efforts made to train the army and the police, the efforts to establish an independent local judiciary and the vast european resources allocated to cooperation programmes must be put to practical use. we owe it to captain la rosa and the other 52 italian casualties, to the soldiers serving in the isaf mission, to the civilian and medical workers on the ground, to all the europeans who believe in the final transition to a stable and peaceful afghanistan.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a coordinated and coherent eu position on the post-2015 development framework is absolutely vital. the positive results reached up to now show that the future agenda needs to be ambitious, multidimensional and flexible. poverty is taking on new dimensions. several countries have become donors, while others, facing high levels of inequality, continue to be highly vulnerable to crisis shocks. therefore i believe that targets need to be tailored to each country and must be simple and action-oriented. the eu should not miss the chance to talk as one strong voice during the discussion on the post-2015 situation and up until the un summit, presenting a comprehensive framework, with clear benchmarks incorporating the key development and sustainability issues.
in writing. − in september 2000, the united nations adopted the millennium declaration, followed by the setting of concrete and binding targets to be achieved by 2015. i believe that important results have already been achieved, particularly in terms of reducing poverty and improving the living conditions of the less fortunate. in this regard, and given that the debate on this declaration will be reopened in 2015, i believe it is important that the european union be involved in the review of what has already been written and in future developments of the text itself. the millennium development goals (mdgs) have certainly proved successful and i hope that the revision of the first text will lead to even more significant results, especially for the benefit of the people of europe.
in writing. − following the adoption of the millennium declaration by the united nations, significant efforts have been made to achieve the targets set by 2015, but there are still many people living in conditions of social hardship. for the development of the post-2015 framework, i believe it is important to focus on a stronger involvement of the eu, which has always been committed to the advancement of the poorest regions. we will have to put in place new projects to try to reduce poverty, thinking of effective strategies that promote sustainable development and i am convinced that europe can make an important contribution in the forecast of a new general framework. we will have to seek to raise the level of education which would promote greater employment opportunities, ensure greater health security through disease prevention actions, implement coordinated strategies by health and environmental protection institutions and ensure greater coordination between associations providing aid to the population. i believe that the commitment of countries to conflict resolution is essential and that joint efforts are needed to ensure the development of democratic processes while safeguarding human rights. i also believe that global action is essential for the implementation of common strategies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done on the vehicle inspection package. i am sorry that some colleague has used such an important and significant subject as an instrument of anti-european polemics. the aim of the proposal is to improve road safety, which is a tragic issue for all the countless deaths and for people who are injured for their whole lives, for environmental aspects - let us not forget how many diseases arise from insufficiently controlled emissions, as a result of poor maintenance of vehicles - and, last but not least, the fight against fraud. i therefore welcome the fact that the proposal aims to harmonise the key aspects of vehicle inspection, which is very different in each member state and moves independently of the states. it is important that vehicle technical inspection ensures the quality of the tests and the safety of the vehicle itself. i regret that it was not possible to approve the inclusion of motor vehicles, motorcycles and scooters and i hope that parliament will make up for this omission with the amendments proposed, and i join commissioner kallas in this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am concentrating on and referring to the text proposed by mr khun on the whole security package. the text on which we have reached agreement has the merit of taking due account of national specificities. respect for the principle of subsidiarity requires a transition to a directive; we must respect national specificities. the honourable member knows that we have had a lot of debate on this and that there was a willingness to do so. we must also be careful about smes and family farms, we must also defend them in practice, and it is therefore good not to separate audit activities from maintenance activities, where impartiality is guaranteed at member state level. we have difficulties - think of unbundling for large companies - and even more so we have to take this into account for small ones. i therefore welcome the wording voted for in article 12.4 and note an error in the translation which omits that the reference to iso 17020 is for example.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, road safety is rightly at the centre of the debate and the ambitious but achievable objectives set by the european commission and shared by this parliament require concrete action at national level. we need intelligent infrastructure that can talk to vehicles and drivers. the implementation of intelligent transport systems must be encouraged by seeking european leadership to ensure the interoperability of the systems. we have to look at the big problem and cause of big accident opportunities and driver distractions: mobile telephones, television sets, satellite navigation systems, including: this is the biggest problem that needs to be addressed. the same approach should be taken in the management of vehicle and driver data and the cross-border enforcement of penalties should be strengthened. we must promote research into the protection of the most vulnerable users: pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists. the helmet, for example, could incorporate emergency or directional light signalling devices to increase the visibility of motorcyclists. we need to address drug and alcohol abuse. patents exist in europe for systems which prevent the ignition of the vehicle in cases of abuse. we need to improve the driver training and fitness checks for driving licence renewal, increase the awareness of the risks of driving in urban areas; the local awareness campaigns have had important results in the school curriculum and this type of training must be given the space it deserves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the number of accidents per year, the number of deaths, the number of people who are disabled as a result of accidents is unacceptable for a civil society such as ours. we must therefore act and above all overcome the incomprehensible resistance of some member states. what you remember is shocking: the fact that we still do not have the same criteria for identifying the serious effects of an accident is really something that speaks for itself. but i think there are three areas where we need to work hard. the first is the drastic reduction in speed in urban centres, which is one of the major causes of accidents. the second is urban planning. vulnerable people are never considered when changing the structure or the directions of a large city. the third is vehicle safety, which should not be done in retrospect, but should be imagined when designing a vehicle. research must therefore be directed towards ensuring the safety of people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last week the us supreme court delivered a ruling that many have called historic, effectively opening the door to what is commonly called gay marriage. the very definition of "gay marriage" should tell us how this is a clear coercion: two words that cannot, by nature, stand side by side, a clear linguistic oxymoron. the term marriage contains an explicit reference to the maternal function of procreation, which is impossible between two people of the same sex and is not a law or a custom that says so, but nature itself. the purpose of marriage is the creation of a family that cannot occur naturally between two homosexual individuals. the universal declaration of human rights itself is clear, and in article 16, when it speaks of marriage and the family, it does not use the generic term of individuals, but clearly specifies that it is men and women. we must stop this dangerous trend, which is not only contrary to history, civilization and religion but also contrary to nature itself, which has created us as men and women who are different from each other, and it is the union of this diversity that allows the natural continuation of life and the human species.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i come from a region, tuscany, which has a strong maritime vocation and i am therefore well aware of the difficulties and the potential of this sector. i think it is important to mention the problems that the application of the services directive may create for thousands of families and small businesses whose bathing establishments contribute to the prosperity, development and safety of entire stretches of coastline. an excellence that only we have in italy and that characterizes us for competence and hospitality. we cannot risk this heritage being wiped out, perhaps by some multinational hospitality and tourism company, because that is the danger and those who have been following this for as long as i have know it well. measures to support lessfavoured island areas are also welcome. the establishment of free zones can be a useful solution which i would very much like to see applied, for example, to the island of elba, a territory which has suffered a severe recession in recent years and which could be given new impetus by measures of tax relief and investment aid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and would like to stress two points in particular which i think deserve to be highlighted. the first problem for sustainable and balanced growth is to generate integration between coast and inland. the coastal zones are too often exploited in a disorganized way, there is an excessive consumption of territory and there is a bulimic logic that tends to trample on values and cultures, while a few kilometres away there are areas inland for which a small percentage of opportunities can instead represent a stimulus for residents and guarantee the protection of the territory. i just wanted to make a small note for greater caution regarding aquaculture which is obviously called sustainable. as is well known, the introduction of certain types of feed and antibiotics into aquaculture causes pollution effects on the ecosystem which, in the most serious cases, can lead to eutrophication of water caused by the use of products containing nitrogen and phosphorus.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the crisis there is a section of enterprises - the cooperatives - which has shown that they are able to withstand more and better than others, that they are able to hold on, to defend employment - and indeed to grow in the crisis - also because of the value they attach to work and thanks to their link with the social fabric and the local community. cooperatives are enterprises which do not primarily pursue profit but want to promote work, welfare and consumption through balanced economic management and contribute to local development, including through good business projects such as in the energy field. this is so true that the term "resilience" was coined to demonstrate this resilience that many studies now attest to. stronger resilience, the will and determination to stand up, the ability to defend one's business and to generate employment. our own-initiative report is intended to highlight a particular phenomenon in this world, namely the role of cooperatives in the face of production crises and company restructuring. when a company is failing and wants to close its doors, there are several ways to transform: there can be management leveraged buyout processes, but there can also be forms of worker buyout - workers getting together, becoming cooperatives, to continue the activity. we must leave all these possibilities open. europe must support them, including through appropriate instruments, because cooperatives play an active role in restructuring to save companies from the crisis. we have set ourselves a strategy of reindustrialisation and the growth of new enterprises. the first step is to defend the existing firms and to help them through the crisis. the cooperative model, with its dynamism, its ability to adapt to change, its flexibility and the support of local networks, is of great interest to the european economy. it is, of course, the vision of the social and market economy that europe claims as a model, but for which it does not do enough. it is a challenge of economic culture, because these enterprises are a powerful lever for development and can be very competitive. if europe did more in this field, it would strengthen its economic and productive heritage, because it is a grave mistake to relegate this sector - even if it is only a part of the continental economy - to the margins or to weakness. there is a study, as scalvini points out, which is a leader in the sector, from the us treasury department, which shows how, for fannie mae and freddie mac, a cooperative structure would have prevented the financial disasters that then triggered the global crisis. interesting, i think, as a lesson for our view of economics and finance. in short, the report, which refers back to the resolution we voted in this parliament at the end of the previous parliamentary term, on the social and market economy enterprises, points to the good practices already in place in many member states of the union - cases of cooperatives that have saved businesses from bankruptcy - and calls for europe to do more, for the commission to do more and in a more calibrated way. it is called for the commission's offices to be strengthened and dedicated to this, specifically it is called for the sector to be promoted, to be involved in the social dialogue and for budget lines to be devoted to supporting these restructuring practices in the future, moving from pilot projects. i think that europe must have more courage in pointing out new ways of doing business and economy, in order to make the most of its civil capital also at the economic level, because there are considerable economic advantages here and it is a bit out of the logic of welfare which often unfairly relegates the sector. more needs to be done to give substance to the implementation of concrete and appropriate instruments and measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr toia, not out of solidarity with italians, but because he has produced a very complete and very precise report. the cooperative model is a model which, in this difficult phase we are living through, puts the real economy back at the centre after years of finalising economic activities, stimulating the spread of a micro-economy which represents an important form of social economy. cooperatives are often also closely linked to local development and production and often manage essential services for citizens, playing an important role in sustainable and inclusive development, aimed at enhancing local production, cultures of belonging and human values in a time of sometimes unbridled globalisation. i can only give one advice, namely that we must identify a regulatory framework capable of countering and identifying those instrumental attempts to enter the cooperative world without representing it.
member of the commission. - mr president, the commission would like to thank ms toia for her excellent report which gives us the opportunity to explain briefly our policy on the promotion of cooperatives. the key goal of the commission’s policy is to create a stable legal and administrative environment at european level but also in every member state. i agree with the rapporteur and most of the speakers who underlined that cooperative and other social economy enterprises create jobs for millions of our people, including vulnerable citizens facing the crisis. i also agree with the fact that these cooperative businesses are more resilient to the crisis itself. the commission is therefore paying particular attention to ensuring that these particular principles, specific needs, goals, efforts and the working style of cooperatives are taken into account and respected. this is done in all areas of union policy, such as in state aid, accounting, company law, competition, social services of general interest and others. that is why we very much welcome the comments in the report and the calls for action. the policy in favour of cooperatives has always been high on the commission’s agenda. at present there are a number of ongoing initiatives and activities to which i believe it is worthwhile to draw your attention. vice-president tajani is currently organising a working group on cooperatives which will hold its first meeting in his presence on 10 july. this meeting will be followed by two more meetings during the year. at the end of this action the commission expects to have a number of innovative solutions to the most urgent problems faced by cooperatives, which can be supported by concrete european actions. the aim of the working group is to assess the specific needs of these organisations in relation to all the issues found in ms toia’s report. examples of these needs are a stable regulatory framework, financial and business support, promotion of the cooperative model among young people, internationalisation and business transfers, especially of enterprises in difficulty. all these issues are mentioned in the report we are discussing today and the commission is aware of them. regarding in particular business transfers and restructuring, which constitute a whole chapter in ms toia’s report, in february 2013 the commission convened the first session of the transfers of business expert group. the group met for the second time last week and its work will proceed at a meeting which will soon take place. the european confederation of worker cooperatives participates in this expert group. it is also invited to give input to a parallel study which will gather data about the various facets of a business transfer. a final conference is planned for early 2014; it will showcase the good practices identified by the expert group in the study. we hope that we will then have a concrete programme corresponding to the report’s conclusions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in february 2012 the european commission presented its communication on a bioeconomy for europe, where it proposed to move towards a greater and more sustainable use of renewable resources and called for a shift from a fossil-based society to a bio-based society, with the support of research and innovation. a little over a year after the adoption of this communication, parliament drew up its own-initiative report, welcoming many of these requests and then strengthening and deepening them. in this sense, the text we are about to vote on tomorrow at this part-session - reflecting the unanimous approval of the envi committee - sends a clear message to the commission in view of the presentation by the commission of a next legislative proposal on the bioeconomy. i am convinced that the bioeconomy has enormous potential. given the major challenges facing the european union, the bio-economy can be the answer to fossil fuel dependence and the way forward towards smart growth. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of mutual recognition of the quality of medicinal products for human use. in this context, the bioeconomy could also make an important contribution to countering the deindustrialisation process currently affecting europe, reversing its course and relaunching a new european model of industrialisation, by which to encourage the creation of new value chains and curb the phenomena of abandonment of industrial sites, as well as supporting economic and social development with an extremely high return in terms of employment. to enable this potential to be fully realised, it is necessary to develop an all-encompassing approach and to look at the bioeconomy model as the synthesis in which the synergistic encounter between european policies for agriculture, industry and the environment, research and innovation and between the different decision-making levels from the community to the regional and local is achieved in such a way as to create a harmonious and coordinated environment in which a continuous exchange of knowledge, skills, information and know-how is possible. at the same time, it will be important to ensure and develop coherent and interlinked research and innovation programmes, to provide instruments to support industrial investment and to ensure that the results achieved have the greatest impact on society and are fully understood by european citizens. in this context, new forms of partnership involving public and private entities can also make a strong contribution to economic recovery and sustainable development, especially in the current crisis context. leveraging private investment through the creation of a public-private partnership dedicated to bio-industries would in fact make it possible to support and encourage the development of new products and to achieve their fundamental and effective transfer to the market, limiting the risk that more favourable conditions would encourage the migration of excellence and innovative projects outside europe. the bioeconomy model developed within this strategy - i am sure - will not only solve the chronic contingencies, but in the longer term it will be able to bring about more sustainable and efficient production, consumption, development and lifestyles, reactivating the european growth process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome mr bartolozzi's report because, at a time of crisis such as the one we are going through, it is even more important to invest decisively in the direction of the bio-economy. the european union must therefore also invest financially, for example through the new horizon 2020 programme, to provide the right tools for a gradual transformation of the economy towards innovation. i would particularly like to stress the strong emphasis in the report on the importance of the regional and local dimension of the bioeconomy as a means of ensuring sustainable, respectful and inclusive development of local realities and as a means of ensuring in particular the quality and safety of the food chain, with particular reference to valorisation. i would suggest to the rapporteur that on page 6 i would add the legal protection of local products in addition to promotion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am rather curious that anyone is surprised that the united states is spying on us - as if it were a novelty - but i must also tell you - i do not know if you know this - that in one of the northern italian regions, lombardy, there are more interceptions than in the whole of the united states, so we should also look at the problems of freedom and privacy within the member states before we look at those across the atlantic. i have to tell you something else, i've seen that more funds have been allocated now for youth unemployment, but i wonder something. austerity was called for by europe and austerity led to more taxes; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of publicity about what this european council is supposed to do to protect small savers with the 100 000 euro clause. but it seems to me that the enormous financial advantage which the council's decisions have meant for the banks of the stronger economies is more than obvious. if the large groups are given a negative priority in the rating of creditors in the event of bank defaults, this is like giving a good sign to the groups based in the european countries with weaker economies to move as soon as possible to the safer banks in the strong countries, with much welcome for the often trumpeted strategy of rapprochement between the economies of northern and southern europe. all the measures that have been disclosed leave apart this the time they find, let's not even talk, for the love of god, about european homeland, about youth work: four cherries. there is only one thing to do, to abolish the derivatives that are the cause of the banking default, the international banking fraud that is wanted and protected by the occult superpowers like the trilateral and the bilderberg club that currently govern my country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the g8 closed with a call for jobs for young people, but in the final communiqué it was said that the global economy is weak and that europe, mr president-in-office, is a black hole. it is a black hole because the mistakes of european policy - austerity without any planning for development, without a political strategy - have led to the difficult situation in which we find ourselves. even germany - mr swoboda explained this to us this morning - is in difficulty, it had the illusion that it could probably export outside europe and did not realise that if europe was weak it would end up being weak itself. the summit had a very partial result, postponed the actual choices, indicated even higher amounts than those planned of 6-8 billion to implement a youth employment programme, but it is not known how they will be spent, what will be the concrete and effective possibility of being able even in 2014 and 2015 to have the implementation and spending of this sum. the role of the eib, which is the most important thing, namely the role of the european investment bank, is not identified at all and, as has been said, it is not even mentioned in the final communiqué. there are no political choices and the division between the northern and southern countries is acute, so if the eu budget is 1% of gdp and the member states impose budgetary equilibrium, i believe that there is no possibility of being able to plan for the development of europe with this policy today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the numbers and figures that can be interpreted as one pleases, what should make us reflect is the difficulty with which this agreement was reached. a deal that's in the red, it's useless to deny it. the european commission should ask itself why the member states no longer seem to want to believe in europe, to the extent of drastically limiting its resources. the debate here is much broader and we must consider the costs and benefits of this union. in recent years it has become clear to everyone that this europe is no longer working and is a considerable cost, especially for italy, which has left brussels over 30 billion euros in revenue and expenditure in the last seven years. the benefits, i would say, have been rather modest if not nonexistent. the majority of european funds go to the south, which does not spend them or spends them badly, while the others are left with crumbs, which are difficult to obtain. europe has gone from being hope to being fear. we must think about this and draw the right conclusions.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to take this occasion to personally thank you and parliament for your strong support in these very difficult negotiations. i know that without your personal involvement and very skilful negotiations on the overall mff package, this result would not be possible. i would also like to thank wholeheartedly the rapporteur, ms dagmar roth-behrendt, and her shadow rapporteurs mr baldassarre, ms lichtenberger, ms wikström, mr karim, mr maštálka and mr speroni. we have been working very hard on this file under an intense time pressure and in the end i think we managed to get a very honourable and good deal. i am very pleased about today’s vote because through these approved staff regulations and approved administrative reform we have clearly proven that the european civil service is in tune with the european citizens. it shares the efforts of many public administrations for more savings and further modernisation, but it is also a good decision for the institutions and staff. we will still be able to recruit the highly-qualified staff we need and, at the same time, today’s vote makes it clear that to work for the european institutions means not only showing strong european commitment and dedication, but also possessing the great ability and skill required to pass a most demanding selection procedure and to be prepared to work longer working hours and retire later than most colleagues in the national civil services. i would like to conclude by saying that i believe that through this modernisation the european civil service will be fully equipped to deal with the current crisis and with european and global challenges and to work on europe, which will, i believe, emerge stronger from the crisis than it was before.
mr gollnisch, the procedure is that the debate should be held in the legal affairs committee and that is what has been done, so there is nothing special about mr le pen.
i have received many statements of vote. the sitting will continue until 2.45 p.m. at the latest to allow the services to prepare for the resumption of the sitting at 3.00 p.m. the other explanations of vote will be taken tomorrow after the votes.
in writing. - beyond the name, this function must be exercised with a great sense of responsibility and consistency. i would like to wish the new european ombudsman to work with serenity and with an awareness of the importance of his role. i hope very much that you will not have to intervene, but it is important to ensure that all complaints of maladministration in the institutions and bodies of the european union are investigated and analysed. careful analysis will help to identify problems and to solve them.
in writing. − after almost two years of difficult negotiations, we have finally reached an agreement that will save €2.7 billion by 2020 and modernise the european civil service. the savings are made possible by substantial changes and cuts such as the 5% reduction in hiring until 2017, the freezing of wages for two years, the raising of the retirement age and the reduction of various benefits. but the new statute will also make it possible to move towards a modern, competent and efficient public service. to this end, the career structure will be organised in such a way as to create a direct link between the responsibility assumed and the degree maintained. in addition, with the aim of rewarding those who deserve it and punishing those who do not achieve positive results, the jump within the same grade and disciplinary measures will depend on the annual performance evaluation report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments to the staff regulations. the amendments concern mainly general measures on career advancement, working conditions, pensions and allowances. it is good to let european citizens know that we voted for the 5% reduction in hiring until 2017, the freezing of salaries in 2013 and 2014, the advancement to higher grades only by internal competition and for managerial functions, the automatic demotion following 3 insufficient evaluations and the launch of the dismissal procedure after 5 negative reports, the increase of working hours without compensation from 37.5 to 40, the retirement age from 63 to 66 (and in exceptional cases to 70), the abolition of early retirement without loss of rights and the reduction of days of leave and flat-rate reimbursement. these measures will save €2.7 billion by 2020, plus a further €1.5 billion linked to reduced days off and increased working hours. this reduces the costs of the european bureaucratic machine and improves the efficiency of the administration.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague dagmar roth-behrendt's report because it is a compromise report after difficult and long negotiations. it solves the double equation of the reduction in staff and the freezing of their salaries demanded by the european council while preserving a european civil service capable of functioning properly. this report, which has been the result of a year and a half of negotiations, also preserves the essential principles which must be safeguarded to ensure the proper functioning of our european institutions.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the staff regulations of officials and other servants of the european union as it is necessary to ensure the recruitment and retention of highly qualified, multilingual staff equitably distributed by country of origin and by gender, in line with the high standards of professional ethics required by the european civil service.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the staff regulations of officials and the conditions of employment of other servants of the european union, because i consider that a process of modernisation in this area is essential. the demographic and economic changes affecting europe require the institutions to work efficiently, ensuring a good performance and a good quality of service. the recent enlargement of the union to include croatia, the tasks arising from the treaty of lisbon and the economic crisis which has engulfed europe form a context which must be taken into account. so while it is true that costs must be reduced, it is also true that the obligations imposed on the institutions and bodies of the union by the treaties must in any case be fulfilled. for this reason, consideration should be given to the possibility of a decision to reduce staff by 5% automatically in each institution and agency: it is appropriate to adapt this choice to the needs of each branch of activity. the proposal to introduce a new category of assistance staff (ast) would be acceptable, aimed at ensuring that the staff is efficient and always renewed, prepared and competent.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft council decision adopting uniform technical prescriptions for motor vehicles, their accessories and parts which can be fitted. the aim of the project is to simplify and speed up the procedures for the commission to vote on unece regulations on behalf of the union, thus reducing delays in the adoption of these acts. this should help to develop and harmonise technical regulations relating to vehicles and thus facilitate international trade. it is a most effective instrument for facilitating trade and thus for promoting our manufacturing industries.
in writing. - parliament's consent is required for the parties to the vienna convention to conclude the 1997 protocol, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. − this convention includes a commitment to apply the basic safety principles for nuclear installations and to define detailed rules which are updated periodically in order to better protect human health and the environment in which we live. i think it is appropriate to give precedence to the european union's rules for those member states which ratified the 1997 protocol before joining the eu and for those states which are contracting parties to the paris convention: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear safety is not compromised. i am voting in favour of this resolution because i agree with these objectives.
in writing. - the amendments to the vienna convention have positive aspects for potential victims of a nuclear accident, namely an increase in the amount of liability and a broader definition of nuclear damage. therefore, after consulting stakeholders, it is recognised that any initiative in this area should not hinder member states' accession to international conventions that improve the situation of potential victims in the european union. in this respect, accession to the 1997 protocol can prove useful.
in writing. - liability in nuclear matters is regulated at international level by two instruments: the vienna convention and the 1960 paris convention. given the lack of uniformity still existing between member states as regards the rules concerning the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of decisions in nuclear damage, we believe that the primacy of community law should also be extended to the member states which ratified the 1997 protocol before joining the european union, namely latvia and romania. we also welcome the council's proposal to authorise the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention, namely bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia, to ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the vienna convention was adopted with the aim of ensuring adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by establishing a special civil liability regime in the nuclear energy sector. i agree with the rapporteur that parliament should give its consent to the draft council decision on the vienna convention, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the european commission proposes that the council authorise the member states, which are parties to the vienna convention on civil liability for nuclear damage, to conclude or ratify the 1997 protocol amending the convention. taking into account that there is still no specific and above all uniform legislation governing nuclear liability in europe (in fact, there is regulation (ec) no 864/2007 on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations which excludes nuclear liability from its scope and regulation (eu) no 1215/2012 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters), accession to the 1997 protocol would prove useful. amendments to the vienna convention would have a positive effect on potential victims of a nuclear accident, as they would increase the amount of liability and broaden the definition of nuclear damage. moreover, no action taken in this area would prevent member states from acceding to international conventions which improve the situation of potential victims in the european union. in view of the considerations which have been developed, i have given my favourable opinion on the proposal.
in writing. - liability in nuclear matters is regulated at international level by two instruments: the vienna convention and the 1960 paris convention on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy. both conventions are based on similar principles in substance. the vienna convention was adopted with the aim of ensuring adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by establishing a special civil liability regime in the field of nuclear energy. in order to overcome the lack of uniformity still existing between member states as regards the rules on the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of decisions in nuclear damage, the commission undertook to consider the possibility of extending, in a future proposal, the solution of giving priority to eu rules also to those member states which ratified the 1997 protocol before joining the european union, namely latvia and romania, and to those member states which are contracting parties to the paris convention. it is therefore proposed to authorise the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention (bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia) to ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the pietikäinen report. i agree with the request in the text that the commission should be provided with more efficient and simpler mechanisms for assessing state aid, but above all with the need for the commission to refrain from intervening in the measures put in place by the member states, with the aim of implementing social measures which do not cause distortions on the market. i think it is essential to simplify the procedure for granting state aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important parliamentary position. the amendments concern regulation (ec) no 659/99 on procedural rules in state aid matters. whereas the commission has until now been required to investigate every alleged infringement, irrespective of the source of the information, complainants are now required to submit a number of mandatory information and be interested parties. failing this, the commission will no longer be required to adopt a formal decision. this will allow us to concentrate on the most substantiated complaints, with a huge simplification of work. the text we have adopted will also enable the commission, as it already does in the field of antitrust, to carry out investigations more quickly and more precisely and also to impose sanctions. the changes adopted are, in my view, in the right direction, namely to improve the handling of complaints and to ensure effective and reliable market information collection. in this way, state aid can contribute more to the implementation of the 2020 strategy and to the consolidation of national budgets. in addition, these amendments will help states to grant state aid in accordance with agreed rules and the single market will function better because illegal and distorting aid is greatly reduced.
in writing. - today, in plenary, we welcomed the proposal to amend a regulation which is part of a more general reform of state aid in the european union. we are confident that the adoption of this proposal will help to improve the handling of complaints and ensure the efficient and reliable collection of market information. we believe that the priority is to remedy the problems identified in the complaints procedure, making it faster, more efficient and more transparent, so that the commission can deal with the cases which are most important for the proper functioning of the single market. it is therefore our duty to ensure that the commission has effective tools to verify that member states grant state aid in accordance with the agreed rules and do not impede competition within the european union by discouraging illegal state aid. we also believe that it is absolutely necessary to resolve the problem of divergent interpretations of state aid rules in some member states; we insist that these situations be clarified by assessing, through market surveys, what kind of demand exists for certain services.
in writing. the european union must, as part of its unification of development, have modern state aid control procedures. the possibility of recourse and complaints for measures distorting competition within the internal market should be simplified. the new rules that apply must, however, leave the member states free to decide in certain areas, as is the case in this report. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the amendment of regulation (ec) no 659/1999 on the application of article 93 of the ec treaty to state aid, so that better functioning of the complaints procedures handled by the commission and the guarantee for this body to have fast, effective and transparent procedures ensure the proper functioning of the single market and prevent potential distortive effects on competition in the internal market from the granting of state aid not in conformity with the provisions of articles 108 and 109 of the tfeu.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the overall objective of the reform of the rules is to make state aid more effective in contributing to the europe 2020 strategy and to the consolidation of budgets, and i believe that the proposal will mainly contribute to making state aid control more effective. i also agree with the rapporteur that this new provision is essential to achieving the objectives of the state aid reform, as it will enable the commission to carry out investigations more timely and more accurately. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − state aid is an important contribution to the smooth functioning of the single market, as it contributes to a better allocation of public resources and to equal treatment of public and private enterprises, thus promoting free competition. since the european union has often found itself investigating state aid irregularly paid into the coffers of companies operating in the single market, an increase in the effectiveness of the control of such aid would be more than appropriate. i am in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 93 of the ec treaty in the field of state aid. i believe that the improvements proposed by the commission are the real starting point for action in this direction. improving the handling of complaints and ensuring the collection of effective and reliable market information would provide the commission with concrete tools for verifying the granting of aid, thereby allowing the community system to closely assist national courts in bringing the single market into line with the principles enshrined in the treaties.
in writing. − the proposal under consideration is part of a general reform of state aid, in line with the european commission's communication 'modernising eu state aid', and will make it possible to increase the effectiveness of controls on this sensitive subject. the main objective of this reform is to ensure that state aid makes a real contribution to the europe 2020 strategy and to fiscal consolidation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european aviation sector currently employs over 5 million people and contributes eur 365 billion to gdp each year, eur 1 billion a day, making a fundamental contribution to economic growth and to the territorial and social cohesion of the whole continent. this is therefore a key sector which must be able to meet the new challenges arising from other regions of the world which, benefiting from more permissive legislation in terms of building new airport capacity, are strengthening their position on the global aviation market to the detriment of european carriers. the competitiveness of airlines and businesses in the union must therefore be safeguarded and this objective can be achieved first by improving the capacity gap in many airports, either by allocating resources for the new construction of new works or by using existing infrastructure more efficiently, including and especially by improving the allocation of airport slots. i believe, and i conclude, mr president, that the fundamental role played by regional airports throughout europe should also be improved in this context.
in writing. − aviation plays a key role in the european economy: it contributes over eur 300 billion to european gdp and 5.1 million jobs depend on it. however, seven years after the commission's communication on the development of the community's external aviation policy agenda, the objectives have still not been achieved. new economic challenges are emerging in regions of the world where much more permissive legislation allows companies to build new airports that attract many travellers from european hubs. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'aircraft' in the definition of the term 'aircraft'. in my view, the european union should increase its airport capacity without delay to avoid losing competitiveness in relation to regions which are experiencing exponential growth in this sector, while at the same time making full use of the capacity of existing airports. i agree with the rapporteur that the growing number of low-cost airlines in the european internal market could be seen as a new model for strengthening the market rather than a competitive threat. the 'classic' and low-cost airlines could find a way to harmonise the european market and complement each other, so as to respond with greater stability to the challenges of external markets.
in writing. - i am voting in favour because aviation plays a key role in the european economy, contributing €365 billion to european gdp and 5.1 million jobs. the eu urgently needs to increase its airport capacity to avoid losing competitiveness to regions experiencing rapid and exponential growth. the growing number of low-cost airlines in our internal market could be used as a new model of strengthening rather than being seen as a competitive threat. the eu must safeguard a competitive aviation industry, the most important aviation markets are outside europe and eu industries must therefore grow in these markets. in support of future development, i stress the importance of the creation and implementation of eu mechanisms such as ses, sesar, easa and gnss, which were created to support the internal market, which will also help the eu in its foreign policy on aviation. it is necessary to establish certain procedures such as functional airspace blocks, which are essential for the implementation of the single european sky. despite the need for liberalisation, the eu must continue to defend european interests and standards. particular attention should be paid to labour and environmental standards, passenger rights and compliance with european regulations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the marinescu report, which tackles the real problems at the root of the crisis in the airline industry, stressing in particular that the recovery of this sector depends crucially on measures against unfair competition from third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr marinescu because i share his position on european foreign policy in the field of aviation. i share the view that this sector is a strategic objective within the development policies of the european union. mechanisms such as sesar, gnss and others are indispensable tools for the completion of the single market. the development and completion of these technologies will also serve as a stimulus for our industrial fabric, particularly for the poles of excellence which deal specifically with them.
in writing. - aviation plays an important role in the european economy and therefore it is necessary to focus on this area and make progress in order not to lose competitiveness in relation to areas that are growing rapidly. i therefore believe that investing in airport infrastructure is important and i support the creation and implementation of eu mechanisms such as ses, sesar, easa and gnss to help the eu in its foreign policy on aviation. it is important to have fair and open competition in all air services activities and to look for ways of integrating each other, as in the case of conventional and low-cost airlines, so as to respond more stably to the challenge of foreign markets. i am voting in favour of this report because i support the rapporteur on the points he has made.
in writing. - i am convinced that foreign policy in the field of aviation must be based on the principle of reciprocity. a comparison that puts market access, openness and fair competition at the heart of the debate is needed to ensure, in the end, a level playing field for all stakeholders. i agree that the main objectives should be to create benefits for consumers and businesses, while at the same time supporting the airlines and airport terminals of the union in their efforts to safeguard their position as world leaders.
in writing. − the role played by the aviation sector in europe is significant. it contributes €365 billion to european gdp and employs some 5 million workers. while this framework is maintained, seven years after the introduction of the community's aviation foreign policy agenda, the objectives set have not been achieved. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it sets out the necessary corrective proposals to implement and strengthen the external policy on aviation, with a strong focus on increasing its airport capacity and harmonising national legislation in a community perspective, so as to allow exponential growth to support the economic challenges of a global economy.
in writing. - we are aware of the key role that aviation plays in the european economy and that is why, now more than ever, rapid progress is needed in this sector. we have discussed this today in the plenary, on the basis of mr marinescu's report, which stressed the need to safeguard an aviation industry which is increasingly competitive. we are convinced that the european union urgently needs to increase its airport capacity to avoid losing competitiveness in comparison with regions which are experiencing rapid growth, such as the middle east, south america and asia. we also believe that investment in airport infrastructure should be seriously considered, even though the demand does not currently exceed the supply. we believe that it is essential to make full use of existing capacities, even those which are considered a competitive threat, such as the growing number of low-cost airlines in the internal market of the european union, which could instead be taken as a new model of strengthening. finally, despite the need for liberalisation, we firmly believe that the eu must continue to defend european interests and standards, in particular those relating to labour and the environment, passenger rights and compliance with european regulations.
in writing. i support this report by my colleague mr marinescu because it makes proposals for rapid progress to be made, particularly in the area of the reception and safety of air passengers. for the european union to maintain its central role as a hub for international mobility, we need to rapidly increase the capacity of our european airports to maintain our competitiveness and expertise in this area. we must be on the move to unify our european skies through a single air traffic management system to make it more efficient and safer.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the union's external aviation policy. despite its rapid progress and its key role in the european economy, the sector has not yet achieved the objectives set out in the commission's 2005 agenda. it is therefore necessary to support the european aviation industry on the world market through mechanisms implementing a consolidated and strengthened foreign policy.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the eu's external aviation policy. aviation plays a key role in the european economy, contributing €365 billion to european gdp. the commission will continue to monitor the progress of the union's aviation sector in the years ahead. the european union urgently needs to increase its airport capacity to avoid losing competitiveness in relation to regions experiencing rapid exponential growth, considering that aviation plays an important role in promoting connections between people and businesses both in europe and globally. this is why investment in airport infrastructure must be taken seriously and, strategically speaking, the european union must safeguard a competitive aviation industry: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, foundations play a major role in the european union, as they play a crucial role in education, research, social services, health, environmental protection, talent promotion, youth and sport, art and culture. i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of the duration and sustainability of the european foundation, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on aviation. since aviation is an important resource for the european market, it is appropriate to encourage its development. if the priority is to make the sector more competitive, the first thing to do is to strike the right balance between the trend of the single market towards trade liberalization and the need to preserve community legislation. i agree that low-cost airlines should be used as a model of empowerment, rather than a competitive threat: in fact, an increasing number of consumers are choosing this option for travel within and outside the community. supporting low-cost airlines alongside those that promote only 'classic' flights means responding to user demand and at the same time enriching and consolidating the market. as regards the joint responsibility of the member states and the commission to achieve coordinated representation in the international civil aviation organisation (icao), i think this is a good starting point for launching the aviation sector on an international scale by providing economic and legal protection for it.
in writing. − aviation plays a key role in the european economy, contributing €365 billion to european gdp: but unfortunately, seven years after the commission's communication on the development of the community's aviation foreign policy agenda, the objectives have still not been achieved. rapid progress is therefore needed in the aviation sector: the european union urgently needs to increase its airport capacity to avoid losing competitiveness in relation to regions experiencing rapid economic growth. for these reasons i have expressed my support for mr marinescu's report, which welcomes the creation and implementation of mechanisms to strengthen the position of european aviation, making it stronger and more competitive in the face of new challenges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr jadot's report on export credit agencies. the very balanced text describes in a very clear and detailed manner the situation of the national export credit agencies as provided for in regulation (eu) no 1233/2011.
in writing. - in recent times, opening up to international markets is a necessity for many enterprises and a desirable attitude even for those whose main focus is on the internal market. in addition to the larger potential market, there is more formative competition with a greater efficiency effect on the whole production process. however, international trade is now the exclusive competence of the european union, while export credit agencies continue to be national instruments for trade promotion. i voted in favour of this report because i appreciate the spirit of harmonization it embodies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. - the commitment of some member states (italy, belgium, the netherlands and denmark) to this complex issue is evident. however, we must recognise that there is still no established methodology for reporting on non-financial matters, and member states, as well as european institutions such as the european investment bank, still have to comply with the obligations of the lisbon treaty to demonstrate their compliance with the objectives of the union's external action. therefore, in order to foster better relations, further efforts are desirable in order to better meet our expectations for monitoring the work of the aces.
in writing. - the commitment of some member states (italy, belgium, the netherlands and denmark) to this complex issue is evident. however, we must recognise that there is still no established methodology for reporting on non-financial matters, and member states, as well as european institutions such as the european investment bank, still have to comply with the obligations of the lisbon treaty to demonstrate their compliance with the objectives of the union's external action. therefore, in order to foster better relations, further action is desirable in a way that better meets our expectations for monitoring the work of the aces.
in writing. - i agree with the commission's annual report to the european parliament on the activities of the member states' agencies in relation to export credit. export credit is an important tool available to member states to improve the commercial and entrepreneurial opportunities of european enterprises; it is therefore necessary to regulate this instrument in a manner consistent with the new oecd agreements but also in accordance with the principles guiding eu external action, including the treatment of environmental risks and the fight against climate change, which appear to have a particular impact on export credits.
in writing. the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the first annual report from the commission to the european parliament on the activities of the member states' export credit agencies stresses the importance of the transparency criterion to which the member states and the commission are required to respond when preparing reports on export credit activities carried out. in view of the growing importance of the aces' activities, i consider the considerations in the proposal to be relevant and therefore welcome them. while the usefulness of the objective of the delegated regulation, which would update the basic regulation (eu) no 1233/2011 with the new oecd agreements, is highlighted on the one hand, the need to comply with transparency obligations regarding the way the reports are drawn up is also highlighted on the other hand. it is clear that presenting an annual report of export credit activities in the form of 'confidential documents' does not help to fulfil this principle. the commission has a key role to play in this respect, guiding the member states towards the achievement of the objectives of the eu's external action.
in writing. − export credits are an important tool for supporting trade and investment by european firms in international trade. following the presentation of the annual report on the compliance of member states' policies with international standards applicable to export credits and international treaties, mr jadot's report recommends that the action taken by national credit agencies should be complementary to the aims and objectives of the european union's external action.
in writing. - consider the consequences of your words; it is clear that marine le pen, with her improbable and banal historical comparisons, did not do so. the request made by the lyon prosecutor is legitimate and the incitement to racial hatred is a serious charge, especially at a time when we are witnessing the resurgence of extremist movements in europe which are reminding us of the darkest period in european history.
in writing. - i am not a strong defender of parliamentary immunity, because i believe that politicians are citizens like everyone else, even if they have different responsibilities. however, in the decision to revoke the parliamentary immunity of mrs marine le pen i see rather a clear political will to strike at a person who represents ideas and sentiments which some may not share, but which must nevertheless be respected. i want to quote the speech for which legal action has been requested against mr le pen: "fifteen years ago there was the veil, and then more and more veils were seen. then there was the burqa: and then more and more burqa. so the prayers on the public street (...) and now there are 10 or 15 places where people regularly flock to grab territory (...). i am sorry, but for those who like to talk about the second world war and occupation, here we can talk about occupation, because this is an occupation of the territory (...). of course, there are no armored vehicles or soldiers, but it is still an occupation, and it weighs on the inhabitants. "now, tell me if these claims can be the subject of such a serious and tough stance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the creation of a common statute for european foundations because, particularly at a time of tight national budgets, foundations are playing an increased role in european union economies. therefore, with this text, we are asking for a reduction in costs and legal uncertainties for foundations and for the establishment of a new european legal form to facilitate the establishment and operation of foundations in the single market. in addition, i believe that the creation of this statute will establish a clearer and consistent regulatory framework for cross-border organisations which will contribute to facilitating their institution and operation in the single market.
in writing. − there are 110 000 public benefit foundations in the european union, with an estimated €350 billion in assets and an annual employment of €83 billion, employing over 1 million european citizens, many of whom are unpaid volunteers. the commission is proposing a statute providing for the legal form of the european foundation for foundations and operators working in more than one member state, in order to ease and simplify the legal, tax and administrative obstacles which make it extremely difficult to operate in other countries. i think, however, that some of the terminology and legal definitions contained in the commission's proposal still need clarification, particularly as regards the issue of workers' representation, and for these reasons i have decided to abstain in this vote.
in writing. − the foundations pursue objectives of general public interest, carrying out activities focused on areas of importance to the citizens and the economy of europe and promoting research and culture. i think it is important to establish a single legal form, the 'european foundation', which would coexist with the national foundations with legal personality and capacity in all the member states. this statute would benefit a number of actors such as member states, donors, the foundations themselves and citizens and would make it easier to free up resources for education, social services and the environment. i agree with the encouragement to the member states to have a rapid and complete introduction of the statute with all the guarantees of transparency in order to remove the obstacles which prevent the cross-border activity of foundations and to promote the creation of new foundations. i am voting in favour of this resolution, agreeing with the points made in it and finding it useful and beneficial to europe.
in writing. − at this particular economic juncture it is important to remember the social role played by foundations. the institutions are not always able to meet the demands of the citizens, and that is why their contribution is crucial from a financial point of view. the foundations are increasingly operating across borders. most of the fields they deal with do not know borders: i think about health research or climate change. i think it is right to remove all the barriers which currently stand in the way of the transfer of funds. a citizen must be able to finance a good cause, no matter where the foundation operates.
in writing. - today in plenary we welcomed the explanatory statement by our colleague and rapporteur, mrs regner, on the importance and benefits of the statute of the european foundation (ef). we are aware that foundations play a major role in the european union, operating in such crucial areas as education, health, environmental protection, art, culture, sport and research. they are also a major employer in civil society and live off the unpaid work of many volunteers. we believe it is essential that foundations can carry out their work in more than one member state without having to face the current long and costly bureaucratic barriers to the recognition of their activities. whereas to meet the obstacles of civil and tax law, expensive consultancy is required, resources originally intended for public utility purposes are lost. finally, we are confident that the introduction of the statute will bring many benefits to all those concerned, citizens, donors, foundations and member states, especially by removing the costly obstacles to cross-border activity; we therefore urge all eu countries to implement the statute of the european foundation in a timely manner and to strengthen its credibility and trust through full sustainability and effective supervision.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, foundations play a major role in the european union, as they play a crucial role in education, research, social services, health, environmental protection, talent promotion, youth and sport, art and culture. i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of the duration and sustainability of the european foundation, and i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − foundations play an important role in the european union and the benefits of the adoption of a statute would be many and significant. in fact, as they increasingly operate across borders, foundations face a variety of barriers, mainly of an economic nature. the main problem is the differences between the various national legal systems, especially in civil and tax law. differences that pose obstacles that can be overcome by costly consultancy using funds instead of public interest activities. the foundations draw on their own profits and funds from donors: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. in fact, a statute would not only confer personality and legal capacity on foundations but also reduce administrative costs and burdens, and give the fe greater certainty and credibility. donors would be encouraged to invest money and to provide useful resources to the foundation accordingly, encouraging projects in crucial areas: the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, and has recently launched a new action programme to combat fraud. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - foundations are increasingly operating across borders: in many cases, foundations wishing to operate in more than one member state or donors wishing to allocate funds to a good cause in a foreign country are hampered by bureaucratic problems. the commission proposal therefore aims to remove these barriers in order to facilitate the cross-border activities of foundations and to facilitate the transfer of funds. to be recognised as a european foundation, a foundation must operate in at least two member states and have a minimum capital of eur 25 000. the new statute of the european foundation, which is intended to coexist with national provisions, will be implemented and monitored by adapting existing structures.
in writing. - the report by mrs simpson 'on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2009/16/ec on port state control', while agreeable in its general objectives of increasing the protection of seafarers, leaves strong doubt that it was drafted to force member states that have not yet ratified the maritime labour convention to do so, which is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. i shall vote in favour of this resolution. the safety of shipping and seafarers is very important, and its absence would have catastrophic consequences for workers, the environment and commerce. the shipowners, masters and states must ensure that ships comply with the relevant rules. it is therefore important for the eu to work together to provide mechanisms for states to verify that the rules are applied on board all ships calling at eu ports. i agree with the member states' recruitment of inspectors with the necessary skills to ensure the best protection in this field, while respecting the rules of the legal framework and ratifying the maritime labour convention.
in writing. - i do not believe that european legislation on the maritime labour convention (mlc) should be weakened, while recognising the validity and need for some changes aimed at reducing red tape and protecting workers. in this sense, i am in favour of the information being passed on to the international labour organisation to promote the dissemination of best practice. i also welcomed the introduction of some proposals to strengthen the clauses on the confidentiality of complaints, so that seafarers are not deterred from filing a complaint for fear of negative consequences in the future.
in writing. the european parliament has long been in favour of the establishment of minimum standards for living and working conditions on board ships. today in plenary we approved the amendment to the directive on port state control. we are insisting, first of all, that non-compliant ships are unacceptable as far as the rights of workers and the safety of ships, the protection and safety of the environment are concerned. in addition, despite the responsibility to ensure that ships comply with the rules on both owners and masters, we believe that the european union should provide mechanisms to verify that these rules are applied on board all ships calling at eu ports, regardless of the nationality of the seafarers or the flag of the ships. it is important, then, that while we welcome the establishment of minimum international standards, we should be careful that they do not constitute a possible justification for reducing the levels of protection afforded by european social legislation. finally, we believe that member states should employ a sufficient number of inspectors with the necessary skills, including the ability to assess the living and working conditions of seafarers on board ships.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive. the latter takes up the difficulties faced by the member states in responding to them in an intelligent and methodical manner. the proposal for a directive takes up proposals inspired by the maritime labour convention (mlc) adopted in 2006. the proposal also makes it possible to establish the necessary regulations to identify and remove from european coasts ships which do not comply with the basic rules of good maintenance and safety for seafarers but also do not take into account the possible damage to our environment and to our coasts.
in writing. - i supported the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the conditions of employment of seafarers. the harmonisation of european legislation with the ilo maritime labour convention (mlc) through directive 2009/13/ec does not include some aspects that are crucial for the protection of the category but would fall under the responsibility of the flag state. it is therefore necessary to supplement the previous directive by clarifying international standards, including tools to promote the dissemination of best practices and the rights of such workers.
in writing. - safety at work is a key priority of community policy, especially in specific fields such as maritime employment. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/16/ec on port state control, because i believe that attention to the community regulatory framework on maritime labour liability is essential. it is necessary to adapt eu legislation to the union's external commitments arising essentially from the maritime labour convention in conjunction with the international labour organisation. in addition to appropriate legislation at community level, member states should undertake to monitor a system of control of the compliance of ships with safety standards, in order to ensure respect for the rights of workers on board and the protection of the natural environment. the invitation to do so would be addressed to the port states, irrespective of the nationality of the seafarers or the flag of the vessels, since flag states do not always fulfil their obligations in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, various statistical studies have shown that the main risk to road safety is the poor technical condition of the vehicle. the suspension of registration for a certain period is the most important instrument in this context to prevent accidents and thus unnecessary risks for citizens. moreover, the exchange of information between member states through national registers is of crucial importance in combating illegal phenomena and ultimately also in promoting road safety. the report by my colleague has addressed all the critical points of the proposal and as a result the aims of the report have been broadly shared by all the member states within the council. i therefore cannot but give my full support to the proposal and hope that it represents a substantial step forward and that the effects of these measures will bear fruit as soon as possible.
in writing. the aim of the 'technical inspection package' contained in the european commission's proposal is to support and enforce the technical inspection rules for motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and environmental protection. the proposal aims to improve the application of the rules on roadworthiness tests and the roadworthiness inspection regime, in particular where the technical condition of a vehicle creates an immediate risk to road safety, through measures such as temporary withdrawal or permanent cancellation of the vehicle's registration. the commission has introduced more precise definitions of the place of registration of vehicles than the current act and has introduced the revocation and cancellation of registration certificates. i support the commission's proposal in general and i particularly welcome the establishment of electronic databases for the management of vehicle registration documents. at the same time, i hope that the national databases will be linked to those of other member states in order to facilitate vehicle identification. finally, i would draw the commission's attention to the importance of mutual recognition by all member states of the validity of technical checks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr savisaar-toomast because i believe that this proposal will help to combat fraud and illegal car traffic, which in our country mainly concerns illegally registered vehicles from eastern europe.
in writing. - today, in plenary session in strasbourg, we approved the 'check-in package' proposed to support and enforce the rules on the check-in of motor vehicles, with a view to improving road safety and environmental protection. we believe that the system of road checks should be improved, especially in cases where the technical condition of a vehicle creates an immediate risk to road safety. we therefore welcome the proposal by mr savisaar-toomast, which provides for more precise definitions of the place of registration of vehicles and, most importantly, introduces the temporary revocation or permanent cancellation of the registration certificate. we are also convinced that it is essential to introduce new requirements for databases on the electronic registration of vehicles, and we hope that those in the various member states will be linked to each other in order to facilitate the identification of the vehicle. finally, we propose that the size of the registration certificate be reduced and that a link be marked to the technical inspection to reduce the actual burden that drivers have to carry with them at all times.
in writing. − in 2012, the commission presented a proposal on the 'technical inspection package' consisting of three legislative proposals aimed at strengthening road safety, environmental protection and fair competition by updating the current requirements for periodic technical inspections of commercial vehicles in the union. this proposal introduces a number of important new elements, including: a risk classification system for the selection of vehicles to be road-checked, the annual performance of a certain number of road checks by member states and the introduction of regular road-checking activities in consultation between member states. whatever technical measures are put in place, the effectiveness of a road safety policy depends, first and foremost, on the behaviour of users. i therefore believe that road safety education and enforcement are of vital importance. i welcome the proposal for the package, especially in view of the current enormous differences between the various member states in the way roadworthiness tests are carried out. in fact, according to recent data, the number of vehicles found not to comply with the technical requirements at the time of inspection varies from a minimum of 0.3% in one member state to 63% in another.
in writing. - we have today, in plenary, welcomed the proposal by mrs sehnalová on the harmonisation and strengthening of eu legislation on roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles, including the extension to two-wheelers. the proposal is based on the establishment of a european electronic platform which we believe is the right solution to achieve the objective of facilitating the exchange of information between member states on typeapproval, registration and results of technical inspections. we know that road safety is a crucial issue in our society, and we believe that the effectiveness of this policy depends first and foremost on the behaviour of users. we therefore believe that road safety education, training and enforcement are essential. we also support the introduction of a risk classification system. we believe that the selection of vehicles to be road-tested should be based on the risk profile of the operators so as to reduce the burden on those who maintain their vehicles properly. finally, we believe that road and technical inspections would be more effective if they had access to complete information on the vehicle's history and technical characteristics through a comprehensive data collection.
in writing. − unfortunately, road accidents still claim many lives every year in europe, and although legislation in several countries (such as italy) has helped to reduce them, there is still much work to be done to find effective solutions that guarantee greater safety for citizens. i voted in favour of the 'technical control package' because, particularly in the field of public safety, measures to prevent or limit accidents must be continually improved. the european parliament must also take a position in this area which shows its commitment to the protection of citizens and the introduction of technical roadside checks on commercial vehicles would certainly make a good contribution. clearly, the training of roadworthiness testing staff will have to play a very important role in order to benefit from well-trained staff for testing all types of commercial vehicles. more attention should also be paid to the checks on the fixing of goods carried by heavy goods vehicles, which are often the cause of accidents, and it will be important to harmonise the rules to assess the shortcomings of the system. the introduction of regular monitoring activities, shared by a number of states, will certainly make an important contribution.
in writing. the commission has put forward the proposal to be voted on in order to reduce road accidents, but on the assumption that there is a correlation between vehicle inspections in the member states and accidents, without the support of scientific data. although the report by the committee on transport has considerably improved the text of the proposal, i did not think it appropriate to support with my vote a document which is based on the manipulation of data.
in writing. - safety when we talk about motor vehicles must be a priority. i have therefore decided to support the obligation to check two- and three-wheel vehicles, which is already in place in my country. it is a matter of bringing to european level a standard which has given excellent results in italy in terms of safety. it is important, however, to find a common solution to allow more effective technical checks for motor vehicles and their trailers. at the same time, intensifying on-the-road checks on commercial vehicles would make it possible to identify critical points and to study a targeted intervention.
in writing. − the commission has recently presented new rules on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles, with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection. today we have approved the main elements of the proposal, considering it necessary to establish common minimum standards at european union level for vehicle inspection, while allowing member states to introduce stricter rules if appropriate. we consider it essential, first of all, that technical inspections be carried out by independent inspectors who have a good level of education and training. it is also essential to take strict measures against fraud in the field of mileage by recording mileage readings. we also think it would be a good idea to introduce compulsory checks on electronic security components. finally, it is important to remember that the directive on minimum standards for periodic vehicle inspections applies to cars, buses, heavy goods vehicles and their trailers, but not to mopeds or motorcycles.
in writing. - i supported the amendment of the resolution on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles to improve road safety by extending the application of these rules to motorcycles and trailers and improving the quality of vehicle tests through common standards for member states.
in writing. the resolution adopted today in parliament provides for periodic roadworthiness tests for all vehicles, roadside inspections for vehicles used in commercial transport operations and provisions for an improvement in the vehicle registration procedure. technical checks must ensure satisfactory safety and environmental protection conditions during the use of vehicles. these checks will also cover any type of trailer, regardless of its size, provided it is used with n2 or n3 categories of vehicles. i believe that road checks should be increased to improve the safety of european roads. i am very pleased with today's decision, particularly in view of the need to improve road safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say briefly that this measure, which is intended to improve the water policy and thus raise the level of safety and hygiene in our waters, is particularly important. the importance of citizens' participation is also underlined, and the data show that there is a highly aware public opinion on this issue. a public opinion that understands that water pollution is harmful to public health, harmful to the environment, harmful to people and therefore supports measures, even costly ones, to correct this reality. i believe that the work done is valuable and that it certainly improves the proposal for a directive, but i would like to stress on this occasion that it is precisely this importance, this centrality of water policy, which leads us to strengthen the action that many members of parliament support together with civil society so that water is a public good and as such is recognised and taken into account in public policies. public good means the management of something which is of general interest and cannot be subject to purely commercial and mercantile logic, but must be safeguarded for its specificity. europe is trying to do this, and my group and others, and i hope there will be more and more of them, will be committed to making this defence of water as a public good central to all european union policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, water policy is a policy of great future because of the sensitivity of the public, but also because of the use that is made of it, at a time when there is increasing attention to water, its supply, the complex water cycle on our planet. the march 2012 eurobarometer survey clearly showed the position of the european public, which is very concerned about water quality and the dangers of chemical pollution. it is a fact that chemical pollution is one of the causes of the increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the availability and quality of safe and clean water for our society. it was therefore important to implement appropriate measures to combat this phenomenon, to implement sustainable water management and to give a clear and rapid response to citizens' concerns. that is why i supported this report. i have one last concern, besides the website you have imagined, to give more publicity to this initiative.
in writing. - recent surveys show that chemical pollution is one of the causes of the increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the availability and quality of clean water for our society. therefore, the application of appropriate measures to control chemical pollution of water is a central aspect of sustainable water management. the commission proposal amends the environmental quality standards directive to update the list of priority substances in the field of water policy. while i welcome this proposal, i think it is ambiguous as regards the definition of the precise timing of the implementation of measures to meet the quality standards of new substances or the updated standards of existing substances. i welcome the commission's proposed checklist mechanism as an effective way of resolving the current dilemma between the need to monitor substances in order to discipline them and the need to regulate substances in order to monitor them. i agree with the rapporteur that we should limit the validity of this list to four years in order to avoid the monitoring obligations being indefinitely extended, especially if the powers delegated to the commission to draw up and update the list are revoked.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the seeber report on priority substances in the field of water policy. it analyses the amendments to the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive to update the list of chemicals presenting a risk to the aquatic environment at community level.
in writing. − the protection of the environment and community waters is a key objective for the european union. an effective water policy requires the definition of clear anti-pollution strategies. unfortunately, the number of pollutants increases with age and it is therefore essential to keep the list of substances which could cause damage to the waters of the european union up to date. i welcome the creation of a checklist of 'emerging' pollutants which, after appropriate checks, also includes pharmaceutical substances considered dangerous.
in writing. − chemical pollution is one of the causes of the increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the availability and quality of safe and clean water for our society. we are meeting today to approve new measures to control chemical pollution of water, which is a central aspect of sustainable environmental management. we are confident that some changes to the eqf directive will make the achievement of 'good status' of eu surface waters more effective and help member states to implement it more easily. furthermore, while a cost-benefit analysis has been included for each of the chemicals to be monitored, we believe that member states are in the best position to assess the most effective measures to be put in place to achieve the objectives of the water framework directive. finally, it should be noted that chemical pollution of water is one of the main environmental concerns of the citizens of the european union, and therefore environmental protection measures are in the collective interest of the community. we therefore propose to raise public awareness through information and communication actions on the results and impact of measures against surface water pollution by creating a website providing access to the river basin management plans established by the member states.
in writing. water is probably the most important resource we have and is essential for the very existence of life and man. the prevention of water pollution is certainly one of the main challenges that still await us, since there are still too many such phenomena throughout europe. the report we have approved today is intended to amend and update certain measures with regard to certain chemicals which can lead to the deterioration of our waters. constant and reliable controls must be the basis of sound management of water resources: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not depleted, and that the community's water resources are not depleted. europe should also make its voice heard in this area also vis-à-vis its international partners, because there are certain situations, for example in china, which are frankly unsustainable.
in writing. mr seeber's report is an ambitious report, and achieves most of its objectives by focusing on the monitoring of hazardous chemicals and by putting in place mechanisms to assess water quality. it is now essential to take account of the quality of water in the european union to avoid epidemics and contamination. mr seeber's report provides a list of chemicals and pharmaceuticals to be monitored, which quality control measures will allow to be extended if necessary. this is the dynamic that the european union must follow, to continuously improve the health of european citizens while preserving the environment. i therefore give my vote in favour.
in writing. - i supported the introduction of 12 new substances, three of which are derived from common medicines, to the priority list of substances which pose a risk to water pollution. the right to clean water must be guaranteed to all citizens of the european union, and increasingly stringent and precise controls are needed by setting maximum permitted concentrations in water for the substances detected.
in writing. - a motion for a resolution was voted in parliament today on the alarming issue of water pollution. the protection of water is of enormous importance in the european landscape. i believe that the inclusion of three pharmaceutical products on a watch list of pollutants is highly relevant in order to keep our waters under closer control and above all in view of the inclusion of these products on the list of so-called 'priority' substances, so that they are regularly subject to controls. i am therefore very pleased with what has been decided today in strasbourg and i hope that our waters will become increasingly safer and that environmental quality standards (eqs) will be better respected.
in writing. - from a position which was completely opposed to the water framework directive, the work of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs has led to an acceptable text. the main criticisms i raised in the envi committee concerned the prohibition of the use of pharmaceutical substances which are indispensable for the formulation of medicines of very wide use, such as the contraceptive pill and certain anti-inflammatory medicines. the compromise amendments agreed allow a positive vote on the directive, as some of the critical points have been resolved.
in writing. - chemical pollution of water is now a major problem. water is now a 'common need' rather than a simple 'common good', so initiatives to preserve its 'good condition' as defined in the water framework directive adopted in 2000 are always appropriate. updating the list of priority substances in the field of water policy and constant monitoring of their control is a good starting point for improving the conditions of water resources. the role of public opinion is of great importance: the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the quality of water is not affected by pollution. even before the innovative tools of scientific research, education on the sustainable use of water is essential. it would also be desirable to provide for planning of water resources and a policy of equitable distribution of them, adapting technical and economic requirements to those of the population. on the basis of the considerations made, i voted in favour of the proposal amending directives 2000/60/ec and 2008/105/ec.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the dorfmann report on 'certain categories of horizontal state aid and public passenger transport services by road and rail', as i believe that it is essential to simplify the procedure for granting state aid in certain sectors, especially if they have social objectives and do not distort the market.
in writing. - i propose to take action on state aid to update and simplify the matter, for example by clarifying the conditions for lodging a complaint. as the need is stressed for the commission to be provided with more efficient and simplified mechanisms to safeguard the single market, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i supported the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 994/98 on the application of articles 92 and 93 of the ec treaty to state aid to the category of public passenger transport services by road and rail, by providing for certain conditions and types of aid that can be exempted.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and i fully agree with the rapporteur and his work. that is why i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − the modernisation of state aid is an ambitious growth project for the internal market which needs to be strengthened in order to remain dynamic and competitive. a balanced distribution of economic resources in the single market is essential and a corresponding simplification of bureaucratic procedures would play a positive role. i therefore support the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 994/98 on the application of articles 92 and 93 of the ec treaty to certain categories of horizontal state aid and regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 of the european parliament and of the council on public passenger transport services by road and rail. extending the scope of regulation (ec) no 994/98 to other categories of aid by exempting them from the notification requirement would facilitate the commission's work to broaden the prospects of the common market. as regards state aid in the transport sector, the commission's proposal to include this category in the scope of the enabling regulation is certainly positive. however, it is appropriate to take account of the opinion expressed by the committee on transport and tourism on the manner in which such inclusion should be carried out, in compliance with community legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's communication on blue growth is the contribution of the european union's integrated maritime policy to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. maritime and coastal activities, together with the use of marine resources, must become the driving force for the expansion of sustainable development models that allow europe to unlock the growth potential of the blue economy while ensuring the protection of biodiversity and the environment. in this context, the proposal for a directive establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management is a key instrument. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported both in this house and in the committee the blue growth dossier and the proposals to realise the full potential of innovation in the maritime economy, especially in the light of the economic crisis and social unrest affecting several european maritime territories, and in particular the island ones. the latter, by virtue of their natural isolation and their peripheral location in relation to the market, should be the subject of specific intervention by the european institutions, and i am referring in particular to the maritime transport system which severely penalizes the island system in its complexity of the european union in terms of higher costs to be borne by citizens and businesses. the report therefore explicitly calls for the larger islands to be fully integrated into the motorway system in order to improve their accessibility and increase their economic competitiveness. finally, i welcome the report in that it encourages the commission to support programmes and initiatives aimed at boosting tourist demand in coastal regions outside peak seasons by encouraging tourist exchanges between member states during the off-season.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr danellis has done a very good job and parliament has done well in voting for this report. blue growth is a strategy for europe at the moment, but it is completely inadequate in the historical context in which we live. it is a very good piece of work which should introduce and instill in the commission's behaviour the actual setting up of a system of regulations. we need to fundamentally change our relationship with the sea. the sea is a mine from which the communities have drawn up to date, and the sea must become a great field to be cultivated for fishing activities, tourism activities and aquaculture activities. we must therefore initiate a genuine regulatory process, starting in europe and building up the actual spatial planning acts within the individual member states. you see, we have the culture of the master plans that end up in the wet and dry, that consider the sea as an external container, well, we have to make sure that activities in the sea are no longer the object of random choices, but are the construction of planning acts. this is true for tourism, it is true for transport, it is true for fishing, it is true for aquaculture, it is true for oil platforms - no longer a season of chance, but a real season of planning. if we do that, the vote in parliament today will become something concrete that will change the future of our generations.
in writing. − the commission's blue growth initiative brings together innovative proposals to seize the opportunities for sustainable growth and employment offered by the marine and maritime sector. i welcome this initiative and the measures proposed to regulate and strengthen the blue economy, but in order to maximise the benefits associated with blue growth, i believe that attention should also be focused on two particularly important challenges. the first is the need to ensure that the workforce has the skills needed for emerging maritime sectors, so that blue growth is synonymous with strong employment growth; the second is to ensure the integrated sustainability of blue growth, which is not damaging the fragile marine environment. maritime and coastal tourism plays a key role in the tourism economy of the union and coastal areas where, in many cases, it is the main source of income and employment. i believe that it has the potential to make a decisive contribution to the diversification of the european tourist product. in my view, in order to develop the areas of blue growth, action needs to be taken with planning at union level that ensures coordination and synergies between existing policies and the development of new initiatives and/or instruments.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of this report, as i agree with the definition of the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, which provides a clear indication of the potential of the maritime economy in terms of creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and promoting employment opportunities. i underline the progress of the eu's integrated maritime policy (imp) and reiterate my support for it. i am convinced that the seas and oceans will play an increasingly important role in the future of world economic growth and in particular that the blue growth strategy, as part of the integrated maritime policy, will encourage the development of synergies and coordinated policies also in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, thus creating european added value and contributing to the creation of jobs in the maritime sectors. i also believe that it will be a challenge for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) operating in blue growth sectors to secure adequate funding and therefore welcome initiatives such as the new eu rules on venture capital, which make it easier for smes to access finance.
in writing. - i did not support the danellis report on 'blue growth: improving sustainable growth in the eu's maritime, shipping and tourism sectors' in my vote, as it does not take into account the causes of the collapse of the european maritime sector, which is directly attributable to the financial crisis and the lack of adequate protection of the eu and member states for maritime businesses. it also expresses an unjustified and arbitrary confidence in the potential of wind, tidal and wave energy to revive the maritime sector and increase employment and investment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr danellis on sustainable growth in the maritime, shipping and tourism sectors because i share the commitment to develop and fully realise the potential it offers to contribute to the european economy. i think that this is a good thing if we have a european planning system which ensures coordination and synergy between existing policies and the new initiatives planned. the so-called 'blue growth' offers great opportunities for both public and private sector players to join forces and work together under a single regulatory framework.
in writing. - the crisis has made it necessary to improve the policy approach to the maritime economy. we must respond to the increasingly urgent need to create jobs and new economic development. this initiative will bring together innovative proposals to open up wide-ranging synergies between economic sectors that are active not only in the eu's coastal regions. the importance of maritime and coastal tourism, shipping and shipbuilding and the fishing sectors for the economy of our continent must be clearly demonstrated in the context of maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management. the blue growth initiative is also concerned with the protection of the italian seaside industry.
in writing. − the current context sees the seas and oceans as key players in future economic growth, not just in the union. in this context, the blue growth strategy aims to support the development of synergies and coordinated policies with a particular focus on blue energy, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mineral extraction and blue biotechnology. technological progress and the search for new sources of sustainable development, in addition to fostering the growth of the maritime economy, also aim to create new jobs in the maritime sectors. i therefore believe that special attention should be paid to this issue in order to ensure not only economic and social sustainability but above all high environmental standards, and in particular the protection of biodiversity, in order to ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of growth and a blue economy.
in writing. - we welcomed today the blue growth initiative, which brings together innovative proposals for the eu's maritime, shipping and tourism sectors in a realistic and coherent framework and opens up new prospects for synergies between economic sectors active across the territory. we believe that the over-exploitation of the earth's resources is driving up prices on world markets and that it is also an economic incentive to consider the mineral resources of the seabed. we believe that the integrated maritime policy agenda is the basic tool for defining the conditions necessary to enable european businesses to create added value in the blue economy. we believe that the blue growth project is a good one and that it is important to ensure that the workforce has the skills required for the marine sectors in the first place, so that the initiative is synonymous with employment growth. in addition, it is essential to ensure the integrated sustainability of 'blue growth', so that it does not harm the fragile marine environment and makes a significant contribution to the fight against climate change. to make the most of the opportunities offered by the project, we invite public and private sector players to work together under a single policy framework that takes account of the eu's new priorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on blue growth. the maritime and coastal sector has considerable economic potential for growth and employment. europe is interested in giving priority to this sector and maximising the benefits it can bring: the commission's blue growth initiative aims to promote employment by training qualified personnel, alongside sustainable management of marine and coastal resources. the protection of the environment remains a priority. in the field of marine litter, for example, it would be desirable to monitor the implementation of european legislation closely. i believe that a major role in the development of community maritime policies should be given to the regions, which have a local and therefore more specific and defined perception of the needs complained of. finally, the legislative proposal for a blue belt for maritime transport in the eu to facilitate the transition from land to sea, which would not only facilitate the market but also and above all increase maritime and coastal tourism, thus creating an increasing number of jobs, is to be welcomed.
in writing. − the urgent need for economic development and job creation requires a new policy approach to the maritime economy. the blue growth initiative brings together innovative proposals for the sectors of the future in a realistic and coherent framework, which opens up new prospects for broad synergies between economic sectors that are active not only in the coastal regions of the union, but also throughout its territory. if the blue growth sectors are to realise their full potential, action is needed with planning at european level to ensure coordination and synergies between existing policies and the development of new initiatives and instruments. public and private sector actors are therefore called upon to join forces and work together within a single policy framework that addresses the union's new priorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr toia's report because i believe that cooperatives should be supported, encouraged and protected. this is because in trying to get out of the crisis, cooperatives can make a considerable and important contribution in economic, social, employment and sustainable development terms. in fact, in a europe that is struggling, many cooperatives have proved to be more resilient than traditional enterprises. the data show that the cooperative phenomenon is increasing in the union and contributes on average to 5% of the gdp of each member state. the latter fact in particular shows once again that the economic fabric of the union is in the hands of small businesses rather than large ones. all this leads me to say that we must have a regulatory framework which takes account of the heterogeneity of the subjects concerned and which is as clear and uniform as possible. the transfer mechanism of employee enterprises through the creation of cooperatives should be facilitated, because this is a practice which is becoming more and more common in the member states. finally, financial instruments suitable for cooperatives must be created and access to union financial mechanisms guaranteed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this period of severe crisis cooperative enterprises have shown a greater capacity to cope with the extremely difficult economic and financial situation and have made fewer redundancies. the greater resilience of cooperatives compared to smes is largely due to the governance model based on joint ownership, economic participation, democratic control of the members, but mainly on being less dependent on the evolution of financial markets. i believe that more attention should be paid at european level to this type of enterprise, encouraging its support through dedicated actions to ensure its further growth and dissemination in europe. the toia report voted on today has highlighted the contribution that cooperatives have made to european economies and employment stability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, the last few years have been marked in all european countries by a dramatic crisis in the production system. the financial crisis quickly turned into an economic crisis and since then we have seen a constant and dramatic process of closure of companies, of factories, large and small, with the related loss of jobs for millions of people. in this context, which is not too dramatic to describe, the only entity that has been able to go against the tide has been the cooperative enterprise. the world of cooperation has created new businesses and new jobs. it is a fact which must be acknowledged, beyond any ideological dispute, and it is the concrete demonstration that this type of enterprise, which is essentially based on the idea of solidarity, has been able to constitute a fundamental element and an extraordinary opportunity for our economic system. it is an opportunity that must be recognized and exploited, which is why i voted with conviction in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cooperatives play a very important role in the european economy, contributing on average 5% of gdp in each member state. they operate in many productive sectors and play a key social role by promoting accessible social, health and educational services, with positive effects on the territory and the population. it is therefore necessary to provide for appropriate and updated instruments to support cooperatives. firstly, to resolve the legal uncertainty caused by the fragmentation of national legislation. second: ensure access to credit; thirdly: the committee on budgets has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain social security schemes.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the commission's support for a radically different eu approach to the production, consumption, processing, storage, recycling and disposal of biological resources. i believe that a bioeconomy in europe can contribute to the competitiveness of european industry and provide employment and business opportunities, particularly for rural and coastal development, provided that its activities are carried out within the parameters of resource efficiency and sustainability. in this context, i welcome the commission's recent announcement to launch a bioeconomy observatory to develop a framework for regional, national and european bioeconomy policies, and to set up a permanent platform of bioeconomy experts to help strengthen synergies and coherence between policies, initiatives and economic sectors related to the bioeconomy at eu level, ensuring a link with existing mechanisms. i welcome the ongoing review of union biofuels legislation to mitigate the negative effects of indirect land-use change (iluc) and to promote the market and development of more advanced biofuels that allow for greater use of non-food raw materials such as waste, residues and cellulosic and wood-cellulosic materials.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the toia report on the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis, because i believe that the possibility of converting a company in crisis into an employee-run cooperative can be a useful tool to deal with the prospect of unemployment. but it is a cure and not a solution to the problem of the job bleed that is afflicting europe today. to stop the deindustrialisation caused by relocation and dumping, the current course of eu industrial policy must be reversed immediately.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis, which i was rapporteur for the ppe group, because i believe that parliament and the european institutions in general should pay greater attention to this important economic sector. cooperatives are a great resource in the fields of production, credit and social assistance. dedicated policies are needed to highlight the advantages and disadvantages of this model, so that more effective and efficient models can be replicated. to overcome the crisis we must abandon the established patterns and learn from successful models.
in writing. − today, there are 160 000 cooperatives in the eu, employing 5.4 million people, contributing on average to 5% of member states' gdp, and they are playing a strategic role in tackling the economic crisis. in particular, it should be noted that there are many cooperatives in italy, germany, sweden and denmark which have succeeded failed enterprises or enterprises which have been saved by workers who have formed cooperatives and have continued their activities. the workers, as happened in argentina with the "empresas recuperadas", roll up their sleeves and, instead of passively accepting the ilo or unemployment, invest these resources, those of the tfr and other own resources to run the companies. in this way, they go from being employees to being entrepreneurs ("worker buy-outs") and save both the company and their jobs. the resolution calls for increased eu support, through a dedicated budget line, for these cooperatives but also through the eib's mutual fund instrument and support for training activities for new entrepreneurs. in conclusion, the cooperative world is able to counter the crisis, safeguard local jobs by preventing them from being relocated and, if properly supported, is able to generate new employment.
in writing. - cooperatives are an important economic sector in terms of size and impact on the territory and the population, both in italy and in many other european countries. the report also calls for the commission to provide the appropriate instruments to support them. it also called for the current legal uncertainty, due to the fragmentation of national legislation on the subject, to be overcome by drawing up a community regulatory framework valid in all member states.
in writing. - the attention paid by this house to cooperatives and their role in overcoming the crisis has always been very high. their contribution, given their increasing importance in terms of numbers and production, can be substantial. today, there are some 160 000 cooperative enterprises in the european union, employing some 5.4 million people. this is an important productive fabric which, in synergy with the other sectors of the european economy and the member states, must be safeguarded and strengthened if the union is to emerge from the crisis. the focus on cooperatives must not, however, lose sight of other industries of fundamental importance, such as smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis, as i believe that the significant growth of cooperatives can make a significant contribution to increasing the number of women integrated into the labour market. i also believe that cooperatives can be an important career opportunity for many discriminated women, and i am referring in particular to women in socially disadvantaged situations and therefore at risk of social exclusion and poverty, particularly in this period of economic crisis. cooperatives are of growing importance, as they make it possible to promote services to help social employment and to combat the marginalization of disadvantaged workers, particularly women. cooperatives are becoming increasingly important and their capacity to contribute to the fight for gender equality must be enhanced through the continued support of the european union.
in writing. this report by ms toia proposes to recognise cooperatives as key players in the crisis. the report also proposes to put in place measures to ensure a level playing field between cooperatives and other forms of enterprise, particularly in times of crisis, to provide better conditions for workers, to promote the transfer of enterprises to workers, in particular by facilitating their access to union financial mechanisms and credit to invest in their enterprises. all these factors lead me to vote in favour of this report today.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis as an indispensable business model with a major impact on the current european economic situation. it is therefore necessary to review the legislation for these undertakings, ensuring that they have the opportunity to develop and to overcome any administrative barriers resulting from conflicting national legislation.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis. cooperatives play a vital role in the european economy, contributing on average to 5% of the gdp of each member state. cooperatives are particularly important in times of crisis, because they combine profitability with solidarity, create high-quality jobs and strengthen social, economic and regional cohesion. many cooperatives have proved more resilient than traditional enterprises themselves in times of crisis, and new cooperatives have been created in new and innovative sectors despite the crisis. therefore, cooperatives need to be fully integrated into the objectives of the union's industrial policy, there needs to be a clearer and more consistent regulatory framework for cooperatives, taking due account of the richness of their diversity and specificity, and finally, financial instruments suitable for cooperatives need to be created and access to union financial mechanisms ensured.
in writing. - i supported my colleague's report because i recognise the important role of cooperatives, first of all in defending employment and, although not for profit, in combining solidarity with profitability. in addition, cooperatives have contributed to the regional development of several european regions. i also consider that cooperatives have proved to be more resilient to crises than traditional enterprises and that in many cases they were created as a result of the restructuring of enterprises in crisis, thus saving their activities and jobs. many good practices in the field of cooperatives already exist in europe, but we must now encourage their better circulation among european states, but above all i think it is absolutely necessary to ensure greater support at european level for the cooperative model and to provide it with a clearer and more certain regulatory framework. it is also desirable to use a specific union budget line, which provides for financial instruments to support business transfers to employees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis because they can play a significant role in the european economy in crisis and in creating and safeguarding jobs. in fact, during this period, several companies close to bankruptcy can be converted back into cooperatives with the important objective of safeguarding the work activity of employees. europe will have to promote early diagnosis to study the effects of conversions in such a way as to put human capital at the centre of the project and it would be appropriate to involve trade unions in diagnoses. the data on the employment supply of cooperatives are very positive and they not only play an important role in reducing job losses, but are also considered to be a driver of social innovation and contribute to economic development in various contexts. greater efforts will be needed to reduce red tape and remove legal obstacles to the development of cooperatives, and efforts to promote initiatives to improve their visibility with a view to raising awareness among public administrations and the political class of the contribution that cooperatives can make to local economies and welfare systems would be desirable.
in writing. - the report by mr toia highlights the role played by cooperatives in the economy of many member states and considers it necessary to take measures to ensure a level playing field between cooperatives and other forms of enterprise, especially in a period of crisis such as the one we are experiencing. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. it will also be necessary to work towards reducing the current legal uncertainty due to the fragmentation of national legislation in this field and to draw up a community regulatory framework valid for all member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the bio-economy is a fast-growing economy in europe today, with a total turnover of some eur 2 000 billion and some 22 million people in employment. it represents an opportunity to address globally interconnected societal challenges such as food security, scarcity of natural resources, dependence on fossil resources and climate change, while ensuring sustainable economic growth. to realise the full potential of the bioeconomy, the action plan presented by the european commission in february needs to be put into effect quickly. only a coordinated strategy at european level based on the cross-sectoral nature of the bioeconomy will be able to exploit synergies and complementarities with other policies and financial instruments such as the structural funds, horizon 2020, the cap and the cfsp.
in writing. - europe will have to face many social challenges in the next 40 years. the continuing increase in the world's population, the growth in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of the world's natural resources require europe to reflect on the new approach to be taken in terms of production and consumption in order to meet these new needs in an efficient and sustainable way. the bioeconomy could be one of the opportunities to respond to these challenges. i therefore welcome the european commission's communication on a bioeconomy for europe and i agree with the action plan for the implementation of the strategy contained therein and, in particular, its three-part structure: promoting research, innovation and skills, greater synergy between different policies and strengthening markets and competitiveness. in my view, europe must play a leading role in supporting this specific sector and in order to facilitate the achievement of this objective, the basis for a clear and stable regulatory environment needs to be created. i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to encourage the exchange of knowledge at regional, national and european level in order to promote the uniform development of the bioeconomy throughout the union.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am voting for this report because i believe that cooperatives, together with other social economy enterprises, play an essential role in the european economy, especially in times of crisis, because they combine profitability with solidarity, create high-quality jobs, strengthen social, economic and regional cohesion and generate social capital. i also stress the need for a clearer and more coherent regulatory framework for these entities, taking due account of the richness of their diversity and specificity. cooperatives are becoming increasingly important, with some 160 000 cooperative enterprises owned by 123 million members employing 5.4 million people. in recent years, hundreds of industrial and service cooperatives have been set up as a result of the restructuring of companies in crisis, thus saving local economic activities and jobs. consortia of industrial and service cooperatives have had a fundamental impact on regional development in some of the most industrialised regions of the eu. cooperatives play a very important role in the eu in terms of economic, social, employment and sustainable development and contribute to the achievement of the objective of sustainable economic and social development of regional and local communities.
in writing. the gradual increase in the world's population, the rapid growth in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources require us to reflect on the new approach to be taken in terms of production and consumption. today we welcomed the commission communication on a bio-economy for europe and we are ready to share the action plan for implementing the strategy contained in it. we are confident that by encouraging an interdisciplinary and intersectoral approach and by ensuring an exchange of knowledge at regional, national and european level, we will be able to promote the uniformity of the level of development of the bioeconomy in the european union. we also believe that technological infrastructure, scientific excellence, plants and bio-industries can really help to increase europe's role on the international scene in terms of innovation and competitiveness. we believe that the bio-economy represents an important opportunity to respond to the social challenges facing europe. we therefore urge the member states to make efforts in this direction, so as to put in place more sustainable and efficient models of production, consumption, development and lifestyles and, consequently, to reactivate the process of european growth and reindustrialisation.
in writing. − there is no doubt that talking about the bioeconomy is useful in raising awareness among citizens and administrators alike to be careful not to waste non-renewable resources. efforts must be made to avoid unnecessary waste or excessive extraction from the environment without guaranteeing the possibility of a turnover of resources in order not to endanger future generations. it is therefore important not only to avoid waste, but also to consume better and to exploit new sources of supply through research and innovation. creating a single european energy market would greatly reduce the waste of renewables in the solar, wind and photovoltaic sectors, ensuring energy at competitive costs. the intelligent use of shale gas and oil, alternatives to natural gas and oil, which are found in almost infinite quantities in rock sediments all over the world, should not be overlooked. i am not in favour of the bioeconomy as it is seen in the economic system called "happy degrowth".
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which, starting from the commission's communication, recognises the great potential of the bioeconomy. first, the bioeconomy has a positive impact on growth and employment, helping to reverse the deindustrialisation process now underway in europe. in view of the increased importance of biological resources in recent years, i believe that the time has come to change our approach so that we can exploit them to the full and, as a result, reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. first, we should improve coordination between the different european policies (including industrial, agricultural and energy policy) and achieve an integrated approach by developing synergies between community, regional and local strategies. in addition, we need to deepen research in the field of biological resources and ensure that the results are effectively translated into market applications. finally, i support the commission's proposal for public-private partnerships in the bio-industries sector, as it can help the transition to the bio-economy. this economic model will give us greater sustainability and efficiency than the current economic model.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on innovation for sustainable growth using the bioeconomy tool to lead europe in this direction. the bio-economy is a smart response to the social challenges europe continually faces. while economic growth is a strong demand, it is also essential to safeguard biodiversity and ecosystems so that economic viability does not mean the loss and degradation of resources, and such a policy would certainly help make european industry more competitive on an international scale. the first is the need for a regulatory framework at community level to coordinate development initiatives while encouraging interdisciplinary and intersectoral exchange of expertise. i agree with the commission's recent announcement that it will launch a framework observatory for regional, national and european policies and a platform of biochemistry experts to work in this direction. as regards biomass production, it would be desirable to exploit the biodiversity available in many european regions, rather than resorting to imports. in addition, it would be desirable to promote a sustainable lifestyle by informing consumers of the benefits that would result.
in writing. − the bioeconomy is a key element in meeting the major energy, demographic, food and social challenges facing the european union. while this is the answer to fossil fuel dependency, it can also mean a more sustainable and efficient use of resources in the long term, with a reduced environmental impact. for these reasons, the eu must work to become a dynamic international research and innovation centre in the field of bioeconomy research: the development of biodiversity is an essential factor in achieving the millennium development goals and can also be an important factor in relaunching the european growth process.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the situation in bulgaria.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to point out to you two problems which have emerged quite clearly from the recent events, namely those which have affected european countries, including my own, in the face of floods. when we talk about protection and prevention, we can no longer reason with the parameters of the past. the vast majority, i would say the totality of floods, are caused by sudden precipitation of a magnitude not comparable to historical floods. we are therefore facing a climate change which also requires a review of the criteria for prevention and protection. the second theme is the speed of action: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if an economic activity does not resume in good time, it is damage on top of damage. so i think that is another reason why we will have to review our rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to address the council, but above all the eleven countries which have joined the enhanced cooperation because they must decide what to do and soon. in particular, i believe that they must draw a line of demarcation between where the boundaries of reasonable compromise lie and where the territory of yielding to the lobbying pressures of the powerful banking and financial powers begins. in this sense, the idea of moving the enhanced cooperation agreement halfway instead of at the beginning of 2014 would not seem to me to be good news. it is true that we must take things seriously, but that is no good reason to enter into the logic of postponement and delay. let's look at it from another angle. the transaction tax is an opportunity to demonstrate the autonomy of political choices and decisions in relation to the enormous power accumulated by the financial markets, a way to also loosen the perverse link between sovereign debts and the banking system. does that mean we are unreasonable? i'm not sure. the european parliament, as mr podimata has said, has shown itself to be reasonable, and no one wants to underestimate the undesirable side effects of a measure like this, but the lobbying campaign unleashed has appeared excessive, out of proportion and disproportionate. let's try to be balanced, there is no relationship between the amount of transactions made and the positive development of the financial markets. for these reasons, i do not believe that a reasonable compromise should lead to the total exclusion of government securities, secondary market sovereign bonds and derivatives. it is right to show flexibility in application and not to standardize rates and products, but it is not possible to exempt almost everything, and i think that this should be borne in mind by the countries which have accepted enhanced cooperation. we must show both courage and reasonableness in dealing with the taxpayers of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs podimata, and all the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. this tax, which we are very keen to see introduced, is a clear sign of our intention to regulate the financial sector by preventing the speculative activities which are at the root of the economic crisis. the fact that eleven member states have committed to applying it is an important step forward, but the tax will only be optimal when it is applied by all member states and beyond. the commission has also proposed that the tax be applied uniformly, without any discretion on the part of the member states. it would involve a shift of capital in favour of certain countries, fragmenting the internal market and requiring the harmonization of quotas at european level. it is important that the revenue from the financial transaction tax should benefit the eu budget, which could be used more productively. this revenue should not replace national contributions but could simply be added to them in order to increase the spending capacity of the european union. i fully agree with what mr balcells said, commissioner, that it is necessary to provide for exemptions for non-speculative financial activities which have a social function and support the real economy. i am glad that these reflections have been included in the text we are going to vote on tomorrow. the financial transaction tax which we must apply at european level must have a precise purpose: significantly reduce speculative and dangerous activities, protecting european citizens and business, generating revenue that is used for productive purposes in support of european economic growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are fortunate to have a good proposal thanks to the excellent work of mr podimata. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposals are reasonable proposals, the derogations are limited derogations, and what we have discussed must now be implemented rapidly, starting with the measures resulting from enhanced cooperation. enough with this story that if everyone is not there, nothing can be done. really, when it comes to financial activities it's very important to start, to have the rules and the restraints of the case, but not to wait for everyone to be available before taking the first step. in the political context in which the european union is living today, it is very important to give a clear signal against speculation and to find the... (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the proposal, namely to hit the financial sector which is primarily responsible for the crisis we are experiencing, can only be shared. however, i have reservations about the real effectiveness of this initiative. firstly, it is clear that in order to work it should be applied globally, in which case the european union itself is not united, but is clearly divided within itself. i am certainly not a supporter of the city of london, but i believe that with this proposal we will be giving another gift to the british people, which will increase their presence and their weight on the international financial markets. i am not a fan of those who play with finance either because there are too many hidden risks and pitfalls and that is why i would like, for example, a clear separation between commercial and investment banking. the latter should be able to carry on their activities in europe too, but this tax is likely to kill them from the start.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope i am the left eye. i would like to stress two aspects of the discussion we are having. the first concerns the uniformity of penalties, which i consider very important in order to provide certainty in an objectively difficult market and, above all, to guarantee consumers the conditions that are too often lacking because of the characteristics which differentiate individual investment firms. the second part is the part on the remuneration of managers. it is a subject which concerns not only this sector but all production and all industrial sectors in europe, not just financial ones. when the variable part takes on the size it has today - and to the variable part i would add the benefits - it is inevitable that the behaviour of managers is aimed only at short-term return with a huge alteration of rights and conditions both in the market and in relation to consumers. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start with a comment which is included in the text: the introduction of glass-steagall banking segregation in the united states helped us get out of the worst crisis ever. the crisis of 1929 had hit finance and the economy hard and this measure of 1933 had helped to restore confidence in the banking system and to overcome the difficult situation. from the 1990s onwards, this legislation was gradually dismantled, until it was finally abolished in 1999. it is no coincidence that since then speculative banking and international financial disasters have multiplied beyond measure. the immediate solution would therefore be to return to those origins with measures aimed at providing for a clear separation between commercial and investment banks, prohibiting any interconnection between these two realities. the text we are discussing today is a reasonable compromise which would certainly improve the present situation. however, i would have preferred more courage, since it leaves open the possibility that two entities with different functions can coexist under the same roof, thus leaving the door open to possible cross-fertilizations and interventions. commercial banks must have a distinct reality, with greater safeguards and guarantees for deposits and better tax treatment than commercial and investment banks which play on the markets, even make agreements against eu competition as demonstrated by the recent survey... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs mccarthy and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this dossier. after the financial crisis, it was clear that the european banking sector needed to be reformed. it is true that in some countries banking systems have held up well, but it is also true that in several countries we have seen the collapse of credit systems and the use of state aid which have made the european citizens pay the price for the undisciplined activities of the banks. in this situation, banking reform was inevitable and necessary. separating banking from risky and retail activities is a good way of simplifying the banking structure by making it more transparent, but we must avoid initiating such separations in a blatant way. there are financial activities which are marginal and which do not carry out speculative activities but, on the contrary, support entrepreneurial activity. care must therefore be taken not to eliminate these activities from the credit systems to the detriment of european enterprises. we must be ambitious and aim for a true banking union, only then can we have the most stable and secure credit system that can restore the transmission mechanism between banks and the real economy. this will put an end to the credit crunch and move towards a more transparent system. the banking union is therefore, commissioner barnier, the turning point for the resumption of growth and we must therefore move in this direction without delay and as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am fully convinced that a restructuring of the banking system is necessary and that in this context, in particular, an outsourcing of investment activities must be considered. however, we must be careful not to throw the child out with the bath. we have a whole series of small and medium-sized locally-based banks in europe that also offer investment banking products to their customers without this being an important part of their business. we must continue to allow this! we cannot allow these small banks to fall victim to the regulatory frenzy. the approach of the liikanen report and the proportionality it envisaged were therefore right and we should support them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to focus on the rights of citizens to freedom and privacy, which should always be respected in the fight against fraud. i report that in italy since 24 june all citizens are officially spied on by the tax authorities, following the adoption of the sid (system for the interchange of data). in the name of combating tax evasion, the tax authorities will be allowed access to sensitive data even in the absence of a crime, thus establishing a kind of police state. the fight to escape has become a control of every detail of our lives, where we are all suspected of being potential escapees. however, escape is often not the problem but the consequence of the problem. one of the problems is the excessive tax pressure applied by the states which leads to the killing of businesses, loss of jobs, despair in families, increased evasion and suicides. in order to promote a more effective fight against fraud, sustainable tax regimes must be applied so that tax evasion is not physiological for people's survival.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the vote we are going to take tomorrow will be an important one. many crises of the recent past have already been recalled, and we all remember the 14 000 cases of avian influenza in europe alone in 2009, not to mention the hundreds of thousands of other cases worldwide. the volcanic cloud of 2010; in the summer of 2011, the escherichia coli bacteria came to the forefront of european attention, creating this food crisis that we cannot forget. in all these crises, gaps have been revealed which have not allowed us to manage these crises in the best way, with the efficiency and effectiveness that we all want to see; the first is the lack of a coherent communication and coordination strategy. i think that the pargneaux report is intended to respond precisely to the need to ensure greater efficiency and speed in responding to crossborder threats. i hope we have really learned our lesson and - as the commissioner said a moment ago - we can close these gaps and with tomorrow's vote really mark a milestone for the security of all european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, madam president, and good work for your country's first european presidency. i want to make two points: the first is the complex finalisation of the more than 70 legislative dossiers accompanying the financial framework. whatever the figures and the negotiations, important points remain open which can qualitatively characterize our work, the work of the european union of the future, and we therefore count on the work of your presidency for an intelligent and far-sighted agreement with the positions of parliament which have matured in these months. the other point concerns growth and economic recovery. we are in favour of - as mr swoboda has said - fiscal consolidation which reconciles growth with employment. this means that our economy must regain momentum and we must strengthen the productive world of business and work by supporting manufacturing. we have left industry with its innovation and human capital too far behind in our vision of the future of europe. we must now do something about it and industrial policy must be given more weight. in some countries there is already a call for companies to return to europe, those companies which have left. your work will be a feature of the forthcoming european council in february, but it will be developed during these months to prepare it for industrial policy. the last word i want to mention is the word you used, of the three adjectives for your action: a credible europe i like it, i think it is appropriate; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has been a very important institution in the past, and it is not just the council that has been the most important institution in the world.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the sakharov prize for 2010 has been awarded to guillermo fariñas. at the time, he was unable to attend the award ceremony. i am particularly pleased to welcome guillermo fariñas hernandez to the european parliament. the fact that he is present in the european parliament these days allows us to award him the prize in person. we wish to acknowledge and commend his constant and outstanding efforts in support of the struggle for freedom in cuba and his commitment to democratic principles and values. i would also like to extend a warm and particularly affectionate welcome to mrs alicia hernandez cabeza, who has made the long journey to the european parliament to be with her son on this special occasion. i think we can all easily imagine her pain, her grief and her sadness when her son was imprisoned and during her frequent hunger strikes. over the years, she has found the strength and courage to stand by her son and support him in his fight for freedom. i would now like to speak directly to mr fariñas. dear freedom fighter, your strong beliefs and political activity have cost you more than 11 years in prison and 23 hunger strikes. i'll give you some of it if you let me. you are the third cuban citizen to be awarded the sakharov prize for freedom of thought, after the late and late oswaldo paya in 2002, and the "damas de blanco" in 2005. in 2010, when the european parliament awarded you the sakharov prize, you said, and i quote, "this is not a prize for guillermo fariñas, but for all cuban dissent". there are different ways to fight for freedom, especially for freedom of thought. on many occasions you have chosen the hunger strike as a weapon to demonstrate against the dictatorship of your country, you have put your own health at risk and you have done it more than once with great courage. your tenacity almost cost you your life, but at the same time you forced the cuban government to agree to the release of 52 political prisoners. for some months now you have been allowed to travel abroad and to continue your struggle beyond the borders of cuba. you are not alone in this long journey to freedom and democracy. as a concrete example of its support for the development of democracy in your country, over the years the european parliament has adopted several resolutions on cuba, in which it has reiterated its condemnation of human rights violations. in this connection, i would like to mention some unacceptable facts: in total, the cuban commission for human rights documented 6,602 cases of arbitrary short-term detention in 2012, 50% more than in 2011. despite the worrying situation, we would like to remain optimistic and hope that the cuban people can one day enjoy freedom and prosperity. i can assure you, mr guillermo, that the european union and its parliament will stand by the cuban people and their aspirations for democracy and will always express their strong support for freedom of thought in cuba and elsewhere in the world. mr. fariñas, my dear guillermo, i would like to express my gratitude to you, using the words of martin luther king: "there are men who write history, there are men who read history, and there are men who make history". you, by your example, make history of the inalienable right to respect for dignity and freedom. that's why you were awarded the sakharov prize which is the prize for freedom of thought. you found a way to express yourself under very difficult circumstances. we look forward to the day when all cubans and all citizens of the world can express themselves freely without fear of repression. distinguished colleagues and distinguished guests, thank you for your attention.
awarded the sakharov prize. - mr martin schulz, who is absent because of internal problems in his country, president of the european parliament, mr vice-president, honourable members, i should like to begin by telling you a personal story: when i left my first prison, my mother, who is very concerned, tried to get me to go into exile and, with tears in her eyes, asked me to fill in the papers. i told him that he hadn't taught me so much about cuban patriots, because he had always taught me to try to be like them. if i'm here, it's because this woman made me what i am. she's the reason i'm here. (applause) exactly three years ago, you awarded me the sakharov prize for freedom of conscience, making me the third cuban to receive this important award, which honors not only the recipients, but also the parliament that awards it, and above all, the legacy of the great humanist from whom its name is derived, andrei sakharov, an example and inspiration for all of us who face totalitarian regimes that deny the most basic and essential freedoms to their citizens. it was precisely because of that circumstance that i was unable to be present at the ceremony organized on that occasion. my place was taken by an empty chair, as a faithful reminder that in my country the absence of human rights remains the most urgent need of society. i am here today, not because this situation has changed in any substantial way, but because the realities of the modern world and, above all, the growing civic challenge of the cuban people, have forced the regime that governs us to, like the legendary prince don fabrizio corbera of the leopard, "change something, in order not to change anything". not all cubans can leave cuba freely, but all cubans remain subject to the arbitrariness of a government that considers the universal declaration of human rights to be "enemy propaganda". it is now dawn in cuba and, as yesterday and many days ago, arrests, threats, beatings and imprisonments will continue. it's been a long journey, full of unpleasantness, but also of great satisfaction. we have risked our lives for this cause and we will not hesitate to do so again, because we believe that what is at stake in our destiny is not a political or economic equation, but the very foundation of life and human coexistence, which is freedom. the man who stands before you today has had the opportunity to come into contact with different cultures and races, personalities and creeds, and in all of them i have found the same essence, the pursuit of well-being and happiness that is our right as human beings. and that's only democracy. it is precisely this communion of ideals that has impressed me the most, that has strengthened my convictions the most. a month ago i had the opportunity to meet with alexander milinkievich and other leaders of the belarusian opposition, and i was very impressed to find immediately not only common ground but also brotherhood and camaraderie. as in cuba, we face not only the despotism of a dictatorial government, but also the complexities and, in a way, even the complications of the international political landscape. (applause) i ask for support and solidarity for these brothers, who, like us, are facing the last communist dictatorship on our respective continents. but do not trust yourselves for a single second as europeans, because you too are in danger of losing your democracies, because all dictatorships tend to create complicity and to contaminate their neighbours, and they have in europe the shame that is still belarus. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, i have heard a lot about realpolitik in recent days, but let me remind you that the most real of policies, the most authentic and true meaning of this noble practice is precisely centred on the human being as the object and subject of any social order. if people cannot express themselves freely, if agreements and deliberations between nations or political bodies do not result in the predominance of law and the right of individuals over any creed or ideology, then such an exercise is neither real nor political. (applause) this is not my own personal opinion, but a vision shared by my fellow fighters inside cuba. many of them have given their lives in this endeavour, such as laura pollán toledo and oswaldo payá sardiñas, who preceded me in receiving this prestigious award. others, such as wilman villar mendoza, orlando zapata tamayo, juan wilfredo soto garcía and harold cepero, also sacrificed their lives for the same ideals that inspire us today. with my hunger strike i managed to free 116 political prisoners and many of their relatives went abroad, but with their sacrifice, these martyrs made it possible for me to stand here today in front of you, by placing the regime that oppresses us in a precarious position before world public opinion. that is our power, based on the determination to exercise our rights to the last consequence. three years ago i was in cuba, today i'm here before you. yes, it has been a long road, but there is still much more to go until we achieve democracy in our homeland. it has been a journey both personally and collectively, and it is precisely these two perspectives that i am presenting today in this great house. i accept this award on behalf of all those who have made this journey possible in time and all spaces, because i am firmly convinced that the struggle we are fighting goes far beyond our own limitations as human beings. we want to bring back the sense of public service to politics, and that can only be achieved through the path we have chosen: nonviolence and human rights. we will continue our non-violent struggle, but we will not allow ourselves to be imposed by any kind of mandate, neither by the authorities, nor by a government that is not legitimate and not democratically elected by its citizens. we are confident of our victory because we have, as gandhi said, the satyagraha, the force of truth that makes us invincible even after we are killed. we are the change, because we represent the power of a people who are not resigned to live without the freedoms that you enjoy and exercise in this house. thank you for your support, thank you for recognizing our struggle. three years ago i was not there, but today i am here to tell you that cuba will be free, not by concession of its rulers, but by the will of its citizens, that is, the governed. god bless europe, god bless cuba, my country, and above all this world in which we live. thank you very much. this fist in the air signifies the strength of hope that there will be democracy in cuba one day. thank you, sir. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, guillermo, again for coming and fighting and for your beautiful speech. the european parliament will always stand with those who fight for freedom. thank you again and the nice lady for being here.
in writing. − the role of the european ombudsman is a very delicate one, requiring a great sense of responsibility, independence and transparency. its task is to investigate cases of maladministration by the eu institutions, including lack of transparency and refusal to provide information or documents. i congratulate emily o'reilly, even though she was not elected with my vote, because the candidate i supported was ms ria oomen-ruijten. but at this point, i congratulate her and i'm glad she's the first woman to hold this office. i wish you peace of mind at work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ever since the economic crisis struck the european economic and productive system, the council's response has been marked by cuts, austerity and new taxes imposed by certain member states at the explicit request of the european authorities. this has produced a fall in consumption and a downward spiral which has resulted in unemployed workers, closing companies and entrepreneurs committing suicide as sadly happens every week in italy. today, europe is beginning to reverse course, albeit belatedly. this measure provides for new funds and a programme entirely dedicated to growth and employment. the fight against youth unemployment becomes the top priority. the commission has proposed €6 billion, a youth guarantee that can be implemented immediately through a series of measures. in italy, as the first phase of the cohesion action plan, €1.4 billion was allocated to actions to promote education and employment. new educational activities for 65 300 students and specific initiatives for young people in southern italy. a further eur 620 million was allocated to new measures to support young people and those who are unemployed and not in education or training. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after long and difficult negotiations, we have finally reached agreement with the council and the irish presidency on the financial framework for the period 2014-2020. of course, more could and should be done, but although not perfect, i think we can be satisfied with the final agreement. i continue to believe that the only way out of the crisis is for the union to make a greater effort to promote growth, development, employment and the economy. the decisions taken at the european summit on youth employment show that europe is there when it wants to be and knows how to be there. we have made our case by getting an advance on the funds for the youth guarantee programme and i believe that we must make the programme effective and sustainable. finally, i agree with the choice to raise funds for the digital agenda, a choice which would result in the union receiving an increase of 5%, and at this point we must move from words to deeds and give concrete follow-up to our decisions.
in writing. - voting for the resolution does not mean voting for the mff regulations. this political agreement is not yet a vote on regulations which will be of fundamental importance for the future of european policies and the union itself. we said it and we say it again: this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction and operation of the railway network, including the purchase, hire and maintenance of infrastructure and installations for the construction and operation of the railway network, and the purchase, hire and repair of rolling stock, including the installation of rolling stock and the replacement of parts of rolling stock. in fact, they may have taken a step backward from previous years. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. two examples. the first is flexibility, which will allow for more room for commitment, and the second is the commitment of the member states to meet their commitments, otherwise we will have a europe with almost 60 billion in debt by 2020. the council must put aside its reservations and start a serious discussion which will soon lead to a change in the composition of the european budget. without these two corollaries, the risk that the next mff will become a risk for the union will be very high.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the political compromise on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 because i believe it is crucial to secure funding for a number of programmes such as erasmus, the eu's common agricultural policy for the next seven years. i also support a mandatory revision of the mff in 2016 as it allows the eu budget to have more flexibility. the revision also allows the new parliament and the new commission to readjust the eu budget in the light of the union's economic developments and new political priorities. the resolution adopted by parliament also introduces the need for the union budget to have its own resources in order to reduce the burden on member states' contributions. this resolution provides that from 2021 for the next mff, the union shall introduce a system of own resources to feed its own budget.
in writing. - the agreement reached is certainly not the best ever, but i doubt that anything more could be hoped for at this stage. parliament has succeeded in achieving important points, first of all the possibility of a mid-term review, the flexibility clause and a concrete commitment to combat one of the main scourges of the present day, namely youth unemployment. the initial outlook for agriculture, which has always been important to italy, was also much worse. the problem of the net contributions which our country will have to leave to brussels for the next seven years is, however, well known: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary impact of the new financial framework is not underestimated. it is a substantial sum, in the order of 25 billion, which will be lost in the game of give and take with the european union. i think that is a very high figure, too high, especially for the return we have from europe. the general atmosphere is one of distrust of this union, and i do not see how it could be otherwise. but the situation cannot be changed with a magic wand, and we are trying to improve it as much as possible, within the limits of the present conditions.
in writing. - during the irish presidency, europe, hard hit by the crisis, tried to balance its budgets by introducing new taxes and adopting austerity measures. now, finally, it has been decided to reverse course, putting at the top of the european agenda policies aimed at promoting growth and development, protecting the most vulnerable and promoting youth employment. i hope, therefore, in the interests of the citizens and particularly of the young people of europe, that this trend will continue in the coming months, bringing significant benefits and improvements to the budgets of the member states.
in writing. the un economic commission for europe is developing internationally harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties. the revision of this agreement is intended to simplify and speed up the voting procedure for these regulations. in parallel, it is proposed to amend decision 2000/125/ec on procedures for international agreements. i am voting in favour of the report because it is purely technical.
in writing. − it is important to allow the different needs of the players in the sector to coexist. europe's objective is to work towards removing technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles, while ensuring that these vehicles provide a high level of safety and environmental protection. rapid adoption of the legislation would allow a quicker response to the legal certainty demands of the industry. it is up to the policy to ensure a swift and effective process.
in writing. - i supported the recommendation on the amendment of draft council decision 97/836/ec with a view to the accession of the european community to the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) on the development of internationally harmonised requirements to eliminate technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles. it is of great importance to simplify and speed up the voting procedures for the adoption of unece acts and the conclusion of agreements between the union and international organisations in order to achieve international harmonisation of technical regulations relating to vehicles.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that such vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection, and agreeing with the rapporteur on the points discussed, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft decision amending council decision 97/836/ec on motor vehicles. as european legislation in this area is increasingly aligned with the regulatory requirements established by the united nations economic commission for europe, it would be desirable and appropriate to amend the decision to bring it into line with the new decision-making procedures introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union. simplifying and speeding up the voting procedure for unece regulations would strengthen the union's position. international regulatory harmonisation of technical regulations relating to vehicles would facilitate international trade in vehicles and meet the needs of operators. furthermore, encouraging the union's participation in the work of the unece would also mean giving it a significant role in areas such as safety and the environment, which are closely linked to the circulation of motor vehicles and are widely considered by the unece. the primary objective of ensuring that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection is to: this would help to develop the theme of health and safety culture as a field of competence not only in technical and professional terms but also and above all in social, behavioural and active citizenship terms.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for the text by mr vital moreira. the proposal aims to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on behalf of the european union on regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe, reducing delays in the adoption of these acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on unece regulations on behalf of the union, thus reducing delays in the adoption of these acts within the unece framework. this is important because the type approval system for vehicles in the european union is increasingly based on these regulations.
in writing. - having regard to the draft decision in line with the objectives of the common commercial policy in accordance with article 217 of the tfeu, and to the fact that the union's participation in the work of the unece contributes to developing and strengthening international harmonisation of technical regulations relating to vehicles and, consequently, to facilitating international trade in motor vehicles, and agreeing with the rapporteur in welcoming the draft, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. the proposal we have discussed concerns the mobilisation of sufficient resources to cover technical assistance at the initiative of the commission, the purpose of which is to finance the monitoring, information and advice needed by the member states in connection with the use, continuity and evaluation of the fund itself. the amount requested for 2013 will be used to finance a number of activities (monitoring, updating of the website, administrative and technical support).
in writing. − the commission is requesting in this report that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) be mobilised to finance administrative monitoring and information activities related to its implementation. the egf was established to provide support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of the current economic situation. the proposal is to mobilise eur 750 000. although there is a need to make better use of the egf, which often delays the granting of aid to workers who have lost their jobs, the amount of resources mentioned appears disproportionate. we must avoid unnecessary expenditure so that we can really help the redundant workers. that is why i am voting against the motion.
in writing. - i have always been in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund, when it is intended to help businesses and workers cope more easily, or if we wish less dramatically, with the effects of the crisis. however, this report calls for the mobilisation of technical assistance resources of eur 750 000: i think all the money should go to the real purpose of this fund, which is direct aid and support. the resources available to the european commission are not small and i do not think that it would have any difficulty in managing the assistance from this fund without this 'addition'. the money available is getting smaller and smaller, and so it should not be wasted in the crevices of bureaucracy, always ready to swallow money for purposes and purposes that are not well stated.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to help workers who are unemployed because of the major changes brought about by globalisation to reintegrate into the labour market. the implementation of these policies requires monitoring by the european commission. it is to ensure this monitoring that the european parliament has just voted a budget line dedicated to technical assistance. this effort is laudable and that is why i voted in favour of this technical assistance.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to cover technical assistance costs in order to monitor, inform and advise member states on the use of this fund which can provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade.
in writing. - i think it is my duty to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the introduction of a request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to cover technical assistance should be seen as a response to the needs of structural changes affecting trade flows worldwide and affecting workers. in a global context subject to a multiplicity of stimuli, the recognition of the right to work remains a priority and it is in support of it that action must be taken. investing in the technical equipment of a system such as the egf means ensuring better control strategies and dissemination and sharing of information, as well as increasing the level of skills of staff. i believe that the member states must commit themselves at national level to ensuring that workers enjoy the benefits of the egf and that states in difficulty should be supported and facilitated in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that olaf plays a key role in protecting the finances of the european institutions and i am therefore pleased that today's vote allows the new, agile and streamlined regulation to be able to operate immediately on the basis of the otherwise favourable positions expressed by the council last february. i think that the cooperation which has thus been established between the olaf bodies is correct. olaf needs independence, autonomy, authority and the impact of its action in combating fraud and all those criminal systems that must be fought effectively and with determination. the role of the european ombudsman will now be more important and we hope that the dedicated anti-fraud coordination service will be able to carry out its full role in sharing information and ensuring greater efficiency and functionality.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because, after several years of negotiation with the commission and the member states, we have finally arrived at a satisfactory conclusion for the new olaf regulation. with this text we have achieved great improvements in terms of increased investigative powers for olaf. in the reformed regulation, procedural guarantees and the protection of fundamental rights will be enhanced. it is also important to stress that olaf will now be better able to cooperate with third countries and international organisations.
in writing. − in march 2011, the commission put forward this amended proposal for a regulation on olaf's governance, to start the meetings necessary to reach an agreement. it is based on a more efficient investigation by the same anti-fraud office, distinguishing between internal and external investigations and sanctioning some key key points. first, it is stated that the institutions should not initiate, in parallel, investigations relating to matters which are already subject to olaf's scrutiny. it also guarantees the initiative of the directors-general, seeking to increase the level of protection of witnesses and reinforcing the principle that olaf should be able to access the institutions' databases. i am voting against the report as a whole, because i think it is perfect.
in writing. − olaf has always relied on the help of eu citizens, businesses and officials to fulfil its mission of protecting the financial interests of the european union and fighting fraud, corruption and other illegal activities, including those perpetrated within the european institutions. to improve the important work of this office, a review of the system is needed, with an improvement in the legislative framework. the new rules strengthen procedural safeguards and at the same time the rights of individuals are better protected. the role of the parliament is strengthened by the provision for an annual exchange of views between olaf and the european institutions.
in writing. − i supported the proposal to reform regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 on investigations by olaf, the european anti-fraud office, in order to improve efficiency and cooperation between the office and member states, eu institutions and international organisations.
in writing. − to restore consumer confidence in markets, information and data for investors must be made more transparent. the legislation has not so far evolved as rapidly as the services in this sector. ucits, which are a product widely used by retail investors, should be protected by a trusted brand and therefore clear rules should be laid down in this regard. the report provides greater protection for investors, including a focus on cases where there is a real risk of their impoverishment, and reduces speculation.
in writing. - the legislation on depositary accounts has remained the same since 1985 and consists of a set of general principles defining the duties of depositaries. the ucits directive refers to national legislation with regard to the details of those obligations. it is certainly a step forward, but the negotiation must continue. the issue of remuneration policies needs to be addressed: the econ report states that the variable component of the total salary of a fund manager must not exceed the fixed component of the salary and 50% of the variable remuneration and must be paid in assets, as laid down in the ucitis directive. the question of performance taxes, which are subject to changes in the taxation system, must also be examined.
in writing. − regulating undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities to promote a european market for investment funds helps to restore consumer confidence in financial markets. the report welcomes the commission's proposal to amend the existing legislation on investment companies and the remuneration of directors. i am pleased with the outcome of the vote, which was certainly not an easy text, on the fifth revision of the directive, which seeks to protect consumers in the context of financial investment regulation and suggests strengthening the existing regime as regards the delegation of custody, liability, remuneration and sanctions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the ets system is currently facing serious imbalances. the accumulation of surplus allowances is very significant and the trend is upwards. the price of carbon, going from 30 euros per tonne of co2 to about 7 euros per tonne of co2, is no longer sustainable for the trading system. we must unfortunately note that the whole system cannot function under such conditions and that it simply no longer provides sufficient incentives for sustainable scientific and technological innovation and new investment in low-carbon technologies. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept this amendment. we must accept this possibility for the sake of europe's future. however, i think there is one thing that needs to be taken more into account and that is concertation. since these are extraordinary measures, i believe it is essential to involve the sectors concerned.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal (backloading proposal) amending directive 2003/87/ec is aimed at clarifying the provisions on the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions. i would like to reiterate my opposition to the backloading measure for the temporary withdrawal of carbon dioxide emission allowances as proposed by the commission. the emissions trading scheme is working as a tool to reduce emissions in the most cost-effective way for industry: european industry will reduce its emissions by 21% by 2020, as set out by the european legislator. the low price of carbon dioxide is the consequence of a prolonged economic crisis, which has led to a collapse in industrial production in europe. therefore, backloading would have the effect of increasing the cost of energy in a period of contraction of the european economy and would not solve the structural deficiencies of the ets. in addition, it would create a precedent of regulator interference in a market instrument whose rules were set out in a 2008 agreement. i believe that the most appropriate way of restoring investor confidence is to define a regulatory framework by 2030 which, while respecting environmental commitments, ensures the competitiveness of european industries.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mr groote on the review of greenhouse gas auctions because i believe that the market should not be disturbed by such an invasive intervention. the ets is a real market, albeit an artificial one, and the commission should not tamper with the mechanisms and balances in place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. reducing the total number of allowances now means that the recovery of industry, which is essential to its recovery, will be aggravated by new burdens and that operators in the sector who had made or planned investments will be put in difficulty by suddenly changing the rules of the game.
in writing. − to finance climate policy, the commission argues that the market is not functioning properly and that, to correct this malfunction, the exchange prices for emission allowances for the years 2013-2015 should be raised with a carry-over to the two-year period 2018-2020 ('backloading'). since backloading is a form of hidden taxation on industry, since the fall in demand is caused primarily by the recession and since the eu energy package is proving to be a failure, i am voting against.
in writing. - this is the second time that parliament has spoken on backloading. the resolution was adopted by 344 votes to 311 with 46 abstentions. the vote on the motions for resolutions will take place at the next voting time. the ppe group voted against the backloading mechanism, as it believes that a structural review of the entire ets system is necessary and a priority, rather than a temporary measure that would risk destabilising the market. we also believe that it is a mistake to intervene with this manoeuvre on a mechanism which was born as a market mechanism. there is no environmental motivation, because the targets for reducing emissions, precisely because of the crisis, will be reached. we hope that the future negotiations will produce a more balanced position, taking account of the difficulties of the crisis and of parliament's vote.
in writing. - today, at the strasbourg plenary session, we welcomed the proposal to amend the directive on the timing of greenhouse gas auctions. we agree with mr groote, the rapporteur, that the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) is a key instrument for reducing industrial emissions, with cost efficiency as the main objective. unfortunately, the current economic crisis, coupled with a significant inflow of external emission reduction credits under the clean development mechanism, has led to a significant accumulation of surplus allowances. we believe that in order to avoid jeopardising the stability and predictability of the eu ets, the auction calendar should be adjusted so that it is held only once in the third trading period of the eu ets. we believe that this is a good solution to ensure the stability of the eu ets system until final structural measures are adopted.
in writing. − considering that the european union emissions trading system (eu ets) is a key instrument of the new european policy, i thought it appropriate not to support the rapporteur's work.
in writing. - this directive had been referred back to committee by the house. unfortunately, despite the strong criticism of the text, the envi committee has not made any significant changes. the european commission will be able to decide arbitrarily on the value of the co2 allowances, regardless of the market value. one difference is that this arbitrary power has been limited to 900 million shares. today more than ever energy-intensive industries tend to relocate where costs and constraints are lower. if this directive were not rejected by this house, we would risk accelerating the relocation of a large part of european industry. i believe that europe, which is going through this endless crisis, cannot afford to do that, and i shall therefore vote against.
in writing. − the 10% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions over the 2008/2012 period is not entirely attributable to the eu emissions trading system (eu/ets) set up by the eu to reduce emissions because it is affected by the sharp decline in industrial production. the decline has led to a decline in the price of carbon allowances and has helped create a build-up of surplus allowances as well as imbalances that limit companies' investments in low-emission technologies. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that a short-term strategy is needed to strengthen the system, by adjusting the timetable for auctioning allowances under directive 2003/87/ec, pending the adoption of long-term structural measures. the eu has always been the strongest supporter of measures to reduce emissions. it would be desirable for the eu/ets system to adopt more harmonised rules on monitoring and verification of emissions in order to enhance its reliability and credibility, and i believe that it is necessary to exclude small installations with low emissions. to foster sustainable development, more action will be needed, including and especially by emerging economies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few decades we have seen the spread of various epidemics at european level. at that time, coordination between the various european countries to deal with such emergencies was based on the voluntary principle and the inadequacy of this mechanism showed its limits. the creation of a legislative framework to strengthen the eu's capacity to respond to serious cross-border health threats has been a much-needed measure for years. i think that with this report the european parliament has done a fairly satisfactory job of filling this gap. however, on the other hand, i would like to point out that the amendment to article 23 has not been accepted. the question therefore remains whether the mechanism will be able to function quickly and effectively, since there will be no single strong coordinating body. i therefore support the commission and parliament in their willingness to make a public statement criticising the council for not accepting these measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on serious crossborder threats to health, aimed at protecting the health of all eu citizens. i agree that risk assessment and coordination measures in the case of communicable diseases should be extended to all threats to health, whether they are of biological, chemical or environmental origin. the report also introduces the possibility of declaring a european public health emergency, with the aim of speeding up the supply of medicines. this is of great significance, especially in view of recent reports of the spread of diseases that seemed to have been eradicated and are now reappearing in very virulent forms.
in writing. − this proposal aims to protect a wide range of citizens from crossborder health threats. in particular, risk assessment measures are extended, each member state is required to draw up a thorough national plan against health crises and the role of national security committees is to be strengthened. i vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the impressive numbers recorded during the 2009 avian pandemic and the 2010 volcanic cloud could not leave the assembly indifferent. i am reminded of the 14 000 cases of avian transmission in europe alone and the 482 000 worldwide. in order to overcome the shortcomings in the management of the above events, three aspects were emphasized: communication, cooperation and protection. the proposal reinforces the role of a coherent communication strategy at european level, in order to promote the timeliness and, above all, the effectiveness of the interventions. we must learn from the lessons of the past and avoid a repetition of situations which could endanger the health of european citizens.
in writing. − today, in plenary, we approved the commission's proposal to introduce measures to strengthen the eu's response capacity to prevent serious crossborder health threats. we believe it is essential to provide member states with the means, networks and structures to combat the threats posed by major disasters, especially given that in recent years they have been unprepared for emergencies. firstly, we believe that the scope of the rapid alert and response system should be extended to all serious crossborder threats to health; health crises caused by the misuse or marketing of defective medicines also fall into this category. we are also convinced that the importance of implementing a coherent and coordinated communication strategy in the event of a crisis must be stressed in order to facilitate the proper management of the situation and avoid serious economic consequences. finally, we would like to stress the need for cooperation between the members of the system and international organizations, in particular the world health organization (who), and also with third countries. finally, we would point out that the principles of confidentiality and retention of personal data must remain unchanged.
in writing. the recent health crises that have crossed the european union (pandemic of h1n1 influenza in 2009, volcanic ash in 2010, e. coli contamination in 2011) make us all aware of the need for european coordination in health security. this is the subject of this report, which outlines the lines of future european cooperation in the protection of the health of the citizens of the european union. risk assessment measures and coordination of national plans in different member states will be extended, as will cross-border emergency measures in the event of large-scale hospitalisation or when measures in one member state prove insufficient to control cross-border spread. the report envisages following up on these decisions by creating a 'european health emergency' to speed up the provision of medicines needed to combat health crises. all these new safety measures are beneficial to the citizens of the european union and to their health, and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's proposal for a decision on serious crossborder threats to health. the legislation provides for the strengthening of the union's capacity to deal with sudden threats such as pandemics, epidemics and viruses through instruments to facilitate cooperation between member states, such as collective purchases of vaccines and the possibility of declaring an emergency at community level.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the proposal for a european parliament decision on serious crossborder threats to health. following the events of the last health crises, the commission has presented a proposal for a decision providing for the establishment of a legislative framework, as well as means and structures, which can help coordinate the response and strengthen the eu's response capacity in the event of serious cross-border health threats. in order to ensure effective protection of citizens across europe, the preparedness of individual member states for health threats needs to include enhanced coordination of planning and response capacity, compared to the current voluntary approach. the text also proposes common temporary public health measures to create a safety net which would be of crucial importance in the event that the coordination of national responses proves insufficient in the face of an extreme emergency situation which could seriously jeopardise the protection of the union's population.
in writing. − health threats must be averted. today parliament voted a resolution establishing a european-wide rapid health alert system and a rule to facilitate cooperation between member states to buy vaccines. the measure adopted today will make it possible to declare a european emergency in the event of an epidemic or health crisis. this will increase the community's capacity to respond to cross-border health threats, such as the coronavirus or the 2009 and 2011 epidemics. this resolution will make access to vaccines more equitable, because they will be available at fairer prices. i can therefore only be satisfied that the legislation has been adopted. it represents a major step forward in the direction of greater protection of the health of european citizens.
in writing. the commission has presented a proposal for a decision providing the means and structures for effective protection of citizens across europe against a wide range of cross-border health threats. i am in favour of the proposal for a decision as it aims to increase the risk assessment and coordination measures currently applicable in the case of communicable diseases to all threats to health of biological, chemical or environmental origin and to strengthen the role of the health safety committee in view of better coordination of crisis management measures. i believe it is essential, in order to protect the patient, to recognise a european 'health emergency' with the aim of speeding up the supply of the necessary medicines. i believe that it is essential for the commission to adopt emergency crossborder measures in exceptional situations which cause deaths or hospitalisations on a large scale and in cases where member states' measures prove insufficient to control the spread of diseases from one country to another. the european centre for disease prevention and control should be supported as the official body for all information on the development of more or less contagious diseases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on serious crossborder threats to health, because i consider it essential to guarantee the right to health, especially in times of crisis. it is important that europe builds up its capacity to react, so that citizens are provided with the means and structures to deal with such situations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i believe, however, that in addition to promoting the work of the relevant internal bodies, such as the committee on health security, europe should be encouraged to cooperate with third countries and international organizations, first and foremost the world health organization. as regards health crises caused by the misuse of medicines or the marketing of defective medicines, it is desirable that everyone, both users and operators, appeal to the staff's common sense.
in writing. - the aim of mr pargneaux's report is to prevent crossborder threats to health by providing the european union with the means, networks and structures complementary to those already in place to protect its citizens in the face of such emergencies. in particular, i welcome the fact that today's vote will make it possible to coordinate the purchase of vaccines and medicines in europe in the event of a new pandemic, while keeping prices as low as possible: this is an important milestone especially for smaller countries that could not afford the exorbitant cost of vaccines during the last pandemics.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr podimata's report, which i congratulate on its excellent work. the financial transaction tax is expected to bring several tens of billions of euros into the eu's public coffers each year and help reduce speculative activities by making them more expensive and less profitable. i therefore fully support the revised proposal in the committee, which maintains the objective of combating evasion as well as capital transfers to other jurisdictions. i am therefore not concerned about the risks faced by banks and credit institutions who fear a flight of capital from the european union. the tax will not affect the financial sector itself, but its most dangerous parts such as automated high-frequency trading, that is, the financial sector which is at the origin of the serious economic crisis which is taking place and which must be decisively confronted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report which calls for the introduction of a tax on financial transactions for several reasons. the crisis is very severe and affects the most vulnerable, citizens, businesses and households. this is no longer possible or acceptable. it is time to redistribute the cost of the crisis in a fairer and more equitable way. the new system must ensure that the banks also bear the burden of the crisis. the introduction of taxation has several advantages: the union's tax revenue could increase to up to eur 57 billion; the taxation will not affect the financial sector as a whole, but will limit the most speculative activities. italy is one of the 11 member states which have already adopted this tax, the so-called tobin tax. i hope that this directive will soon be introduced at global level too, so as to tackle evasion and increase benefits and ensure greater stability in the financial market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, taxing high-risk financial speculation is essential to reducing distortions in the financial system. above all, it is right to say that the banks must also take up the crisis, just as citizens are demanding, especially as they are paying a very high price. the introduction of this tax will generate revenue of some eur 35 billion, which is a valuable additional resource to be allocated to measures for growth and employment. of course, its effectiveness is limited because not all the member states have joined. finally, some concern must be expressed about the application of this tax, albeit at a reduced rate, to government bonds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the tobin tax, the financial transaction tax, was a very courageous act designed to reverse the trend of taxation entirely concentrated on labour income and consumption. with this further act, which is now being voted on, after the previous votes in 2010 and 2011, the european union is demonstrating that it is able to overcome national egoisms, such as the british one, and is taking another act of courage that puts europe ahead of the rest of the world and constitutes a concrete act of anti-circumvention regulation of financial markets, which have enjoyed too much freedom and space for movement to the detriment of the economies of the states and their citizens. i voted in favour of this measure because it is a gesture of great ethical dignity towards a community of citizens who have been left at the mercy of the whims of the lords of financial transactions and i am convinced that acts of this kind will allow the real economy to reposition itself in relation to the speculative economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction taxation. indeed, as is well known, the 2008 financial crisis exposed serious shortcomings resulting from the long period of deregulation of financial services, with the result that the real economy was hit with serious consequences for growth, employment and public finances. the problems of the european union as a whole are still being faced. the european parliament has for the first time called for the introduction of a financial transaction tax, since the financial sector is not sufficiently taxed, since vat is not even envisaged, and because it would be appropriate to make a fairer contribution to the cost of the crisis. a progressive and socially fair tax and a fair instrument to shift the burden of the crisis from taxpayers to the financial sector.
in writing. - as members of the socialist and democratic group, we have repeatedly expressed our deep concern about the impact of the current economic crisis on the productive fabric of societies in the european countries. we have also denounced with equal force the error of believing that a simple austerity policy could be sufficient to prevent the financial crisis from causing a massive loss in productivity, jobs and, consequently, as reiterated by the istat, in the purchasing power of households. the outcome of the negotiations for the next multiannual budget of the european union 2014-2020 has shown that it is impossible to have a budget that fully meets the union's future challenges: the council has not in the least intended to call into question the level of appropriations. to reverse this trend, the community budget must change its composition. in view of the debate which will be opened on own resources, this is an opportunity to stress the extraordinary importance of the introduction of the financial transition tax, both as a means of generating a significant revenue for the community budget and as a concrete demonstration of the political will to involve the financial sector, which has contributed most to the recovery of the crisis by means of dangerous speculative operations, in the recovery of the crisis.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. since this measure strengthens the single market, ensures that the financial sector contributes to the costs of the crisis, makes the market more efficient and introduces new sources of income, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - there are sound technical reasons for introducing a financial transaction tax. the 2008 crisis clearly showed that investors took too much risk, partly because financial products did not incorporate a correct assessment of their riskiness. securitisations and increasingly diversified portfolios had fed the illusion that risk had disappeared, generating growth in the production and trading of insurance derivatives. the cost of this glaring blunder, however, has not been borne only by investors but also by customers, employees, shareholders, ordinary citizens and even by all those financial institutions that had stayed away from subprime mortgages. the negative effects of financial activity and its repercussions on third parties are a fairly faithful reflection of the manual example of the factory which, with its waste, also ends up polluting the stream that flows nearby. a damage to the inhabitants of the neighboring village that has nothing to do with the factory. the podimata report is the result of rather complicated negotiations based on a series of compromises. finally, i would like to reiterate the importance of the question of financial taxation being placed as a priority on the agendas of the g8 and the g20.
in writing. this consultation of the european parliament on the taxation of financial transactions is really very important for all citizens of the european union and its implementation should be taken seriously. this tax is important in particular to make the financial sector, which is largely responsible for the crisis, bear the cost of the crisis, to discourage purely speculative operations, which do not benefit the real economy, and to avoid future crises. this tax does not affect small and medium-sized enterprises when they decide to raise funds on the financial markets, nor does it affect member states when they borrow on the financial markets. the text also reaffirms the need for eu representatives to promote a financial transaction tax at the global level, and more particularly at the g8 and g20. all these reasons make me vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i supported the proposal for a council directive on a financial transaction tax (ftt) which covers a range of financial instruments from shares to bonds and derivatives and minimises the risk of circumvention and evasion.
in writing. − to reduce speculation and protect european citizens, this is the main objective of the report on the financial transaction tax. a clear sign of the european parliament's intention to regulate the financial sector by preventing the speculative activities that are at the origin of the economic crisis. the uniform application of the tax must be ensured by preventing any form of fragmentation of the internal market, and it is therefore necessary to harmonise the rates at european level and to provide for higher rates for financial transactions which are carried out outside unregulated markets. in addition, the revenue from the tax will have to be used to the benefit of the eu budget, where it could be used more productively. this revenue should not replace national contributions but could simply be added to them in order to increase the eu's spending capacity. however, it is necessary to provide for exemptions for non-speculative financial activities which fulfil a social function and support the real economy.
in writing. the commission has also proposed a new system of taxation for the financial services sector. the text confirms the tax rates proposed by the commission, namely 0.1% on transactions in shares and bonds and 0.01% on derivatives, and introduces clauses to make tax avoidance potentially much more onerous than the actual payment of tax. the payment of the financial transaction tax is linked to the acquisition of legal ownership rights, so that the purchaser of a security will not have actually owned it until he pays the financial transaction tax. i believe that this tax is the best way to help the sector emerge from the crisis and get back to the good work of serving the real economy. i therefore believe that what has been achieved in parliament today is a very good result and i hope that we will actually make a step forward in the direction of re-evaluating the european economy.
in writing. − the need for the financial sector to make a fair and essential contribution to covering the costs of the economic crisis is becoming more and more pressing. the financial system must be compact, serving the real economy and, above all, the common good. the financial transaction tax (ftt) is an effective instrument in this respect, because while it is a means of combating speculation, it also becomes a productive source of income that can be used to promote social and development policies, or for example environmental policies, which today require special support. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive implementing enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax. the fact that the itf is a product of enhanced cooperation between some of the member states should not be overlooked, in the sense that it would be desirable to ensure a harmonisation and efficiency of the collection mechanisms to avoid that the shortcomings of one state affect another, thus jeopardising the good outcome of the tax.
in writing. - it is not the first time that the european parliament has voted on this subject and mr podimata's report is the result of long and difficult negotiations and a series of compromises. it is clear that the financial transaction tax can generate significant new revenue at a time of great effort to consolidate public finances and can act as a buffer for purely speculative transactions, thus helping to stabilise financial markets and reorient the sector towards productive long-term investment.
in writing. - another step forward for the union! the adoption of our currency by latvia is a historic step and an important incentive for all the countries of central and eastern europe, and i am thinking in particular of the most important country in the region, poland. many years have passed since the soviet invasion and the process of russification that put the proud national identity of the latvian people at risk. i like to recall latvia's path towards europe and the west. on 20 september 2003, 66.9% of latvians voted in a referendum to join the european union. latvia joined the european union on 1 may 2004 and on 29 march 2004 it also became a member of nato. it is clear, with regard to the requirements for adopting the euro, that latvia must continue to contain its deficit, but i would remind you that it enjoys low inflation and, more generally, that the european institutions must accompany the recovery of the finances of european countries without going beyond the limits of rigorous practices which are often not only self-serving but also counterproductive for the economy of this or that state. i would like to conclude by wishing the euro to be a great opportunity for the latvian people.
in writing. − latvia is also expected to join the euro on 1 january 2014. the first question that comes to mind is whether latvian politicians and leaders have thought this choice through, since it is quite obvious that the countries with the single currency are having a much harder time than other european partners to grow and emerge from the crisis. i would also like to know whether the so-called convergence criteria have been fully respected, which i find extremely difficult: the truth is slowly coming to light, and we are finding that it is probably not only greece at the time of its entry into the euro that did not meet these criteria, but that other countries, italy first of all, were in the same situation. what may seem like a success for latvia today may soon turn out to be a real boomerang: the adoption of the single currency is in fact a kind of 'force-shirt', which severely limits the scope for action of a state, which, if it is hit by a shock, has much more difficulty in recovering, since it can no longer use monetary policy as a 'weapon', for example. i hope therefore that riga and brussels have given this choice a lot of thought.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for a council decision to take latvia into the euro area from 1 january 2014. although the latvian government still has much to do to remedy labour market problems, poverty and widespread inequalities, it should be acknowledged that it has made a great effort to implement measures to overcome the financial crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the adoption of the euro by latvia. latvia appears to meet all the necessary criteria for membership of the monetary policy of the union. it is a country that has shown that it can manage and resolve the effects of a severe economic crisis by putting in place a firm and austere policy. the stability of the financial sector has enabled latvia to achieve a high level of sustainable economic convergence with the euro area. however, the problem of convincing the latvian citizens of the benefits of adopting the single currency remains, a problem that can be solved by launching a pro-euro government campaign. if the greatest fear is that of price increases, it would be good to point out that where this has occurred, other concomitant situations have played a negative role. on the contrary, the adoption of the euro would lead to an increase in economic development, because it would attract more foreign investment. finally, a further challenge for europe would be to encourage employment in the latvian state so that the production of wealth represents a national resource to draw on for a more active participation in the economic dynamics of the community market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year in europe 300 000 people are seriously injured in road accidents. in 2012, the deaths caused were over 28 thousand, most of the victims: pedestrians, motorcyclists and the elderly, but also many children; more than 800 000 children under the age of 15 are killed on european roads and 100 000 are injured, with serious injuries often resulting in permanent disability. it is a very serious situation and therefore the implementation of legislative measures, of concrete objectives to reduce the number of victims and serious injuries caused by road accidents is absolutely necessary and can no longer be postponed.
in writing. - italy revised its road safety law two years ago, tightening penalties, introducing stringent rules and confirming reward mechanisms for driving licence holders. the european union is taking a step forward to protect the lives of italian citizens more and better. we must know, however, that the phenomenon of death on our roads is decreasing. this is a positive trend which deserves to be emphasized. what do you mean, "what"? firstly, through checks, then through the promotion of safer and safer transport, then through the improvement of the european infrastructure system and finally through road education for european citizens, a path of education that must begin early, preferably as early as 14 years of age.
in writing. − in 2011, the last year for which we have complete data, more than 30 000 people died in road accidents in the european union, and about 1.5 million were reported injured, 250 000 of them seriously. it sounds like a war bill, and it is a war that must be fought to minimize accidents on our roads. so we welcome a european strategy in this area, starting with prevention, moving on to the safety of transport vehicles and finally to the rules on medical aid: it is a 360-degree action, which we hope will bear fruit. the target is ambitious: to reduce accidents by 40% by 2020. i hope very much that this target will be reached and even exceeded as soon as possible. the damage caused by accidents often remains over time, leading to disabilities of varying degrees. in addition, the socioeconomic cost of road accidents is estimated at 2% of gdp each year, or billions of euros. life, however, has no price, and that is why we must do everything possible to eliminate this plague that has created so much grief and suffering over the years.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, although i do not fully agree with the whole of the report, i believe that, on the whole, it does add value to the subject under discussion, which is very sensitive. i therefore think it appropriate to support the whole of what has been discussed in this house today.
in writing. − the high rate of road accidents in the european union raises the need and the duty to act towards a policy of improvement in the field of road safety. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on road safety. different priorities need to be met to avoid collision impacts and thus increase road user safety and reduce serious injuries. firstly, i agree that it is appropriate to introduce a common eu definition of serious road traffic injuries in order to make it easier to collect data and to tackle the problem at community level. better implementation of existing rules and related measures is an essential step in this direction and in this respect individual member states are invited to make a solid and sustained commitment by monitoring efficient practices for the assessment and rehabilitation of road traffic offenders. information certainly educates to safety by protecting road users, especially the most vulnerable. i agree with the need to strengthen the first aid and emergency services, as well as post-accident assistance, for which the union is called upon to provide its support, especially in financial terms.
in writing. - the number of citizens killed or seriously injured in accidents on europe's roads each year is incredibly high. this requires more effective and immediate implementation of a number of existing rules and measures to increase safety for european citizens and to reduce deaths and serious injuries. member states must therefore commit themselves to reach, or at least to come close to, the seemingly ambitious target of reducing the number of road accidents by 40% for the period 2014-2020.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish to say that i voted against the resolution on the hungarian question and the only consolation i can take from it is that the whole epp group has taken this position as its official position. on the other hand, a resolution which goes so far as to challenge a law protecting the family as almost sectarian cannot be supported by a party such as the epp, which has shown itself to be respectful of hungarian autonomy and respectful of a government which protects and respects the family first and foremost.
in writing. − i strongly support this report because the situation in hungary has deteriorated beyond all expectations and i believe that we have a responsibility to react to this situation. the hungarian constitution has been amended four times in the last 15 months. the latest in particular, the ‘fourth amendment to the fundamental law’, undermines the rule of law, the protection of human rights and the stability of the constitution. i consider that any attempt to scorn or weaken the eu’s common values affects the whole process of european economic, social and political integration. furthermore, the new hungarian constitution is weakening the eu’s credibility in its external action. for these reasons, with this text we clearly ask hungary to realign itself with european principles of democracy and rule of law. specifically, we call on the hungarian government to remove from the constitution those provisions already declared unconstitutional by the constitutional court and to ensure the widest possible participation of all parliamentary parties in the constitutional process.
in writing. - this report is an attempt to influence public opinion by condemning the hungarian constitutional reform, especially as regards changes in the judiciary and information systems. i do not share the pressure on a coalition which represents two thirds of the people who elected it, nor the proposals to cancel the reform altogether, so i am voting against the proposal.
in writing. - hungary is a free country. this simple and absolute truth has been overshadowed over time by misinformation, superficiality, prejudice and an absolutist conception of the european union. in budapest - contrary to what is reported in much of the european press - there is no democratic problem, neither for the media system, nor for the rights of minorities who even enjoy a right to a platform in the hungarian parliament. the report in question is tainted with ideological oversight and has a purely political purpose. the undeniable fact, however, is that viktor orban may not be liked by the european socialist party but he is liked by the hungarians. i would add that in these years things have been written and said which offend but the hungarians, who had the courage to rebel against soviet oppression by dreaming of a socialism with a human face and a gradual return to democracy. it is paradoxical that decisions such as the one to amend and update the constitution - a choice made on the day after the fall of the respective dictatorships by germans, italians, spaniards, to name just a few examples - are criticized and opposed if made by hungarians who have a legitimate desire to turn the page on fifty years of communist rule. for these and many other reasons, this is a report to be rejected.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the situation of fundamental rights and on the rules and practices in hungary. in 2010, following the general elections in hungary, the governing majority won more than two thirds of the seats in parliament and was therefore able to quickly launch an intensive legislative activity aimed at transforming the entire constitutional structure of the country and thus radically changing the institutional and legal framework as well as several fundamental aspects of not only public but also private life. the extensive and systematic constitutional and institutional reforms carried out by the hungarian government in an exceptionally short time frame are unprecedented and as a result many european institutions and organisations have felt it necessary to assess the impact of some of the reforms introduced. the commission, in exercising its responsibility for monitoring the application of eu law, must examine cases of possible serious breaches of union values by a member state; in the case of hungary, the systemic tendency to change the constitutional and legal framework several times in a very short period of time, and the content of these changes, are incompatible with the values set out in article 2 teu.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution to express my solidarity with the populations of the countries that were recently victims of floods. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to deal with major national disasters and to provide financial assistance to disaster-stricken states. with this text we are calling on the commission to draft a simplified eusf regulation which will enable down payments to be made as soon as the member state affected has applied for assistance. it is also important to emphasise that soil degradation, driven by inappropriate agricultural and forestry practices, damages the soil’s capacity to continue to perform in full its crucial function of preventing natural disasters. for this reason, we call on the commission and the member states to pay particular attention to reviewing sustainable land use policies and best practices to increase the capacity of flood-control and drainage systems.
in writing. - i would first like to express my sympathy with the people affected by the floods which have struck central and eastern europe in recent months. my country is, unfortunately, well aware of the human cost of a natural disaster. the earthquakes that have struck the regions of abruzzo and emilia romagna in recent years have shown this clearly. it is precisely on such occasions that the solidarity fund has proved to be a key lever for reconstruction and the resumption of economic activities. i am therefore firmly convinced that it is in the common interest that this fund should continue to operate effectively. to that end, the procedures governing the solidarity fund should be further simplified and accelerated. only in this way can the european union break away from the stereotype of an exclusively bureaucratic apparatus and show itself ready to respond effectively to the needs of its citizens in times of greatest difficulty.
in writing. - this has been a very intense discussion. on the whole, however, i find the report to have many positive aspects and i therefore think it appropriate to approve it.
in writing. - parliament voted today to ensure that eu emergency funds are sent to disaster victims more quickly and efficiently. in recent years, the frequency, severity, complexity and impact of natural and man-made disasters in europe have increased. for this reason, i believe it is important to release the financial assistance from the european solidarity fund to the countries affected by this natural disaster and to encourage cooperation between the member states, especially in the event of disasters such as floods. it is with this in mind that i support the resolution adopted today, which aims to simplify the rules governing funding so that the crossborder contributions offered reach the victims in the shortest possible time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on floods in europe because the natural disasters which now strike european countries with a certain frequency have increased considerably and continue to cause considerable damage and casualties. in order to deal with such situations in the best possible way, i believe that joint measures must be put in place to prevent such phenomena through broadly conceived strategies, which therefore involve a plurality of states and make it possible to assess risk management in a shared way. i think it is important to have territorial task forces studying the change in the soil and carrying out controls in order to safeguard the territory from continuous changes made by man. local authorities will have to demonstrate greater sensitivity through prevention policies for soil protection, also drawing on best practices used in other countries. i believe that more financial assistance is needed, promptly and adequately, to deal with emergencies in the best possible way and immediately, and that it would be useful to allocate more funds to disaster prevention and to the creation of projects that can mitigate the effects of disasters in areas considered at risk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to separate traditional banks from commercial banks in the interests of transparency and, above all, to avoid speculative drift. in the light of the monte dei paschi case in siena, i have repeatedly stressed that there should be zero tolerance for high-risk financial transactions without guarantees of transparency and accountability. above all, it is right to remember that it can no longer be the taxpayers, the citizens, who pay the cost of debts or the bankruptcies of banks. the legitimacy of all financial transactions must also be checked, also in accordance with the recommendations of the european banking authority, in order to protect the economy, citizens and businesses so that banks can rebuild confidence, so that the economy and development can return to a virtuous link with banks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mrs mccarthy on banking reform because i share parliament's commitment to act to ensure that europe builds as soon as possible the banking union that our economy needs. i share the call for the principles of reducing complexity, improving competition, improving corporate governance, creating a responsible remuneration system. i appreciate steps like this that can lead to a change in banking culture.
in writing. the european banking sector has a number of institutions that are considered 'too big to fail' and it is on these that the econ committee has focused its attention. at the end of 2012, the liikanen report highlighted that some causes of the crisis are also due to the connections that have been created between banks. the commission is proposing a reform to avoid spending public money to subsidize credit institutions and to increase the protection of retail customers, while also promoting access to credit for smes. since the aim is to reduce the size and complexity of banks, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the objective of using the structure of the banking system to make it both more solid and secure, but also more flexible and able to respond to the needs of the economy and society as a whole, must be pursued with determination. we must wait until autumn to see what legislative proposals the commission will put forward. certainly some key words deserve to be repeated. it's simplification and competition. i would add to these the key issue of access to credit. we must build a near future in which a european entrepreneur can enter a bank with confidence and hope, and obtain trust and resources from the credit institution. today, unfortunately, that is not the case. it's not easy. the european institutions, and first and foremost, if i may say so, the european central bank, can work effectively in this direction by encouraging a policy of confidence and the opening up of credit lines.
in writing. the report by arlene mccarthy incorporates the recommendations of the liikanen group, which was convened to decide whether further structural measures should be taken to prevent further financial and economic crises. the group's conclusions are reproduced in this report and they are in favour of a separation of investment banks and deposit banks for savers. responsible banking practices must be promoted, leading to fewer economic shocks and fewer dangers for the real economy, which is the only one that is perceptible and useful to citizens and democracy. i therefore gave my vote in favour.
in writing. - i supported the proposal to reform the structure of the eu banking sector as a sector with a strong impact on the conditions of the european economy. the recent financial crises have shown how crucial it is to reform the structure of the banking system to make it more stable, efficient, secure and better integrated with the real economy and consumers.
in writing. - the separation of banking activities between risky and retail activities is undoubtedly a good way of simplifying the banking structure by making it more transparent. after the financial crisis it was clear that the european banking sector as a whole needed to be reformed, so banking reform was indispensable and necessary. we must be ambitious and aim for a true banking union. only then can we finally have a more stable and secure credit system which can restore the transmission mechanism between banks and the real economy. the banking union is therefore the turning point for the resumption of growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the structure of the banking sector in the european union because it is necessary to remedy the shortcomings in the current system, which in many countries do not allow the economy to unlock in favour of development policies, paralysing our businesses and our internal markets. solutions must be found to reduce the likelihood of national bank failures and the catastrophic impact on savers and businesses. structural reform of the banking system is necessary to safeguard citizens and protect the economic functions of enterprises. the banking system today appears to be too complex and involved in a multiplicity of fields which take it away from its primary function and i believe that a separation of the risk activities of banks from the collection of deposits and the granting of loans is necessary. the banking structures must be simplified, making them simpler and more transparent, and the supervisory systems must be strengthened to prevent crisis situations from burdening customers and governments. it is desirable to create a new, stable and secure circuit which meets the needs of savers and enables them to obtain credit to finance their activities.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it denounces the continuing problems with lack of standardised reporting of fraud by member states, despite their obligation under the treaty to share responsibility with the commission for fighting fraud in eu expenditure and revenue. in addition i think that is important to emphasise the need to intensify further the fight against customs-related fraud and that, given the fact that fraud is increasingly being committed across international borders, a stronger legal framework, with clear commitments from the partner countries, is needed. regarding olaf, i welcome the initiative to reform it, especially in order to strengthen its capacity to tackle fraud in the eu’s external policy dimension.
in writing. − the commission report com ((2012) 0408) specifies that the commission itself and the member states are obliged to fight against fraud and other illegal activities, protecting the eu's financial interests at the level of collection and expenditure. however, eu countries define the same offences differently and do not all use the same statistical criteria. it is therefore difficult to assess fraud uniformly. part of the report then presents the allegation that olaf initiated investigative actions which were atypical compared to those provided for under articles 3 and 4 of regulation (ec) no 1073/1999. given all these considerations, i am voting against the proposal.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to express my appreciation for the work done by mr vaughan. secondly, i would like to call on the commission to draw up an annual report in which the data on irregularities/fraud can be compared by means of a balanced analysis of the different anti-fraud systems in place in the member states (and therefore of the different capacity to detect fraud) and of the different methods/timing for sending data on the cases of irregularities/fraud detected. why do i think this annual report is appropriate? because i believe it will make it possible to reject any possible and eventual attempt to return to the 'baseline of old 'commonplaces', according to which, paradoxically, a greater number of cases of irregularity/fraud detected and reported honestly by an ms than others, can lead not only to a negative label specifically against that member state, but also to further and more burdensome and unfair consequences such as reduction of funding and penalties.
in writing. − the fight against fraud must be conducted jointly, both at national and european level; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the defence of the financial interests of the union is in the interest of all of us, because it is our money, which is taken from the whole community in the event of fraudulent behaviour. the customs controls must therefore be improved, and it must be said that, for once at least, italy is at the forefront in this field, and it is rather the ports of northern europe that often carry out approximate and complacent controls. agriculture and cohesion policy, or the regional structural funds, are other areas where massive action is needed, because they are unfortunately subject to frequent cases of fraud. in addition to being an important economic battle, the fight against fraud is also a matter of civilization, since the 'cheating mentality' has no place in italy or europe.
in writing. the control of public expenditure and the fight against fraud are essential to obtain the confidence of citizens and sound and fair accounts for the proper implementation of the european union's aid programmes. the report notes the significant decrease in fraud in recent times. mr vaughan asks the supervisory bodies in each member state to put in place stricter measures to avoid lax examinations of files, especially in this time of crisis where every euro spent must be spent sparingly and rigorously. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the protection of the european union's financial interests against fraud. fraudulent irregularities have a significant impact on the eu's finances and it is therefore essential to tackle this type of crime through measures to coordinate the collection of revenue between member states and customs, and to strengthen the efficiency of olaf.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion on the report on the annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests because the financial impact of fraud and illegal activities is also a concern for the market and the community budget. the fight against fraud must be one of the union's priorities because it damages the whole system and in this time of economic crisis it is necessary to ensure that eu funds invested in the member states are well spent and entrusted to those who really need them. despite the progress made in recent years in the recovery of amounts wrongly received, work is needed to ensure that control systems are increasingly effective and that they are assessed on their results. to facilitate this task, each state will have to commit itself to providing detailed information on internal controls, so as to allow for more accurate geographical analyses and intervention manoeuvres. in the meantime, member states will have to try to recover unduly collected sums and it would be desirable to make a greater effort to streamline judicial processes by speeding up recovery. it is also necessary to define standard assessment criteria in all member states, coupled with appropriate penalties for offenders, and to provide greater support to the areas most affected by the phenomenon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague on the integrated internal control framework because i believe that the internal audit model used in the eu needs to be optimised. the various partners in the process need to work together to ensure that procedures are carried out properly, involving in particular the member states which manage most of the funds in the context of day-to-day management. it will be necessary to work on common principles by providing the necessary guarantees on the regularity of transactions at each level of budget implementation and it may be necessary to use independent audit bodies to provide further guarantees on transactions. in collaboration with the member states, a model for national management declarations should be defined in order to better analyse the strengths and weaknesses of control systems, so as to assess the conformity of the results of the beneficiaries. i therefore believe that a broad collaboration of all stakeholders is needed to make further progress in this area and to maximise the benefits of union policies, and that it might also be useful to launch 'pilot projects' to evaluate the results of the various controls.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the closure of the greek national broadcaster (2013/2684 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in solidarity with the workers who lose their jobs, but there is nowhere in the text that if the information is not from a public television station it is not correct information. i think the european commission should look after its own affairs, the troika only leads to the ditch and saves no one, so god forbid we should have troika. but i am thinking of rai, the italian public television, which is a reservoir of friends, cousins, brothers-in-law, acquaintances, references of all kinds, 13 000 employees, a debt of i do not know how many hundreds of millions of euros, a public television licence fee of 113 euros per head. does anyone in this house think that freedom of information in italy is guaranteed by the public television station rai? i don't know how things worked in greece, but a little more privacy, a little more energy, a little more freshness and a little less recommendation on public television i think would be good. i hope that the german public television will be reopened, that rai will be closed down instead, or at least that it will be sold to private individuals who will certainly provide more serious and more important information for the italian people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we were surprised, it is hard to deny, by the decision of the greek government to close down the national public television. when a television station is closed, a space of information is closed, but above all a space of freedom, and i am already worried when the greek national symphony orchestra is closed, let alone when the public television is closed. the concern is heightened when it is understood that one of the causes of the closure is the overstaffing of employees, an excessive number that in a time of crisis such as the one greece is going through is obviously impossible to sustain. but it is also true that the government has made it clear that it has no intention of giving up public service and that it wants to make television better in quality and efficiency. the minister responsible for the settlement of this matter has also been appointed precisely because of the importance attached to this aspect. there is therefore no desire to undermine democracy, so much so that in the coming weeks tv will resume activities in which many workers will obviously be rewarded. what will be more important is to avoid the mismanagement and waste of public funds that has occurred so far. i also think that the greek government has the skills and the capacity to intervene without undue pressure, especially when behind a debate like this one wants to give the impression that there is a democratic problem in greece that does not exist; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it's in egypt, where there's a problem. as we speak, the army tanks have surrounded the headquarters of the national television, a coup d'état has begun, yet another coup d'état and yet another egyptian revolution, that is the real emergency. in greece we just have to accompany the government to do it quickly and do it well.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am very surprised at the commission's inertia and silence. the samaras decision was a deliberate decision against a public service and it is a serious act. samaras considered greek television to be the same as any other household appliance company because none of us - as he heard - questions the need to reorganise or reform that broadcaster or service, but it could be done without interrupting broadcasting, there are procedures and experiences throughout europe that confirm this. the decision taken has therefore a political value which you cannot ignore. it is a negative political value, it sends a message to the greek people, it violates a fundamental right of the greek people, because when freedom of information and pluralism are restricted, the rights of individuals and communities are called into question. for this reason, the situation that has arisen is unacceptable and even more unacceptable is the fact that after a court ruling there has been no reactivation of the service. you must take action to restore normal conditions in which the problem of quality of service and reorganisation can be tackled effectively. this is only affecting workers on the one hand and citizens' rights on the other, and that is not good.
the agenda shall include a follow-up to the discussion on the statements by the council and the commission on the closure of the greek national television broadcaster (2013/2684 ((rsp)). interventions on request - "catch the eye"
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the debate we have been talking about the right of the citizen to be informed and the right of the journalist to freedom of expression. if we are talking about the rule of law in the european union, all the values and principles must be protected and guaranteed in the reforms. for once i agree with mr cohn-bendit that we need reform, but a comprehensive reform which ensures the rights of all, consumers and traders. unfortunately, too many member states still have rules that are too strict and not re-educational for defamation offences or even for those that are not controlled. i also have an italian case in mind. in 59 days, the prison doors will open for director giorgio mulé, guilty, you know, of neglect of control. the prison does not respect the right of citizens to be adequately informed, but above all it does not protect the honour of those involved. we reform and innovate conclusion yes to strong sanctions that include radiation if the defamation is certain and proven, no to any punitive measure that limits the freedom of the press.
yes, you are right, it was actually a rather undignified definition. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the nsa surveillance programme in the united states, intelligence services in several member states and impact on eu citizens' privacy (2013/2682 ((rsp)).
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing this question to mr aguilar, but i could have also addressed it to mr jadot and mr vergiat and many others. i'm making a proper premise so i won't be misunderstood. i am also obviously outraged and therefore share the outrage at this massive data collection, but i ask myself: why do i not see the same anger, the same irritation towards certain member states whose judicial authorities make excessive and i would even dare to say undue use of telephone and environmental interception, which also violates the privacy of citizens, entering with open feet into what is the sphere of individual freedom?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone has always spied on everyone, in war and in peace, and intelligence is not just political but also military, industrial, scientific, technological and economic. secret services have always operated outside the law and are effective if what they do is successful and especially if it remains secret. that's not the case. but intelligence is necessary beyond good feelings and good will because it serves the national interest and protects the citizen. president obama, the idol of the progressives, promised years ago to close guantanamo, but guantanamo is still there, why? but beyond the demands for a proper and formal apology from the united states, it would be absurd in this case to compromise the relationship with the united states at a time of terrorist threats and international crises. the real outrage should be directed at the misuse of the data obtained from interception, not at the espionage activity which, if done well and for good purposes, should be lawful. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in vienna has little to do with the activities of the secret services, it is a decision by the states to prevent the overflight of their territory. in any case, if there was in this case in vienna an intervention of the secret services it would be an inappropriate and unfortunate intervention because it did not achieve the result, but one cannot deny the intelligence activity that has always existed in the world, in all countries also bilaterally there was a reference to france, but i could refer to the espionage activities between britain and the united states, between russia and america, every country in the world has carried out this type of activity. it's not pleasant, but we don't live in a world of miraculous, peaceful ideas where everyone loves each other. this is the world, and realism must adapt to this kind of world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have often spoken of the european union's difficulty in speaking with one credible and reliable voice abroad, and it is probably time that this voice - commissioner reding - was finally heard by the european union. prism is indeed a case of deep and unacceptable espionage, and the european citizens rightly demand clear and decisive measures of cleanliness and transparency, which parliament and the institutions must take up immediately. the us has systematically entered our homes, the homes of european union citizens, has entered embassies, the most important institutions, collecting relevant data that concerns the most intimate sphere of individual freedoms. we therefore demand an answer, and we demand it swiftly and decisively. we ask, mr president, that it would be wrong, for example, to block the negotiations which the european union has just started with the united states of america on free trade, in which case we would end up sanctioning the citizens of the european union twice as much as our own economy. i conclude, mr president, by saying that we, mrs reding, should instead be involved in the negotiations with the usa on the exchange of information for the purpose of combating terrorism, in order to have a high standard of protection for european citizens in this case.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am really amazed at all this sympathy for snowden, who is a gentleman who has agreed to be a snitch, not an ikea salesman. so he's a person who betrayed his country and the united states has every right to want to prosecute him. he said he did it in the name of democracy and where did he seek political asylum? in china and russia, do these countries look like model democracies to you, i ask? and who would benefit if the agreements between the united states and europe failed? these countries. do you not understand? is your ideology making you so blind?
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank andrew duff not only for his presentation today but for over the years helping to build up a real european space. he is absolutely right: the voters’ participation in the european elections has steadily decreased from 62% in 1979 to 43% in 2009, but we see this happening not only in the european elections, it happens in the same way in national and regional polls. hence i believe that, if we start to think about how we can ameliorate participation in the european elections, it will help at the same time to ameliorate the participation in the national and regional polls. the commission has made a continued effort to encourage political participation and to improve citizens’ awareness of their rights in the eu. i remind you of the first eu citizenship report in 2010 and the 25 very concrete proposals which i put on the table then. the good news is that the 25 proposals have been implemented or are in the process of being implemented. the second citizenship report, in may 2013, has taken stock of the many proposals which we received from the citizens themselves, be it in the dialogues which we lead in the different member states, in the consultations which we have made on the internet, or be it by taking into account the essence of the more than one million requests the european union receives every year. so there we put on the table another 12 proposals to be completed before the end of this mandate and one of these proposals is to help citizens have a stronger awareness of their electoral right, particularly in the case of first-time voters. after the european year of citizens and having taken into account the experiences learnt during this year, the commission will produce a handbook presenting the most important eu rights of citizens in clear and simple language. furthermore, we will seek to strengthen and develop the european public space. what have we seen in our eurobarometers? for instance, eight out of ten citizens tell us they would be more motivated to vote if they knew more about the european union. there is very often a deficit of knowledge about what the rights and possibilities are and, by the way, what this house does for european citizens. i was very much astonished during the citizens’ dialogues to learn of citizens’ lack of knowledge about the effects and powers of the european parliament. other eurobarometers show that seven out of ten citizens believe that if they knew more about their national party and its affiliation to its umbrella european parties, that would greatly help, and six out of ten think that having party candidates for the commission president and a single voting day would also help the turnout. on the basis of this, on 12 march this year the commission issued its recommendation to national and european political parties and to the member states to further enhance the democratic, transparent and efficient conduct of the european elections, and we completely agree in our proposals with what andrew duff has just said in his presentation. i would like therefore to thank the parliament and its rapporteur for addressing all these issues and to take up also the proposals of our recommendation. we coincide in most of our proposals, but mostly we coincide in the will to reinforce the legitimacy of the eu decision-making process and bring this system closer to the citizens. the report also points to the need for an electoral campaign based on european party platforms and programmes. i believe that this is very important and will send a positive signal to citizens across the eu; citizens should know what they are voting for and it should be very transparent. they should also know where their elected candidates will sit in this parliament and for which programme they will stand. this is also the sense of the commission’s proposal to strengthen the effectiveness of all european political parties, because this proposal would give the european political parties greater visibility and enable them to operate across the eu by giving them a genuine european legal status. i believe that this will also be very important and i know we can count on the european parliament to work hand in hand with us in order to achieve our goals.
the european union has gradually become a union based on the dual legitimacy of citizens and states, with the introduction of direct elections to the european parliament and the subsequent conferral of increased powers and prerogatives on the latter. this development, enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, requires the creation of a genuine european political area in order to realize its full potential. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow proposes a number of practical measures of a non-legislative and non-constitutional nature which, if adopted, could make a significant contribution to strengthening the genuinely european character of the 2014 elections. in particular, many of the proposed measures revolve around the main innovation, the nomination by european political parties of their candidates for the post of president of the commission. this is a crucial innovation which is going to profoundly change the nature of the relationship of trust between parliament and the european commission and it is very positive that it is now supported by the commission itself. i would also like to remind those who have expressed scepticism, such as chancellor merkel, that the treaty clearly states that the president of the commission is elected by parliament and that the european council's proposal must take account of the result of the elections and be submitted after appropriate consultations, and these consultations obviously cannot concern the person whom the president is to elect, namely parliament, because it would be absurd to think that the phrase refers to the member states which are already members of the european council and which therefore do not need to consult each other. if, therefore, in the european elections in may next year, the citizens of europe are to vote not only for a national party but for a european party and thus also for the leadership of the commission, the electoral campaign and the voting process must give material shape to a european political space which makes the electorate's choice fully aware and informed. we are convinced that if this happens, and if the recommendations contained in this report are followed, the forthcoming elections will be a decisive step in the building of a political and democratic europe capable of meeting the challenges of the 21st century and of giving substance to its values and principles.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr duff, it is right to reform the rules for the next european elections, but there is another problem: the european union is a model which has unfortunately failed. it was supposed to be a win-win for everyone, but instead most citizens saw their standard of living plummet. the 2014 european elections will therefore be the most important test in the union's entire history. two years ago, a comedian, roberto benigni, was chosen to represent italy, my country, to celebrate the 150th anniversary of national unity. he represented the false image of a penniless italy that only asks for money on loan. so i apologize now to the italians, no one has ever done this before, for that unworthy representation of our country. italy, like other european countries, has no business to beg for loans from anyone, but on the contrary it is the people, the italian, the greek, the spanish and others, who are in danger of going bankrupt because of a european policy which has so far only protected the banks. italy is paying more than it owes to europe and is its largest net contributor. the european vote will decide whether to continue to bleed or to say enough. some governments do not realize that by imposing austerity alone they are sawing the branch on which they are sitting. we are reforming this europe, but we want it to be the europe of the people again, not just the europe of the banks, with the next elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to repeat all that has already been said in praise of mr duff's report, which i also thank for his report, but to say something new i would like to reflect for a moment on the relationship between a sense of belonging, european integration and elections. a true european must feel italian, english, french, german, spanish, etc., but he must also feel proud and convinced of being european, and the election is of particular importance for this to happen. the most important thing is that the commission should be able to give its opinion on the matter, and that the commission should be able to give its opinion on the matter. but i would also like to stress small things which would seem small at first sight, such as the indication of a precise date on which all the countries will have to vote at the same time and the simultaneous indication of the results, small elements which, moreover, underline this sense of belonging to europe. but above all i would like to point out another important point, namely that the advance of the voting date is not only an element which ensures a better efficiency of the commission, but also allows the people's sovereignty to realize that it is the people's sovereignty. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. "i count, i am there, i am european". we must remember that sovereignty - we have many discussions about the relationship between national sovereignty and european sovereignty, national parliaments and the european parliament - belongs to the people and we want elections to allow this people to express sovereignty by indicating its membership of europe.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is an important agreement which opens up prospects of great interest. services are now a fundamental part of the market, perhaps the one with the greatest potential for growth, but also the one with the most significant impact on the daily life of our societies. for this reason, as liberal democrats, we are very cautious in certain areas of vital importance, especially for developing countries, but also for countries where the business culture sometimes no longer has sufficient transparency, or at least some of its sectors, or where infiltration of illicit interests can even occur. we have therefore tabled our own amendment and we also support an amendment by the unitary left on public services of general interest which makes it clear that there is no obligation to privatise or liberalise services even if they are monopolies, existing monopolies, whether public or private. and even if a state should decide to open up these services to foreign suppliers, it is still within its rights to regulate and ensure those standards of quality, safety in the supply of other legitimate public policy objectives. it is therefore good to open up the service market, which is the greatest support for the commission's negotiations, but this must be done while respecting the possibility of universal access and quality for society as a whole, both in europe and in third countries. we also support the request for full information on the state of progress of the negotiations, but we reject the 20 amendments tabled by the unitarian left which contradict the spirit of a european trade policy for multilateral negotiations. once again, it takes courage, it takes a determined approach to negotiations, but it also takes intelligence to assess the specificities of the various interests, always keeping the collective interest in mind.
member of the commission. - mr president, i shall try to answer each and every one of you, albeit briefly. i've been listening to you very carefully. firstly, to be fair, mr president, we are debating the digital single market this morning because your parliament and, in particular, your committee on the internal market and consumer protection, malcolm harbour and mr arias echeverría, have done a very good job. and this resolution, which is extremely specific, very diverse, supported by almost all of you and your groups, is an extremely important element, which in my view can be seen as an encouragement to the commission to support its efforts. i would like to begin by thanking president harbour and mr arias echeverría. i was pleased to participate in the work of your group a few weeks ago. this decisive resolution sets out the next steps and, as you wished, mrs trautmann, will enable us - perhaps finally, but as you can see, from the multiplicity of texts i have just mentioned, those already in place, those in progress, those to come - to better underline this overall picture - i take your word - which may have been missing so far in the digital single market. we will make other proposals, as i have said, for the next european council in october. many of you, mr bielan, first, then andreas schwab, marielle gallo, on the cloud, mr mölzer and mr kelly, have mentioned investment. you yourself have done so, mrs trautmann, with regard to the mechanism for interconnection in europe, which i myself have said is underfunded. yes, i think it must be about investing in digital, precisely to achieve this non-discrimination, which i will come back to. that is also why i have launched, in the other part of my work on financial regulation, this green paper on long-term investment. it is a question of how to help, through banking or financial market regulation, through governance, through taxation, perhaps also through credits, through the european investment bank, the long-term investment, which we obviously need for the development of this digital single market. the mechanism for interconnection in europe is there but will not be enough. mrs. gallo was talking about the cloud. mr. kelly, i know your commitment to protecting citizens and personal data. i myself said in my introduction just now that if there is one lesson, perhaps among others, to be drawn from this crisis on the espionage of which europe is the victim, it is a lesson for the future on the need for political will to equip europe with the tools of its strategic autonomy. i've quoted galileo, the telecommunications companies, but the cloud is clearly part of that too. we have a number of tools on all these subjects to build up europe's strategic autonomy. mrs trautmann spoke of the action we are taking to make better use of the telecoms regulation, encouraging us to go further. i would remind you that our action is based on the competitive reality of markets, which unfortunately remain too national, too fragmented. the initiative that mrs kroes will present in september for telecommunications is precisely intended to move towards a genuine european single market, and i know that it will be supported by you. many of you have mentioned non-discrimination, mainly geographical. mr correia de campos, i was sensitive to this because you know that i am attached to the handicap of the remoteness of the outermost regions, but we would find, in the continent itself, other examples of this discrimination due to altitude, remoteness, isolation in certain regions. this point was raised by mrs gebhardt and mr mazej kukovič. i also remember what was said earlier about the discrimination against women, which mrs kammerevert mentioned. you are right to insist on this requirement of non-discrimination between consumers. this is also why we will shortly be publishing a guide on the application of this principle, particularly in relation to article 20 of the services directive. i would also like to say to mr weidenholzer and mrs kammerevert, who have mentioned copyright, that the work i have been doing for the last three years - and i have put many texts on your table and that of the council - which have not yet been voted on, is precisely aimed at ensuring that copyright is modernised, up to date, like intellectual property. and this is clearly the time of the single market and the internet, for the greatest number of citizens to have access to content. i simply hope that the texts i have proposed to you - some of them have been voted on - will be voted on soon, i hope, for example, on multi-territorial licences and better governance of copyright management companies. fiona hall and róza thun have mentioned roaming. indeed, a further decline occurred on 1 july. we must go further overall. this is the initiative we are preparing on telecommunications, which i have just mentioned. neelie kroes herself confirmed that the roaming surcharge would eventually disappear. i also thank you, mrs hall, for inviting me to visit a digital café in your constituency. i'll see if i can find the time to go. as soon as i can get out of my office, i'm very happy. i'll see if i can make it. in any case, thank you for your call on the long tail effect of the internet, which i mentioned. mrs gebhardt and mrs schaake spoke of broadband infrastructure, net neutrality, which is essential, as is universal access to broadband. i think the connecting europe facility will help. and then we have this year - i remind you - this net neutrality initiative, led by my colleague neelie kroes. as regards open standards, as mrs schaake has mentioned, we will also make our position clear, and we must promote, as you wish, open access through these standards. the commission has just adopted a communication on telecommunications. mrs mcclarkin referred to the common law of sales and expressed some doubts. i would like to remind you that in our proposal this will be an option for dealers in electronics to sell throughout the european union with a high level of consumer protection. we are not replacing national consumer laws, but we are opening up an additional possibility. mrs handzlik and mrs del castillo vera have just mentioned a very important area where savings can be made: digitisation, the digitalisation of public procurement and public procurement, which represents 18% of european gdp. i should like to say in this connection that i have presented several initiatives with my colleagues aimed at this digitisation, including very recently the electronic signature and, more recently, electronic invoicing. i would like to see us together in the digitisation of public procurement and public procurement. there are 70 to 80 billion dollars that could be saved, every year, in terms of paperwork, if we digitized the entire public procurement. i would like to conclude by mentioning, as mrs stihler has requested, the issues of digital books. the commission has already taken action in this area to prevent certain restrictive practices. that is what my colleague, mr almunia, did. this market is growing and we are accompanying this movement with all our strategies. this is what i personally expect from the licensing europe initiative which has been launched. i said that this afternoon we would be doing a mid-term evaluation of this work, and i am counting heavily on the results of these various workshops to make progress in opening up the single market in this area. finally, mrs essayah mentioned sepa and our initiative, which is planned very soon, and which will include measures on sepa governance. i shall be very objective about the time limits that sometimes seem necessary to achieve the objectives set. i thank you very much for your attention and i thank once again your two moderators on this subject, in particular chairman malcolm harbour and mr arias echeverría, for their commitment and determination, which have been very useful in helping us to bring all these topics together - as in your resolution, we see that there are many of them - and to give them a comprehensive view of this great issue of the digital single market. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. in the digital sector, europe is struggling to keep up with the innovation levels of other advanced economies. in my view, this gap cannot be filled without a true digital single market. in this context, i welcome the efforts of the community institutions to remove the remaining barriers to the completion of the european digital market, including the request by the eu council last march to the commission to draw up, by next october, an ad hoc plan to push digital harmonisation at continental level. i believe that the delay in the completion of the digital single market risks severely penalizing the investments of european companies compared to their american competitors who benefit from a strong internal market regulated in an open and digital-friendly manner. in times of economic and financial crisis, action to stimulate growth and create jobs is essential, emphasising that the completion of the digital single market would be a crucial step towards achieving this objective. in the light of these considerations, i would draw the attention of the european commission to the need to implement its plan for the launch and completion of the digital single market as soon as possible.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 27 million unemployed, mostly young people, 120 million citizens at risk of poverty - i am not talking about a situation in a distant country hit by some unforeseen catastrophe, but about europe in 2013. i would like to join you in calling on the union to take new measures to promote health and social care for vulnerable groups. only if we establish today - without self-doubt and without buts and without that false optimism which is too often present here - that the europeans are the first to be vulnerable in europe; the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the citizens of our member states who are forced to emigrate in search of work, the european families who, after paying contributions to the state for years, have been left without assistance and are forced, in extreme cases, and increasingly unfortunately, to look for food in the garbage or to turn to caritas for food or other aid. i would advise some bureaucrats in brussels or perhaps some members of parliament to leave their offices and go to our cities and they would unfortunately see this too. at least four million italians between the ages of 40 and 60 are living in poverty, despite having a job, without being able to afford a decent meal or a roof over their heads. in the face of this humanitarian emergency, let us stop losing ourselves in rhetoric about minorities, roma, illegal immigrants and above all let us stop asking who is sick - our citizens - to be worse off. before we start talking about the importance of inclusion, let's think about our people who have worked their whole lives and today they can't make ends meet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe does not, as we know, have direct competence in social and medical care, but we cannot hide behind this mantra of the competence of the member states. there is certainly a legal basis for this argument, but it does not justify altering what ultimately becomes the european identity itself, which is a union based on solidarity. health care also means bridging the gap between those who need it and those who can help, and this of course includes the responsibilities of the state. europe might also need to include among its convergence parameters an indicator of the quality of social and medical services, creating a kind of free port - as we in my party have called it - protected from indiscriminate cuts that guarantees access to health services. but there are also other things, such as quality of education, including supporting teachers, psychological help where necessary, special attention to the elderly, to migrant populations, lifelong training, prevention, and practical action, particularly in relation to health and social problems for those who are in need. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. i think that mr jean lambert has done an excellent job as rapporteur, as he always does - he knows what he is talking about, a vademecum of good practice and of things that can be done and not of wishful thinking, not simply of good wishes - which is valuable both for the commission and for national administrations. i hope that this voice will be heard so that europe is not divided into two, between those who need help and those who do not, because this breakdown will eventually blow everything up, it will blow up the european identity itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot deny that europe fortunately has a fairly high average level of assistance, especially when compared with other countries such as the united states. however, we cannot risk losing the level achieved because of the current economic crisis. we can cut back in many areas, but health and care must not be affected. the report refers to the independent living project for disabled people, which is a great opportunity that can enable them to live better and feel less the burden of their condition. a couple of weeks ago, several disabled people from tuscany occupied the headquarters of the tuscany region in florence to demand that the funds to support these projects not be cut. the situation seems to have been resolved for the better, perhaps with the usual seaman's promises, but it is not acceptable to have to resort constantly to such initiatives to obtain what should be a natural right. the crisis cannot affect the lives of people who are already suffering the most, this would seem logical but the reality is quite different. the text stresses the need to guarantee access to care for particular groups, such as the roma and immigrants, and i say that unfortunately many italian citizens of what used to be called the middle class are also in extreme difficulty and it is also and above all to them that we must look, because the crisis is bringing to their knees a whole section of the population that is at risk of no longer being able to use certain health services that should instead be guaranteed to them. president, our people first, then everyone else.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the paradox of this debate is terrible. we are here to discuss the effects and consequences of our choices, our policies. the area of vulnerability, which affects the whole life cycle, namely children, women, young people, immigrants, the elderly, is growing because in recent years we have pursued a blind policy of austerity, which has cut our public budgets and thus called into question an entire model of welfare and social well-being to the point that in many european countries we are privatising what has been public for 10, 15, 20, 30 years and which made social investment the substance and identity of european policy. what then? first of all, we must reverse these policies - we cannot do it with policies to contain public finances - and resume a policy of public investment which reduces the risk area and puts in place preventive policies. at the same time - and this is the last point - we are trying to use cohesion policy, including integrated territorial investment, to bring together the social fund and the erdf, neighbourhoods, housing and also active assistance policies.
in writing. there is widespread fear that the crisis we have been experiencing in recent years has not yet unfolded its most severe effects. the policies put in place so far have proved ineffective in countering the most serious social effects and, in many cases, have had a counterproductive effect, leading to a marked worsening of situations of greatest vulnerability. the most vulnerable situations are those that have been worst affected by the crisis because, to an initial situation of weakness, the effects of linear cuts in essential services have been added. among these, health services and universal access to care should be considered non-negotiable elements, the maintenance and availability of which are essential for large sections of the european population. the austerity path is wrong and economically ineffective, but it also risks exacerbating injustice and suffering; europe, even and especially in a time of crisis, must defend and strengthen its social model, for this is the only way to fairly define the way out of the crisis.
in writing. - georgia is a state which, despite its problems (and i am not only referring to geopolitical problems linked to its location), has been making giant steps for several years now to approach standards in line with european expectations. i am therefore pleased that the negotiations between our institutions have finally unblocked this aid, which will certainly consolidate the virtuous path already begun and allow for a further improvement in political and commercial relations. i congratulate the rapporteur on the result achieved.
in writing. − in august 2010, the eu disbursed the last tranche of financial assistance to georgia of eur 46 million. the commission is now considering granting georgia a further macroeconomic concession in view of the future conclusion of an eu-georgia free trade association agreement. i am not in favour of this further enlargement, which is unnecessary given the country's economic recovery and unfair to the european regions which are suffering from a severe economic recession.
in writing. - a further step forward was taken today in plenary, after three years of difficult negotiations. it was not easy to reach agreement, and i thank the irish presidency for its efforts, in close cooperation with the european parliament, to reach a common position as quickly as possible. we cannot afford any further delays in supporting our neighbor georgia. just look at the data: 7.8% increase in the trade balance in 2010, 32%, even in 2011. the country's gross external debt statistics are not reassuring. the €46 million provided for financial assistance must not, however, be a waste of money. i therefore consider it essential to have provided for the implementation of a programme of structural reforms as a mandatory condition for georgia to receive assistance. the financial assistance instrument can also be a useful and expendable model in relations with other neighbouring third countries.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament voted in favour of this second macro-financial assistance plan for georgia. georgia is a state on the border of the european union, which faces its own difficulties with dignity. the european union had granted two financial assistance packages to georgia at the international donor conference in october 2008. each of these assistance plans had a budget of €46 million. this pro-european and pro-french country must be helped by the european union to recover its debts and to rebuild its productive capacity. i therefore vote in favour of this new financial aid.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's proposal for a decision on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to georgia to support economic stabilisation and to alleviate balance of payments needs.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion on the report on the joint text, approved by the conciliation committee, of the european parliament and council decision on the granting of further macrofinancial assistance to georgia. the objectives of this concession are different. first, a contribution to georgia's external financing needs would be provided. the concession would support the fiscal consolidation and external stabilisation effort under an international monetary fund programme, as well as support structural reforms that would stimulate sustainable growth and ensure transparency and efficiency in the management of public finances. a further important objective would be achieved under the eu-georgia european neighbourhood policy and eastern partnership action plan, in that the country's efforts in this regard would be significantly encouraged: this would promote closer economic and financial integration with the union, with a view to achieving a comprehensive free trade area between the parties.
in writing. − after a series of long and complicated negotiations in which the institutions disagreed on the application of comitology rules in the case of macrofinancial assistance to a third country, a solution has finally been found. georgia will thus be able to receive the long-stalled aid which is essential to support its economic stabilisation and to alleviate its balance of payments needs.
in writing. - i also voted in favour of this proposal for a directive in connection with the work i am doing on the general data protection regulation. in fact, since the regulation deals with what the controller of data must or must not do, and does not deal with the penalties for those who gain access to it illegally, i voted with interest on this report because it is the other side of the same coin: i have had a long discussion with my colleagues about what the data controller should do in the event of unauthorized access by third parties, but the punishment of a data breacher does not fall within the scope of that measure. it cannot be underestimated that access to information systems can be even more serious than home invasion in some cases, and that the absence of physical threat to people does not mean that the value of what can be stolen is lower. i am glad that the legislation is up to date.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive lays down minimum rules on offences (and related sanctions) in relation to attacks against computer systems. since action in this area is now indispensable, given the importance of the new media in everyday life, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - 8.9 million victims of cybercrime in italy in 2012, almost a third of active internet users in italy. eur 2.45 billion is the estimated cost of the damage caused by these crimes. no it platform is immune to cyber threats. i therefore consider the proposal voted on today to be a good starting point, which shows the union's concern for the safety of its citizens. it is a question of responding to these threats, which affect hundreds of millions of people all over the world. to this end, it was important to work on an even more precise definition of the penalties envisaged. however, the european union needs to adopt an approach to preventing such crimes, and in this respect the identification in the proposal of certain minimum standards of protection and liability was an important step forward.
in writing. - i supported the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on attacks against information systems as a key element for political communication. it is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure that there are precise and coordinated rules between the various member states on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions, the powers of the relevant bodies and the guarantee of adequate levels of protection for the media.
in writing. - today's society is dependent on information systems, which are therefore essential for political, economic and social exchanges within the union. in addition to the undeniable benefits they bring, there are many risks to computer security due to the complexity of the systems and their vulnerability. the member states and the european union are called upon to provide concrete and precise answers to this constant concern. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on attacks against computer systems. i believe that it is essential for the member states to commit themselves to strengthening their criminal legislation in order to achieve strong and stable cooperation which reduces national differences and provides for more effective treatment of offences committed within the union, given the cross-border nature of the threats in this area.
in writing. − information systems are a key element of political, social and economic interaction in the union. their proper functioning and safety are fundamental to the development of the internal market and a competitive and innovative economy. i therefore welcome this proposal for a directive which aims to protect european citizens by harmonising the criminal laws of the member states with regard to attacks against information systems and by improving cooperation between member states and police forces.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know whether i should also thank you - if anyone is listening to us from the pentagon offices at this moment - but, aside from that, i would like to say that i was very pleased to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by my party, the epp, because it places great emphasis on the issue of international security in the fight against terrorism, but at the same time it places equal emphasis on the protection of the privacy of the citizens of the european union. in this way, the european institutions are recommended and committed to cooperating with the friends of the united states, but to cooperate with a view to preserving the privacy and security of data which are certainly useful in the fight against international terrorism, but which can seriously harm the privacy of each citizen.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it expresses our serious concerns over the allegations that the us authorities are spying on the eu institutions, through bugging of offices, use of electronic implants and antennae, and the infiltration of email and telephone networks. if the allegations prove to be true, it would be an extremely critical matter which will have a severe impact on eu-us relations. moreover, although the us authority was asked for a formal explanation, no satisfactory answer has been received yet. i believe that we have the right to speedily receive full clarification and further information from the us authorities. we must also emphasise that this type of interception cannot be justified within the scope of anti-terrorism or national security measures. therefore, if the allegations are proved correct, this should be considered a violation of international law, and specifically the vienna convention on diplomatic relations.
in writing. the resolution we adopted was a good compromise, although we did not agree with it 100%. my group had prepared another one, which i think is better, but the rules of democracy require that if the whole parliament, representing all european citizens, has to express its opinion on a subject, it is better to compromise and extend the scope of the debate than to stick to one's own positions and risk being in the minority. in this case, i am pleased with the overall result of this resolution, firstly because it is a strong signal from the european parliament. secondly, it is quite clear that this should not lead us to suspend the negotiations for a free trade agreement. finally, and this is a point i would like to make very strongly, the so-called 'safe harbour' agreement should be reviewed because, while overall good and useful, it contains pitfalls which we did not foresee when it was concluded. the public has reason to be concerned, and we are investigating to make sure that their safety, and that of their data, is not in jeopardy.
in writing. − the european parliament has always been very attentive to the issue of the security of european citizens, especially when it comes to the protection of personal data. therefore, it is not possible to remain indifferent to the news that has been reported by the guardian and the washington post about the prism program conducted by the us national security agency. worrying news, which at the moment is suspect. i would first of all urge caution before shouting the word "espionage" out loud. we must not forget the trust and mutual esteem which have characterised eu-us relations up to now and which have led to the opening of discussions on a possible free trade agreement. at the same time, however, i strongly urge the united states to clarify its position in such a way as to give a clear answer not only to our governments but above all to our citizens, whose protection remains our priority.
in writing. - what is happening with the united states seems to take us back fifty years to the cold war period, when espionage and cross-checks were the order of the day. the problem is that this historical period has long since ended, and it is not a question of controlling the 'enemies' but rather the privileged partners with whom one is working assiduously on the most diverse matters, including the transatlantic agreement which has been under discussion for some time now. the basis of a strong relationship must be loyalty, which in this case does not seem to have been respected in the slightest: the european union must be uncompromising in defending its position, even by blocking the agreement in question. we cannot accept that the rights of european citizens and the security of our member states are so blatantly violated. the united states believes that it is the only remaining superpower and can therefore do whatever it wants: the european parliament has a duty to make a statement on the situation in the middle east.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution on the us national security agency's surveillance programme of the surveillance agencies and programmes of several member states and the private lives of european citizens. a thorough investigation of these programmes is therefore necessary in order to identify cases of violation of fundamental rights and to provide for measures to protect privacy from external interference.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the surveillance programme of the us national security agency, the surveillance bodies in various member states and their impact on the private lives of citizens of the european union. the transatlantic partnership between the european union and the united states is clearly based on mutual trust and respect, as well as cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. however, europe is seriously concerned about the prism programme and other similar programmes which would violate the right to privacy and data protection in the first place and, more generally, the fundamental rights of community citizens. in democratic and open states based on the rule of law, informing citizens in the event of a violation of their fundamental rights remains the priority. so, to find out whether there was espionage in this case is a must. the us authorities are invited to provide the eu with specific information on the prism programme, in particular on its legal basis and the safeguards adopted in relation to the protection of fundamental rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which contains a series of invitations to member states concerning the conduct of the next european elections to be held from 22 to 25 may 2014. i share the call for the electoral campaign to focus on european rather than national issues, as is often the case, which has a negative impact on the participation of citizens in elections. it is also desirable that political parties make the names of candidates public at least 6 weeks before the elections to allow the electorate to know and evaluate them, as well as to ensure a greater presence of women on the lists and in any case a democratic and transparent selection of candidates. i too believe that national political parties must show their membership of a european party in time to make their programme and political vision clear and visible. it is therefore important to organise debates and discussion to strengthen contact with citizens and to prevent abstentionism, the real evil of democracy today.
in writing. - i would like to thank mr duff for the excellent work he has done on his report. the european parliament has voted today to underline the importance of the stakes in the forthcoming european elections. it is not just a question of organising the electoral contest, but of stimulating the european dimension in the citizens, which is too often overshadowed by national policies or used as a 'cover' for their own shortcomings. turnout in european elections has fallen by almost 19 percentage points over 30 years, from 61.99% in 1979 to 43% in 2009. it is essential to reverse this trend and to boost public confidence in the institutions. the resolution adopted today proposes a number of measures, such as the simultaneous publication of the election results and the organisation of european-wide electoral campaigns for the candidates for the presidency of the commission. these are small measures which, taken together, strengthen the legitimacy of the european system.
in writing. this report was discussed by all the political groups represented in the european parliament. i am pleased that the negotiations on the organisation of the 2014 european elections have resulted in concrete proposals to which i unreservedly give my full support. the proposals are as follows: publication of the election results only after all polling stations in the european union have closed on sunday 25 may 2014; visibility of european political parties on the ballot papers; requiring all candidates to effectively fulfil their mandate as members of the european parliament.
in writing. − the 2014 elections will be the first elections to the european parliament since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, an election of greater importance that must ensure full representation of european citizens. the report by mr duff on practical ways of improving the organisation of the european elections should be an incentive for the commission to urge the member states to carry out wider information policies. we must make all citizens aware of the importance of this vote, involve them and bring them closer to the european union by making them understand that their vote will be crucial for the future choices that will affect families and businesses over the next five years.
in writing. - the resolution adopted today stresses that the candidate for president of the commission, who has been put forward by the european political party with the largest number of seats in parliament, must be the first to be considered in order to verify his ability to obtain the support of an absolute majority in the same seat. i believe that the resolution adopted today is a step forward in the direction of better organising crossborder elections, although i would still like to see an electoral change so that the president of the commission can be directly elected in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on improving the practical arrangements for the 2014 european elections, the first since the lisbon treaty, because i believe that more emphasis should be given to the programmes of political groups and to european-level issues in order to enable citizens to have a better knowledge of the union's policies and a greater awareness of the programmes. i think it is appropriate that the media in all the member states should give visibility to the programmes of the various groups, so as to involve the citizens more. political parties will have to nominate candidates for the presidency of the commission in advance, so as to enable them to organise a european-wide election campaign which will enable them to present their electoral programme in the best possible way, and political debates will have to be promoted in all member states between party representatives and between candidates nominated for the presidency of the commission. as in any election, national governments must make every effort to give the election event the greatest possible visibility, so as to get as many citizens as possible to the polls, ensuring genuine representation, and measures must be taken to assist all voters and candidates.
in writing. − the fact that this resolution was not approved is a huge missed opportunity for this parliament. i strongly supported this resolution because the arab spring has revealed the absolute necessity of strengthening the eu common position on arms exports and starting rapid implementation of the arms trade treaty (att). indeed, despite the fact that the spirit of the common position is aimed at preventing any arms exports which can lead to the exacerbation of conflicts and massive human rights violations, many european countries have, during the past few years, ignored all these fears and sold large numbers of weapons to governments in the middle east and north africa. the common position states that compliance with the eight criteria takes precedence over any economic interests of member states. for this reason it is vital to start implementing the common position with all its obligations. there should be a mechanism to penalise its violation by a member state.
in writing. the first instinct, when we talk about arms exports, is to think of the export of violence and war. it is not entirely wrong, but it must be borne in mind that the production of arms also has its own content in terms of research and development, and has an employment impact, which is also very important in some areas. the latin said "si vis pacem, para bellum". i am a peace-loving person and i believe that arms exports must be regulated by a specific legal framework, linked to industrial and foreign policy, and this resolution is precisely in that direction.
in writing. − according to data from the stockholm peace research institute (sipri), the eu member states are, collectively, the world's largest arms exporters, ahead of the usa and russia. in 2011, 61% was destined for third countries, and this percentage is likely to increase. the european parliament, by its vote today, is calling loudly for the strengthening of arms control policies and military technology. transparency and information are the key words that the european union must ask its member states. this is a strategic sector for economic development and at the same time a sensitive one. it is therefore essential to continue working on the uniform application of the common principles on arms export licences, established in 2008.
in writing. - in the resolution adopted today, it was stressed that the european parliament and national parliaments must play a more influential role in ensuring effective demand monitoring and enforcement of eu rules on the arms trade, while also welcoming the binding un treaty on arms trade (att). the eu must strengthen its policy of controlling exports of military technology and equipment. the european union is the second largest arms exporter after the united states, and i believe that today's decision is of great importance in the direction of better application of the criteria contained in common position 2008/944/cfsp.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the common position on arms exports because, according to the coarm reports, not all member states send complete information on exports and several countries, which are also involved in world exports, still do not provide sufficient information. the reporting has over time led to improved arms export controls but it would be desirable, in order to continue improvements, to work towards higher levels of transparency through the publication of data in a comprehensive and timely manner, with a focus on cooperation with national structures and civil society. annual reports should be drawn up to ensure a higher level of control and transparency at european level, so as to avoid that several states become indebted through arms sales processes with poorly transparent mechanisms. the member states, together with their governments and internal control bodies, will have to commit themselves to providing more detailed and up-to-date information and to ensuring compliance with the main criteria contained in the common position. however, a clear position at european level is needed to ensure uniform discipline and an effective control system for all.
in writing. − the eu plays a major role in trade in services, which account for 28% of exports and more than half of foreign direct investment in third countries and are key to maintaining and strengthening the union's competitiveness. i agree with the promotion of an ambitious programme with regard to the eu's offensive interests, with particular reference to business services, financial services and legal services. i think it is right to prevent commitments and rules on financial services which are in contradiction with the measures recently adopted to regulate financial markets and products themselves. i would stress the importance of these negotiations in order to provide more stringent rules on competition and transparency, which are essential requirements for the granting of sector-specific licences. i am voting in favour of this proposal, in the hope that it will improve the value of services and thus the economy of the european union.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations on a multilateral agreement of an international character on services. given the importance of the services sector in the european economy, negotiations on trade in services within the multilateral trading system represented by the wto should be initiated in order to ensure fair conditions of competition and promote european trade interests.
in writing. − the services sector is an important resource for the european union. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations for a multilateral agreement on services, because i believe that europe must become increasingly integrated into a multilateral trading system in order to maintain and strengthen its competitiveness on a world scale. services are an essential element of the economy and trade and a source of social cohesion for citizens, from the local to the community level. i share the concern that the parties to the negotiations do not include the emerging markets and the brics countries, which would make a significant contribution as they have a steady and significant growth in trade and investment in services, but often face obstacles, especially in relation to foreign investment: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. in the negotiations, european sensitivities concerning public services and services of general interest, such as public education, public health, water supply and waste disposal, must be taken into account.
in writing. the european union has been fighting for free trade since its foundation. this is not simply a declaration of principle, of course, but a battle in which a great many achievements have been made, including greater freedom of choice over the vast majority of goods and services, and lower costs through improved efficiency of firms in a more competitive market. clearly, like all political choices, there are pros and cons. however, when a country like norway defends its own agricultural production by artificially reducing the competitiveness of imported products, it does damage in two ways: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive. and fortunately for other countries the norwegian market is rarely strategic, while for italy in particular i do not foresee major problems, relying on the willingness of the norwegians to pay higher prices in order to have italian quality at the table. i voted in favour of this resolution to underline the vulnus which norway has created in the international trading system.
in writing. the continuing increase in norwegian duties on agricultural products could not leave the european parliament indifferent. the house has today made its position clear by calling on the norwegian government to amend the recent measures taken, in clear violation of the letter and spirit of the bilateral agreement. the economic logic behind these measures is not seen, which have the effect not only of reducing trade but also of harming european and norwegian producers in the long run. i also think it is essential that the european commission expresses its opinion on the matter and clarifies what measures it intends to take in the event that norway does not wish to reverse its course.
in writing. - norway cannot be condemned at all, since it is only doing what the european union should do, namely defending its own interests. in this particular case, it is a kind of small trade war between sweden and norway, and oslo has every right to take whatever measures it deems appropriate to protect its products. the european union, instead of criticising this decision, should take it as an example and defend its own commercial interests vis-à-vis our non-eu partners. in brussels, on the other hand, they believe that protectionism is a kind of dangerous 'disease' that we must eradicate at all costs: nothing could be more wrong, because in doing so we expose ourselves too much to no defense. some timid initiatives, such as the eu's tariffs on photovoltaic panels and ceramics, have provoked strong reactions both outside and within the european union itself, demonstrating a clear contrast of views, which the name "union" alone cannot heal and hide. in the field of trade policy we have at least two european unions: the north, the big multinationals, who would like to have the doors open to relocate and do business elsewhere, and the rest of europe, the heart of small manufacturing, which is in danger of being crushed.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on international trade concerning the increase in norwegian duties on agricultural products, condemning the recent protectionist measures imposed by the norwegian government which could have a negative impact on trade in the whole of the european union.
in writing. − the application of technology to the internal market is estimated to generate efficiency gains of eur 800 billion. this is a value which cannot be ignored, and the imco committee is calling, through this motion for a resolution which will be voted on at the next plenary session, for the european commission to take action so that european citizens can exploit this potential. to this end, the legal and technological instruments identified by the rapporteurs, who have been working on this subject for years, must be available, as well as creating the conditions for the consumer to have the necessary skills and the confidence that underpins any economic system. italian smes could see their potential market increase tenfold, and consumers would enjoy more freedom of choice and more competitive markets, with advantages in terms of price and quality. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - president, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because, at a time of crisis such as the present one, i am more convinced than ever that the digital agenda and the completion of a digital single market must be at the heart of the initiatives and decisions taken by the european union. the digital economy is growing at seven times the rate of the rest of the economy, and the completion of the digital single market could provide the decisive impetus for the exit from the crisis. the completion of the digital single market could bring europe some eur 800 billion, and not only the union's economy but also and above all ordinary citizens and businesses would benefit. strong political leadership is needed at both eu and national level if we are to tackle and break down the existing barriers to the digital single market. more investment is needed in the training of young people to ensure that they are ready to enter a completely restructured labour market. the member states obviously have a decisive role to play in completing the digital single market and must make it a political priority in order to create jobs and generate growth in europe.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its vote today, reiterated the crucial importance of the digital single market for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. it should not be forgotten that 99% of the european production fabric is made up of small and mediumsized enterprises. particular attention is therefore needed to ensure that they can fully benefit from the development of the new market. in this respect, the member states must commit themselves to removing the barriers which still exist to the development of this market and to simplifying tax legislation, especially as regards vat.
in writing. − the completion of a digital single market is one of the european challenges that we must absolutely complete as quickly as possible: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim is to develop and exploit technologies on a large scale, comparable to our most direct competitors: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the potential of a digital single market is vast and constantly evolving, as is the nature of the sector itself: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services it provides, such as the creation of a new service centre, the creation of a new service centre, the creation of a new service centre, the creation of a new service centre, the creation of a new service centre, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the creation of new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the new services, the old, the new, the new, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the old, the
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution on completing the european digital single market as a key instrument to make the european economy more competitive and dynamic while protecting the interests of consumers. the commission should also be able to provide information on the costs of the measures to be taken in the event of a dispute between the parties.
in writing. − the development of the digital single market is a general political priority. promoting innovation and investing in it skills becomes crucial in the context of an increasingly digitalised society. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the digital single market, so that europe can take a leading role in the world of mobile technology and smart devices, enabling its citizens and businesses to make the most of the opportunities offered by the digital revolution. there are several beneficiaries. the digital single market promotes employment first and foremost by shaping and demanding new professionals; enables older people to remain active at work; ensures greater efficiency in health systems; it provides consumers in an increasingly developed e-commerce sector with a wider range of choices, especially for those living in remote areas or with reduced mobility. in promoting the digital single market, the issue of competition and the possible harm that could result from it should not be overlooked. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the development of the digital economy.
in writing. − spending cuts to meet european public debt reduction targets result in high social costs and lack of access to services for a significant part of the population. from a social point of view, this situation has a negative effect on both individuals and families, and the difficulty and complexity of the procedures for requesting access to these services sometimes leads people to avoid requesting them, thus excluding themselves from what is their right. i believe that it is appropriate and necessary to change or reform social security systems in order to ensure that some people are not excluded from cover. i agree with the emphasis on the importance of protecting disabled people and their quality of life, because the decline in benefits and services has a negative effect on disabled people. i am voting in favour of this resolution, hoping that measures will be taken to combat unemployment and that adequate funding will be provided to ensure that adequate social and health services are provided to meet the needs of the population.
in writing. - the economic crisis is clearly affecting those social segments and infrastructural environments which had proved less solid even before it began. for this reason, vulnerable groups (children, the elderly, migrants) in peripheral and degraded areas are those who today see their chances of a decent life and access to adequate care most at risk. as often happens in times of crisis, when the number of people at risk increases (due to the increase in unemployment and migration), governments are forced to cut primary expenditure, first of all healthcare. cohesion policy provides a new instrument - integrated territorial investments - which allows for interventions financed from several funds. what better opportunity could there be to try - in the many degraded neighbourhoods, the same ones where the most critical problems are concentrated - a mixed intervention which, on the one hand, intervenes through the erdf in the recovery of abandoned and dilapidated buildings, transforming them into modern and functional structures and, on the other hand, through the esf, to try out in those structures forms of 'neighbourhood assistance', which enhances the many experiences of volunteering on the go, both domestic assistance and assistance in private care homes.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the economic crisis has had serious consequences for access to care, particularly for the most vulnerable groups such as elderly women and single mothers who are already at high risk of poverty and social exclusion. women in these vulnerable groups continue to face increasingly serious barriers to access to quality health services and care, including through cuts in funding for national health services. as vice-chair of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am deeply concerned about further and disproportionate discrimination against women from vulnerable groups in accessing care. i voted in favour because i also share the need to adopt appropriate information campaigns for women belonging to vulnerable groups so that they are well informed of their rights in terms of access to care and in particular to health care. in this phase of economic crisis, the most vulnerable groups have a particular need to be aware of their fundamental rights in order to access social services, which are often set up in an extraordinary manner, precisely to counter the negative effects of the crisis and to avoid worsening the living conditions of the most vulnerable groups in society.
in writing. i voted in favour of the majority of the amendments in this own-initiative report, in particular because it takes account of the various groups least able to assert their rights to health. i rejected amendments which would have endangered the health systems of certain member states, and in particular french social protection, by an excessive increase in health expenditure. the european union must be more united, and my overall vote proves that, but this solidarity, which has already been called into question in times of crisis, must not be pushed too far, at the risk of being financially imploded.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the impact of the crisis on access to particular services by certain categories of citizens. the continuing cuts in expenditure necessarily imply social responsibility problems, especially in the care of the elderly, the disabled and children. it is therefore necessary to highlight the consequences of these measures and the actual state of inability to provide these services for an increasingly large part of the population.
in writing. - this vote allows us to keep a close watch on the consequences of austerity measures on society in general and especially on its most vulnerable groups. the social dimension must be considered as an integral part of any eu response to the crisis. we must fight tirelessly for inclusive growth and against poverty, because focusing on prevention is more effective than cost in the long run.
in writing. - i am against the own-initiative report because it is politically instrumental in considering vulnerable groups as a priority for immigrants and roma, forgetting that there are already ad hoc structures for them, such as listening and assistance centres. i believe that this report should have given priority to the vulnerable groups not because of their ethnicity but because of their characteristics, for example the elderly, the terminally ill, disabled people who suffer and need special attention, regardless of their place of origin or nationality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the impact of the crisis on access to health care for vulnerable groups. the increase in social inequalities in some parts of the eu is becoming increasingly worrying and the fight against poverty is becoming a priority. the cuts in public spending are having a serious impact on the care of the elderly, the disabled, children and young people. these are the objectively most vulnerable groups and they are certainly entitled to economic and social support from the european community of which they are citizens. it should be noted that the economic crisis not only affects users of the healthcare sector but also healthcare providers, thus negatively affecting the provision and efficiency of the service. it is interesting to note that the excessive costs of medical prescriptions in relation to the incomes of those who need them encourage the latter to forgo treatment, and the complexity of the procedures for accessing social assistance in the member states discourages those who are entitled to it. it is regrettable that the culture of the right to health and social care is being weakened by economic inadequacies. europe has a political and above all a moral duty to intervene.
in writing. - technological developments and market preferences are moving towards a different use of television than it was originally designed for. i fully agree with the aim of realigning the objectives and characteristics of this instrument, and also of adapting the legislative framework. i think that particular attention should be paid to technological neutrality. i believe that the same behaviour should be treated according to the same rules, regardless of the technological tools used. i am also confident that standards will be used to ensure full interoperability of devices.
in writing. the report deals with connected tvs, i.e. equipment which is considered "hybrid" because it allows the user to watch both traditional and internet-based programmes. the proposal is therefore to amend the audiovisual media services directive to apply it to such hybrid programmes. in fact, more and more often in the future, the broadcasting channel manager will control access to the source of the information. we must therefore take action to guarantee the principle of pluralism and freedom of information. that is why i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - connected television is the new frontier in telecommunications, able to integrate the two most widely used channels today: digital television and the internet. the speed with which advances in audiovisual technologies are taking place, however, requires a continuous updating of the regulatory framework in which these advances are taking place. today's vote therefore reflects the need to ensure that citizens are provided with clear regulation in line with industry updates. one aspect to which particular attention should be paid is data protection, which is a subject of much debate today. the new legislation will continue to give top priority to ensuring that data collection and processing is as transparent as possible, and that it is done with the consent of the data subjects. the proposal voted today shows that the european union is not only up to date but also willing to provide adequate responses to the security of its citizens.
in writing. connected television is the possibility of watching conventional linear programmes and content from the internet on a device. the report presented by mrs kammerevert asks the european commission to examine the measures to be taken to avoid unfair competition on these aircraft. the citizens of the european union need to be able to have regulated content on their audiovisual devices so that their viewing choices can be made in full transparency. i therefore vote in favour of this report on connected television.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution on connected television: the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a firm in difficulty, and that it is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a firm in difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on connected television, as this high-technology instrument is becoming more and more widespread on the market and plays an important role in the communications sector. the media are to be regarded as cultural property, since they fulfil a social function aimed at guaranteeing freedom of opinion, the press and information: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a proper manner. if the connected television equipment is based on a system that gives platform operators and producers a controlling position over the content to be broadcast, there is a risk that pluralism of opinion and variety in the service offer will be affected. the need to rework the audiovisual media services directive is therefore one that must be addressed promptly. it is also worth pointing out that a regulatory body in this area must certainly meet the transparency criterion so that the protection of personal data of users is guaranteed through the anonymous use of equipment.
in writing. - mr la via has done a very good job: the commission has been very careful in its report to assert the role of parliament in relation to the council and to speak out against the lack of respect shown. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget to welcome croatia to the european union in the best possible way.
in writing. − the proposed increases in amending budget 1 reflect the package approved in june 2011, but do not include heading 5 which expresses the commission's restrictive approach to administrative expenditure. the rapporteur calls for additional resources and is opposed to a simple reallocation of those already available. since this is due to the accession of croatia to the european union, i am voting against.
in writing. - the european parliament has shown realism today by approving the additional funding for croatia's accession. the total amount of commitments is eur 655.1 million and payments are eur 374 million. these figures may seem impressive at first glance, but they are necessary to cover the costs of croatia's accession to the eu. it was not easy to reach an agreement on this issue, but thanks to the perseverance of parliament it will be possible for croatia to participate fully in european policies.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the draft amending budget of the european union to grant an increase in the budget for expenditure related to the accession of croatia to the european union, a country which will bring additional added value in terms of diversity and cultural richness.
in writing. - the accession of croatia to the eu also entails a revision of the budgets as expenditure has to be redistributed in relation to the accession of a new country. this has required a draft amending budget which will also affect the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. of course, the inclusion of croatia will lead to a higher overall budget, but there was a need to redistribute the values in proportion to the contribution and needs of the new member state. i therefore gave my favourable opinion to the text of mr la via, whom i also thank for his mediation with the council.
in writing. - a resolution was adopted today in parliament on the funding to be granted to croatia following its accession to the european union. this refers to eur 655 100 000 for commitments and eur 374 million for payments, both agreed in advance at the accession conference on 30 june 2011. this is certainly a major step forward and i regret the delay in its implementation. the european union is also committed to the development of the croatian economy. i am satisfied with today's vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i am pleased that the european project is also extending to croatia. italy is doubly interested: on the one hand, this enlargement confirms how right our leaders of the time saw us in laying the foundations for uniting states in certain areas, and then expanding geographically and in depth; on the other hand, with croatia right on the other side of the adriatic, i believe that italy can benefit from closer cooperation and greater integration if synergies are exploited.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i agree with the points made and consider them to be the real basis for improvement in all areas. the commission will have to do more to fill the gaps in last year's programme and make changes to the eu's political priorities while respecting the budget and reviving the european economy. i agree with the presentation of initiatives to improve, develop, complete and implement the digital single market, increase consumer confidence and make online payment easier and safer. i stress the importance of the security and protection of european citizens by eliminating discrimination in all areas and by combating terrorism and organised crime, activities which harm the eu's financial interests. finally, i believe that a common definition of 'tax havens' and the introduction of a blacklist of non-cooperative third countries and jurisdictions is very useful and effective in combating tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. the european parliament is closely following developments in its mediterranean neighbours, as is shown by the resolution adopted today. what is happening in egypt as a result of the intervention of the military authorities is of considerable concern. it is more important than ever to reiterate our support for all egyptians who are calling for a return to a genuine democratic system. only new free and democratic elections can put the country on the right track towards a return to genuine democracy.
in writing. - the situation in egypt is before the eyes of all, and today president morsi was deposed. perhaps the uprisings of the so-called "arab spring" did not bring the wind of change and democracy that many had expected: the new regime of the muslim brotherhood wanted to give the country a different approach. democracy and dialogue were certainly not part of the government's program, and this led to confusion and discontent among the population, with a rebellion that became increasingly massive and significant. i believe that the road to stabilization is still long, and the whole region cannot be said to be at peace. however, this experience of the muslim brotherhood's rule has also shown how difficult, i believe impossible, it is to have a moderate islam: in this case, the military even had to intervene to defuse the situation, and now we have to wait to see how this situation will develop. it is also in the interest of europe, and of course of egypt, that a state of normality should be achieved in the short term, with an immediate end to the violence and unrest, so as to restore internal order and thus also balanced external relations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep's joint motion for a resolution because the situation in egypt, with its recent developments, has negative effects for the whole of the north african region and undermines efforts and funding to promote a democratic system based on the protection of human rights. the recent political tensions are undermining egypt's overall social framework and the eu must continue to maintain a position of defence and promotion of democracy, ensuring its commitment to political stability, which is also the prerequisite for ensuring actions that promote economic recovery. europe will have to try to mediate in this difficult situation to help the crisis to be overcome and will have to put in place measures to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the egyptian government will have to respect the different political positions of the protesters, protect the rights and dignity of women, encourage their participation in political life and promote association as a key element for the creation of a sustainable democratic system. the system will thus be able to rely on financing and aid to ensure economic recovery and social inclusion of the most vulnerable and thus political pluralism.
mr president, commissioner, the phenomenon of mobility among european citizens - a phenomenon of enormous positive significance - has brought the problem we are discussing to the fore, that is, it has brought the problem of the relationship between citizens who marry or are in registered partnerships despite having different nationalities to the fore more forcefully than before. the solution we can find is important and positive, but there is a problem, which the rapporteur has pointed out, not by chance, and which must be solved. the distinction between marriage and registered partnerships is justified only if the same rules and rights apply in both cases. for marriage to be neutral, it is necessary that those in a registered union also be free from discrimination. it is therefore necessary to take account of the indications given by the court and the european agency for fundamental rights and to allow registered partnerships to choose the law applicable to their property regime. only then will there be true unity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done in the legislative process on this regulation on the property regime for marriages and registered couples. after two years of difficult negotiations and in the face of the extreme complexity of the matter, i am very satisfied with the result achieved. the compromise reached will help to achieve the three main objectives of the reform: the establishment of a clear and uniform legal system for determining the court with jurisdiction and the applicable law, the freedom of choice between the parties and the facilitation of the recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions. i am particularly pleased with the compromise reached on the freedom of choice of law for registered couples. the solution found respects the cultural and legal traditions of the member states and makes it possible to break the difficult political deadlock on this issue. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that it is still premature to abolish the exequatur. this regulation concerns a legal institution which is still very different from one member state to another and, since it introduces substantial new elements, it is necessary to wait for it to become more stable over time.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. - mr president, as has already been stressed and according to research, the production of traditional biofuels has negative effects on food prices and climate change because of the so-called 'indirect land use change' which generates an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. for this very reason, the commission has tried to address this problem by recommending limits on so-called conventional biofuels that use food crops as their raw material. the committee on regional development also considered the territorial implications of the new directive, namely that renewable energy and biofuels for transport are often produced by small and medium-sized enterprises, so that the sector's regulation has an impact on the production fabric of many regions of the union. the proposal under discussion will lead to a reduction in the production of traditional biofuels and thus to a reduction in employment in many regions. it is logical that advanced biofuels can generate new growth and jobs, but it is precisely for this reason that it is urgent that the commission should assess more precisely the social and economic impact of the proposal by promoting the use of the structural funds and research.
mr president, the text approved by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety seeks to highlight and at least partially remedy the harmful consequences of the use of biofuels derived from agricultural raw materials, especially in developing countries. the transposition of the two directives on renewable energy and fuel quality has in the past encouraged the massive use of biofuels, but it has hidden the other side of the coin: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the working environment. among the most damaging consequences are the rising prices of agricultural raw materials used to produce biofuels and the growing phenomenon of land grabbing in developing countries. added to this is the production of additional co2 emissions as a result of changes in the use of cultivated land and the change in the use of large areas and land for new agroenergy crops. in the face of almost universal indifference, we have been undermining the biodiversity of many countries for years, with negative repercussions also from the social, agricultural and economic points of view. i therefore believe that the european union must now take a strong signal of change, by reconsidering the virtuousness of current biofuels, which has not been disputed so far, in relation to the targets set in the two directives mentioned, by taking account of their full effects and by taking a decisive step in the direction of the next generation of biofuels, often produced from waste and residues, on which many virtuous companies in europe are already starting to invest.
mr president, as has also been shown during the committee's work, this is a subject on which there are still very different and often very distant positions. there is no doubt that biofuels are a reality that has a market and is expanding more and more both geographically and technologically. when we add new elements to a policy already in place - as in this case - we cannot ignore what has already been done and the amount of investment mobilised to create the production chains that exist today. alongside our efforts to achieve the highest possible sustainability, we must always pay close attention to the competitiveness and soundness of the european energy system. i agree with the limitation of biofuels produced from raw materials that also produce food, but i am also strongly in favour of biofuels from advanced materials. the minimum threshold proposed by the two committees itre and envi is in line with what i believe is useful for this sector.
mr president, if it is true that a litre of biofuel requires 2,500 litres of water and that the land used to grow biofuels in 2008 would have fed 127 million people, i think some reflection is needed. we must ask ourselves whether, with the standards we set a few years ago, with the high expectations, if we continue along this path, we are not really going in the wrong direction and against our intentions. it is good that when an error is made, even from the point of view of forecasting, it is corrected promptly, clearly and decisively. i personally do not see any inconsistency in my being a member of the itre and deve committees, because i believe that we must try to be consistent in our policy choices and not that we must implement sectoral policies which cause negative effects which we must then correct with other sectoral policies. now, the proposals on the ground seem reasonable to me; i am in favour of a drastic reduction in the ceiling forecasts, i am in favour of 5 per cent (we shall see how the majority of this house will react), i am in favour of encouraging the second generation. the technologies are there, they are available, they have been produced with european union funds, so they are being put into practice! i also share the concern, which was very clearly expressed by the chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, about the need to safeguard existing investments, which are also based on our forecasts. it seems to me that this protection of investments is contained in the text under discussion, but it must be emphasized. i think, however, that the investments made in the first generation have not yet reached the growth margin that we could set even with a halving of the target. so there is still room for growth and, most importantly, there is room for incentivizing new investments that do not make this very deleterious and damaging conflict between food and fuel. we need both of you for our future!
mr president, i too thank the commissioner and my colleagues mr buzek and mr merkies for this material and for the approach to the debate, and i hope that the convergence we have today is a strength and not a weakness, and that the absence of controversy is not a weakness, and i hope that this message will also reach the member states and the council. the first point to be made is that the internal market, which does not yet exist, must be put into effect. we have done a great deal in recent years, although - as has already been said and which must be stressed - there is still a lack of application, of harmonization and of reciprocity. i belong to a country which has made a great deal of progress on this road to implementation, but which is often at a disadvantage compared with other member states which have not made the same progress. there is also a lack of solidarity between member states in times of emergency and in the implementation of good crossborder cooperation, in networks, in codes, in short in all the work that absolutely must be continued. we also lack investment and we must be more rigorous in this respect because what has happened with the cef is truly disastrous. one word about that lens... (the president cut the speaker off) (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. mr turmes, i agree with what you asked before i was interrupted the first time, namely that commissioner oettinger should work with commissioner almunia on a review of this state aid matter. i would also like to make this request so that examples such as those of the cooperatives can be made possible. this parliament has approved a report on energy-generating cooperatives and the possibility of providing for different production models, different industrial models, belonging to large industries or cooperative enterprises, which are still industries, albeit different. i believe that the european state aid rules must be adapted to these differences.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work, because european smes are suffering while waiting for the good intentions expressed in this report to come to fruition. it is not possible that the costs of efficient networks and obsolete technologies should be borne not so much by those responsible for them but rather by those at the bottom of the supply chain, namely, in particular, by the companies that need energy to produce. the resulting loss of competitiveness is one of the issues that the european institutions must tackle and solve. the removal of all obstacles to the internal energy market is, and must continue to be, a priority. this is one of the textbook examples of how the european union, by combining similar needs, can exploit economies of scale and make critical mass to be able to change the contract conditions and finally be a european union.
mr president, commissioner, this is a flagrant violation of the principles of equality enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and in all european texts. the first problem we have is the problem of the ineffectiveness of the legislation. for 38 years now, we have been piling up the texts and wanting to move forward. we're not winning. in addition to this ineffectiveness of the legislative texts, we are faced with a mismatch between the investments made in training and the reality of women's wages in the world of work. the consequences are disastrous: women are poor, retired women are much poorer than men, women are leaving the workforce, and if you add to that the flat careers of women, we have no other choice but to legislate. we are going to call on all women in europe to take these inequalities to the european court of justice.
mr president, with equal work there can be no wage disparity to the detriment of women: a loss in the present, about 16 percent less in terms of wages; a loss for the future in terms of pension rights. it is therefore necessary to strengthen a european strategy to put an end to this injustice, to this real discrimination which, among other things, adds to many other injustices and discriminations: women account for 70% of the family burden, they represent 64% of the precarious and atypical workers, more than 25% of women live below the poverty line. i think i have nothing more to add, but it is important that our commitment be strengthened, especially for the women who are listening to us, for the citizens of europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the committee for the work it has done to approve this report by a very large majority, on which the house will be voting tomorrow, because it points to a path of certain interest to fishermen in the adriatic and ionian seas, but above all it represents a milestone in the reasoning that is to be introduced with regard to the whole of the mediterranean. first of all, the context in which this report is set is one in which the european commission is working on a maritime strategy for the adriatic sea, and that is that through a communication last november, based on a push from the adriatic countries, certain italian regions and croatia, which has just joined the european union determined the need to have an overall strategy on the maritime policies of this macro-region. this report fits into that framework, because it captures in substance some peculiarities of this sea, which i shall speak about in a moment. the other important context in which this report is being made - and it is therefore important that parliament approves it tomorrow - is that we are in the midst of the launching of the new fisheries policy: the european parliament will vote on the reform within the year, and the new seven-year period for the european fisheries and maritime fund will begin, which will determine the resources for the development of this sector in the coming years. the context is important because this report comes at a particular moment, when it has become clear that the existing legislation for that sea is too general to be able to regulate the issues of this defined maritime area as a whole. the adriatic, unlike the mediterranean, is a closed sea, where economic problems coexist which are totally different from those of the rest of the mediterranean. there is a different type of seabed, different fishing practices, a different history and tradition, a totally different system of international relations from the rest of the mediterranean. we are facing a sea of enclosure, with three countries that are part of europe - italy, slovenia and croatia - and three other countries with other rules and a different kind of mechanism, yet so close and so connected in terms of economic development. the same rules apply in all these countries as in the rest of the mediterranean. this is a serious limitation, because any action by the european union is likely to be in vain. the application of the control regulation on this sea is in vain, as is the effectiveness of the protection of existing fishery resources, which leads to a substantial impoverishment of fisheries and very often to a very strong economic and social burden. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the first: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second: the rules cannot be generic and apply to the whole of europe because there are objective differences. in conclusion, mr president, all this is being channelled into the process which is being set up in the whole sector, namely that of a pushed-forward regionalisation, if we really want the rules to be general and their application to be local. i think this report is an important milestone for the commission.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to thank rapporteur sánchez presedo and all the shadow rapporteurs because together we have worked closely to draw up a document on a more effective and efficient banking system. i also welcome the agreement reached with the council after several months of difficult negotiations - as my colleagues have also acknowledged - which will regulate the mortgage system for the first time at european level. let us not forget that the financial crisis began with the bursting of a housing bubble in the united states, where mortgages were issued without sufficient controls and consumers were encouraged to take excessive risks. we have seen similar situations in europe, with huge repercussions both for the financial system and for the real economy. the directive we are about to vote on today will help to put an end to these excesses and to encourage responsible lending practices. it represents the first step towards a european mortgage market without upsetting systems that have proven to work well. so, our work was on two axes: on the one hand, we have avoided the foreclosure of banking and, on the other, we have protected the interests of consumers. we have also been able to avoid over-regulation which would have stiffened the credit market. the aim we have pursued has been to regulate better, because the consumer must be protected and placed in the best possible conditions with regard to information and clarity of procedures. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner barnier, in view of the current economic situation, the slow recovery and the signals coming from the markets, i believe it is quite urgent that the directive should enter into force as soon as possible in order to increase consumer confidence and to achieve a more reliable and secure european mortgage market.
answer to a blue-card question. i think that mr andreas schwab, the lead rapporteur, has also said that. of course, laws are not perfect. but if we try to produce a perfect law, we risk not legislating at all. we have made a great step forward by implementing for the first time a system of mortgages at european level. it will not be the panacea for all problems, but we have certainly begun to put pieces together on an issue which, at european level with 20 different systems, was a gene pool. everything can be improved and the conditions for improvement exist because the lead rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs have worked together in an approach free of prejudice and false ideologies in order to achieve the common good. if the colleague is also interested in the common good, there is no prejudice on our part.
in writing. the taking out of a mortgage is one of the most important financial decisions in life: it involves a financial commitment that could last for decades. in 2008, the stock of residential mortgages in the eu-27 was almost eur 6 trillion, or about 50% of eu gdp. the mortgage market is of vital importance to the millions of european citizens who are currently paying off a mortgage and to would-be homeowners. household indebtedness is rising across europe. this is not in itself a sign of irresponsible lending and borrowing, provided that borrowing levels are sustainable and repayments can be made. the difficulty of making repayments has, however, led to an increase in default rates and foreclosures. the data are influenced by factors other than the irresponsible granting and taking out of loans, such as the general economic downturn. however, statistical data, together with qualitative evidence from stakeholders and actual cases observed across europe, show that this is not just a cyclical or limited problem, but an eu-wide problem. we do not consider it a "common evil half enjoyed" but a problem that we must contain as soon as possible, united.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 september 2013 at 12.00 hours. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i just wanted to make a technical correction. the report was drawn up before 1 july this year, and croatia is therefore listed as a future member country, which is correct because it is now a full member of the european union.
in writing. − following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, regulation (ec) no 850/98 on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms needed to be brought into line with the new rules of the tfeu. i therefore considered it appropriate, after assessing the content of the proposed amendments, to vote in favour of the commission's proposal to reclassify the powers conferred on it into delegated and implementing measures, as required by the rules laid down in articles 290 to 291 tfeu. it is important to emphasise that the proposed amendments relate only to the types of acts to be adopted and do not alter the content of the measures introduced by the regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation which gives registered partnerships the right to choose the law applicable to their property regime. it aims at broad consistency with the matrimonial property regime regulation and deviates from it only to the extent necessary to remedy problems which might be raised by a choice of the law applicable to registered unions. an obligation to provide advice is also laid down. although partners who intend to make a choice of the applicable law have generally been informed and in particular the parties involved are usually very well informed of their rights, the requirement for legal advice is intended to meet the specific need for protection. if, for example, in a member state special formal requirements for the choice of the applicable law apply, which guarantee the advice, the requirement of advice is already deemed to be satisfied in this way.
in writing. - i did not support the thein report on the proposal for a council regulation on the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. the italian law does not recognise this type of union and the property consequences of its dissolution should therefore not affect our territory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's position on the proposal for a regulation on the capital adequacy of registered partnerships. in fact, more and more families are deciding not to marry and opting for civil unions, and at the same time mobility is increasing. it was therefore necessary to provide a clear legislative framework on the competent court, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of acts. i believe that, together with the other proposal for a regulation on the matrimonial property regime, this vote will make a real contribution to overcoming legal uncertainty and, above all, the considerable differences in the national laws of the member states.
in writing. - the data at european level on this subject obliges parliament to give serious thought to the matter. it is clear that there is a need for action and we must take advantage of the opportunity we have at this moment to improve the legal situation of the couples concerned. the institution of registered unions is evolving, and with the increase in the mobility of people in europe the number of persons concerned is increasing. the rapporteur's proposal is supported precisely because it proposes a clear regulation which allows registered unions to choose the law applicable to their system and, above all, facilitates the final choice.
in writing. − while registered non-marriage partnerships are admitted in many of the member states, there is no clear legal basis at european level on which to determine which member stateʼs applicable laws should be chosen when, in the event of the separation of the partnership, disputed property involves more than one member state. therefore, legislative action is required to fill this gap and provide eu citizens with greater legal certainty. as freedom to choose applicable laws based on nationality and residence is part of the fundamental right of citizens, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the aim of the thein report is to establish a clear legal regime to define the jurisdiction and the law applicable to the property rights of registered couples and to matrimonial property regimes. after lengthy and elaborate negotiations, a compromise amendment was reached to accommodate the positions of the european agency for human rights and the member states opposed to provisions concerning the property effects of registered couples, who are allowed to choose the applicable law. at the same time, it will not be compulsory to transpose the community provisions for those member states which do not provide for the institute in their legal systems.
mr president, there are 16 million binational couples in the european union or living in a country other than their own. this situation gives rise to legal difficulties due to the uncertainty of the law applicable to the matrimonial property regime, especially in the event of divorce or death of one of the spouses, since the laws of the member states differ considerably in this area. providing citizens with certainty and clarity as to the applicable law and choice of court is an important step for judicial cooperation in civil matters and a valuable tool to avoid lengthy and costly procedures which arise precisely from conflicts of jurisdiction and insufficient knowledge and awareness of the applicable legislation.
mr president, as mrs angelilli has also mentioned, this report is certainly very important because it is concerned with the issue of the disparity between legislation and reports which should instead see the european union acting with a more uniform line: the property relations resulting from marital relations are one of the critical points of the regulatory differences between the various member states. i have asked to speak in the "speech" part, above all to remind you that marriage between spouses from different countries leads to far more specific and serious problems, namely those concerning the regulation of relations with children who, when their parents separate within the european union, suffer from very uncomfortable conditions due to legislation which does not take into account the principles of the european union itself. i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to this problem.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the thein report on the proposal for a council regulation on the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial property regimes. i found this text very balanced because it dealt in a balanced way with the consequences of the dissolution of 'cross-border' marriages, a problem that is increasingly felt by citizens, as evidenced by the 16 million marriages celebrated in 2007 between citizens of different member states.
in writing. − the number of international marriages that have ended because of divorce or bereavement is exorbitant in the union: 637 thousand. it was therefore urgent and necessary to put in place a legislative framework which would provide legal certainty and overcome the many differences in the national laws of the member states. we have certainly made a valuable contribution to this by voting for it. we cannot ignore phenomena which are present in our own reality and which have a strong impact on the lives of european citizens. in this way we also make our electors understand that europe has an important value because it is able to make a serious contribution to improving their lives, even more so when it comes to the delicate and difficult moments of the individual.
in writing. - the report deals with the subject of marriages involving people from different eu countries. since the report contains some revision amendments to deal more fairly with the dissolution of 'cross-border' marriages and because of the usefulness of these proposals, i voted in favour.
in writing. the starting point is that the law of the member states on property regimes differs considerably, as do the rules on jurisdiction. european citizens concerned by this issue are therefore faced with complex questions, especially as regards the applicable law and the choice of court. it may happen that the competent judicial authority of one member state takes a different view of the same case from that of the competent authority of another state. this situation triggers a race to the bottom to receive the best treatment. there is no doubt that the european court system needs to be uniformed in such a way as to provide a universally valid judgment.
mr president, i am in favour of this text, which is aimed at improving the use of technology in the transport sector, making it increasingly sustainable in line with the commitments required by the europe 2020 strategy. new technologies offer enormous business opportunities for our companies, because reducing emissions in a sensible and non-oppressive way means investing in research and development. unfortunately, europe is losing ground to competition from third countries - i am thinking, for example, of japanese manufacturers, who are leaders in the field of hybrid cars. the market for low-impact technologies is expected to grow much more, but it is necessary to adapt european networks to the intelligent use of green energy and low environmental impact, for example by creating an adequate number of electricity distributors. the market for environmentally-friendly energy, valued at €1.2 trillion in 2007, is estimated to reach a value of over €3 trillion by 2020.
in writing. − the union's main objectives include reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, the number of accidents and land use. achieving these objectives would help to improve the health and quality of life of european citizens. in the light of these considerations, i stress the need to make the european transport technology strategy as efficient as possible in order to reap the economic, environmental and social benefits that will boost sustainable growth and job creation. i also believe that in this context small and mediumsized enterprises deserve special attention and that they should be given better opportunities in the field of research, in particular by simplified access procedures and by reducing the administrative burden when applying for european funding. i share the rapporteur's concern that the union may lose its leading role in research and technology to international competitors. i call on the commission to intensify its efforts in terms of coordination between the member states in order to make efficient use of the results of transport research and to encourage their dissemination and application in the internal market.
in writing. - my colleagues in the ppe group and i have approved this resolution because we believe that it is strategic for the future of europe to arrive at a uniform plan in the field of transport technology. it is urgently necessary to make the european transport technology strategy as efficient as possible in order to reap economic, environmental and social benefits, boosting sustainable growth and job creation. the union's competitiveness could also be boosted by research projects that take into account 'full-cycle commitments'. the potential of integrated information and ticketing programmes, allowing the application of the technologies throughout europe, needs to be further explored. the european transport technology strategy should also give priority to r&i that supports easy, sustainable and safe mobility for the most vulnerable citizens.
in writing. − a strategic approach to transport is one of the prerequisites for the sustainable development of european economies. as the effects of the economic crisis persist, a more efficient and coherent use of both the results of research in the field and national or european funds can be an opportunity to revive economic growth, create jobs and build a modern european transport system capable of meeting consumer expectations. in addition, in order to effectively integrate the results of research and innovation in the construction of this transport system, the european union and the member states need to ensure easier access to finance for smes operating in this field. they have the capacity to provide the necessary support to modernise and maintain a high level of competitiveness in european transport. last but not least, i believe it is equally important to take the road safety imperative very seriously.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. although this is a non-legislative dossier, i think the political statements contained in it are important: i believe that environmental policy should not be made by imposing restrictions and giving up progress, but by using what we have wisely. in this particular case, i am referring to the fact that luddism would lead nowhere, whereas predicting the main aspects of future mobility and the rate of development of technologies can lead to planning that avoids waste and leads us to be rational in the exploitation of resources. sustainable lifestyles are, in my view, a basic concept for reconciling environmental protection with the human requirements of economic, social and technological progress. i congratulate the rapporteur and the group of shadow rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done and on the balance of the compromise amendments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on a european transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility, as i believe it will help to reduce energy consumption, air pollutants and traffic noise. this is also to be done by encouraging the use of new efficient technologies and by developing a genuine common transport policy that ensures adequate connections within the regions of europe. i also believe that more support should be given to the r & i activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular by facilitating access to eu funds and reducing administrative burdens, and i stress the importance of creating and maintaining jobs and sustainable growth through r & i.
in writing. the report addresses the collapse of the transport sector, particularly the maritime sector, saying that it is caused by the insufficient commitment the eu is making to renewable energy. i believe that one of the causes of the crisis and the collapse of the competitiveness of this sector is due to the increasing and unfair competition with the asian and middle eastern economies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the debate at eu level on future mobility trends is particularly strong on the need to ensure transport systems that are more sustainable in terms of the environment, health and quality of life for citizens. the eu has set itself ambitious targets for reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, the number of accidents and land use: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new transport policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new transport policy. the challenges are still many, but i hope that this report can be a step forward in the pursuit of a more sustainable european transport.
in writing. − through the discussion and support of the report on the european transport technology strategy for the future sustainable mobility of europe, we wanted to highlight our commitment to achieving the europe 2020 goals. it is undeniable that these objectives have become more difficult to achieve as the global economic situation has worsened, but this does not mean that the eu and its member states must not continue to take decisive legislative action to adopt measures to reduce the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and of those substances which pollute the environment. the automotive industry, and the transport sector in general, has already made some progress towards these objectives. i therefore believe that the call to continue and invest in research to implement europe's future sustainable mobility is appropriate.
in writing. − we are convinced that only by achieving the union's objectives in terms of reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, the number of accidents and land use can we limit the impact of transport on climate change and contribute to improving the health and quality of life of the citizens of the european union. we agree with the rapporteur who, in his report, which has been adopted today, has stressed the urgency of making the european transport technology strategy as efficient as possible, with the aim of deriving economic, environmental and social benefits from it, and of stimulating sustainable growth and job creation. we therefore strongly support the launch of a new transport research and technological development policy to contribute to better spatial planning, new communication strategies and new behavioural approaches, helping to promote easy, sustainable and safe mobility for all european citizens, especially the most vulnerable.
in writing. i have expressed my favourable opinion on mr cramer's report on the development of a european transport technology strategy for the future of sustainable mobility in europe, because i believe it is important to encourage national and regional authorities to make efficient use of the resources available. the use of european funds in transport infrastructure needs to be improved by researching new possible technologies that make investments more effective. emphasising the importance of using new technologies and finding solutions that limit the environmental impact of new infrastructure, alongside projects for new means of transport, is of key importance for improving sustainable mobility in the union.
in writing. - the proposal is that transportation technologies within and between regions in europe benefit all european citizens. therefore i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the european parliament is also showing its presence in the field of specific research for the development of future mobility in the european union. innovation in transport must be used to drastically reduce energy consumption and air pollutants, which are essential to limiting the impact of climate change and contributing to improving the health and quality of life of citizens.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against the report by mr cramer because it does not pay enough attention to the collapse of the european maritime system which is directly attributable to the financial crisis and the lack of adequate protection by the union and national governments for european maritime companies. the rapporteur, instead of identifying the causes of this collapse in the crisis of traditional industry, expresses an unjustified and arbitrary confidence in the potential of green energy which, in his view, should revive the entire european transport sector and consequently also increase employment and investment.
in writing. − developing a european transport technology strategy for the future of sustainable european mobility is an investment that europe cannot afford to lose. in addition to improving the quality of life, services and health of citizens by meeting the commitments made under the europe 2020 strategy, this text aims to stimulate investment in research and development, facilitating europe's recovery so that it becomes more competitive with those countries that are achieving important milestones in sustainable technology and innovation. the commercial opportunities that efficient and low-impact transport technologies offer our companies are enormous. it is clear that for a positive success we also need a synergistic design of our energy networks. i believe it is important that the whole chain of innovation and sustainable development in europe includes all the actors directly and indirectly involved in the sector. it is also essential that these efforts promote the inclusion of smes so that they can receive administrative facilities for funding schemes and the development of innovative research.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the development of a european transport technology strategy for europe's future sustainable mobility because it promotes objectives that help to limit the impact of transport on climate change. it also provides economic, environmental and social benefits, boosting sustainable growth and job creation.
in writing. the cramer report refers to the european commission's recent communication on a european strategy for sustainable mobility. i voted in favour because the objectives set out in the text (including reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions) are designed to limit the impact of transport on climate change and thus contribute to improving the health and quality of life of european citizens.
mr president, in expressing my enthusiasm for the aims of the directive in question, i have decided to speak to draw attention to the danger that the achievement of these aims may be conditioned by bureaucratic issues, which can only be defined in terms of secondary importance. the right of access to a lawyer would not achieve the purpose of ensuring the effective exercise of the right of defence if, for reasons relating to the non-payment of the fees set by the administration of justice for the release of a copy of the investigation documents, the accused or the defendant had access to a lawyer with whom they would not be able to discuss before an examination of the probative value of the evidence of the prosecution as a result of their failure to have it due to mere economic reasons. with a view to ensuring that this requirement is met and in accordance with the principle of fairness of procedure, i would point out the need to provide, as a corollary to a text which is fully acceptable, for indications as to the need for the fees payable in respect of the production of copies of documents to be commensurate with the income of the applicant.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament has repeatedly called for the strengthening of the procedural rights of the accused and the defendant, stressing the need to strike the right balance between freedom, justice and security. some of the measures in the roadmap agreed during the swedish presidency have already been implemented. the directive on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and the directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings are among them. the proposal for a directive on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the right to be informed upon arrest is the third stage in the implementation of the roadmap. this report sets out the basic principle that all suspects and accused persons should have access to a lawyer as soon as possible, in order to enable them to exercise their rights of defence effectively. citizens must be able to count on full respect for their rights and be convinced that their security is guaranteed. i believe that this report is going in that direction and that is why i have decided to support it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliamentʼs proposal because anyone anywhere in the eu will have the right of access to a lawyer as soon as possible after the moment they are questioned by the police or deprived of their liberty, in order to be able to exercise their rights to defence. i believe that all european citizens must have the security of knowing they benefit from the same guarantees in all member states. in addition, thanks to this proposal, in a change to current proceedings in many eu countries, the suspectʼs or detaineeʼs lawyer will be entitled to play an active role and intervene during the questioning, including where people are suspected of being involved in terrorist activity.
in writing. - the excellent work behind the report, for which i am voting in favour, reminds me of burke's famous maxim that when liberty and justice are separated, both are in danger. parliament is working towards both of these objectives by strengthening the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons. it is undeniable that the provisions of the european convention and the case law of the european court of human rights are not uniformly respected, and indeed there are some worrying delays due to different reasons. i think that the coordinated text, in its preamble, proposes a balanced compromise: i refer in particular to paragraphs 11c, 11d, 11e and 12e, which contain convincing declarations and definitions of the procedural rights of the defence. the following points 12 and 13 are part of the common minimum standards which are useful in increasing confidence in the integrity and fairness of criminal justice systems, as is the following point 27 which recovers a uniform case law of the european court of human rights. as the latest eurobarometer survey on justice shows, our citizens would like to know more about their rights: i believe that this is one of the areas where the rights of european citizenship need to be implemented most urgently.
in writing. the right to defence is a fundamental right of the citizen and an essential element for ensuring democracy within our societies. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is right and appropriate to reaffirm the principle that an accused or an accused person has the right to have access to a lawyer as soon as possible, so as to enable them to exercise their right to a defence. the defence, in fact, ensures the contradictory and, therefore, the ascertainment of the truth in the most just way possible.
in writing. − given the diversity of legal and procedural frameworks in the different member states, i voted in favour of the compromise reached, namely the introduction of minimum eu-wide rules on the right of access to a lawyer for suspects and accused persons and on the right to be informed at the time of arrest. this directive will ensure a uniform application of these basic principles, which are fundamental for citizens to be able to exercise their rights of defence effectively, and will require member states to ensure, at the implementation stage, a level of protection of these rights at least equal to that enshrined in the echr and the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. − the european parliament has always supported the need to ensure greater protection of the rights of victims of crime on the one hand and of suspects or accused persons on the other, strongly urging the introduction of an ambitious legal instrument on procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings. despite the existence of common principles and minimum standards deriving from both the echr and the eu charter, existing provisions in this area continue to vary significantly between member states. we regret that the provisions of the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights are not uniformly applied and respected by the member states, with the result that there are divergent rules within the european union. in adopting this report, we are calling for the strengthening of the procedural rights of the accused and the defendant, stressing the need to strike the right balance between freedom, justice and security. european citizens must be able to count on full respect for their rights, be convinced that their safety is guaranteed when travelling and be aware that they enjoy the same guarantees in all member states.
in writing. - i supported this resolution which enshrines the basic principle that all suspects and accused persons should have access to a lawyer as soon as possible and in a manner which allows the effective exercise of their rights of defence. such rights must be ensured before the commencement of any interrogation, when procedural documents or evidence are taken and in the event of deprivation of liberty. the proposal also sets out the content of the right, stresses that meetings between the accused and his lawyer should be confidential, lists the exceptions to the general principles and provides for certain rules in the event of waiver of the right to a lawyer. finally, it recognizes the right to an interpreter, a right which has become indispensable since the freedom of movement of european citizens.
in writing. − the rights of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings in the european union are fundamental rights guaranteed by the eu charter and the european court of human rights. the text just voted defines definitively the minimum rights guaranteed for access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings; common minimum standards strengthening the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons. all eu countries will therefore have to guarantee access to a lawyer, the possibility for the accused to converse privately with the latter and the possibility of communicating with a third party at the time of arrest, thus strengthening the rights of the defence in criminal proceedings.
in writing. − the right of access to a lawyer is an essential part of the core rights enshrined by the european convention on human rights and the eu charter of fundamental rights. in the absence of further enhancements of regulations, however, it is hard to ensure that such rights are protected in practice, especially in criminal procedures. common minimum standards regarding the right of access to a lawyer and the right to communicate in the event of arrest not only promote mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters, but also prevent coercion on the part of the investigating authorities, ensure equality of arms between prosecution and defence, and reduce miscarriages of justice, which benefits our community. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the right to be informed when arrested, because access to an effective defence in criminal proceedings is a key moment for eu legal policy. the proposal also seeks to adopt a horizontal and global instrument, proposing a gradual, less ambitious and more realistic approach.
in writing. the proposal for a directive lays down minimum standards at community level, such as the basic principle that all suspects and accused persons should have access to a lawyer as soon as possible and in a manner which allows the effective exercise of their rights of defence. in any event, such rights must be ensured before the commencement of any questioning, where documents relating to the proceedings are opened. in implementing the directive, uniformity will be ensured: in any event, member states may not provide for rules which ensure less protection than that provided for by the convention and the eu charter of fundamental rights, as interpreted in the case-law of the european court of human rights.
mr president, we need quality legislation to strengthen consumer protection both at the contractual and pre-contractual stages. customers should receive all the information from intermediaries in order to conclude a contract in an informed and prudent manner. to further protect the client, the directive provides for the granting of authorization to intermediaries based on the possession of harmonised professional requirements. i agree with the rapporteur that mortgages are the most important long-term financial commitment of a family. often it is a matter of sacrificing a life. consider that mortgages are essential to access real estate in 70 percent of cases.
mr president, the proposal for a directive aims to harmonize the subject of consumer loans for the purchase of residential property and mortgage loans. the measures aimed at protecting consumers are to be regarded as positive. this is done by defining a minimum set of information which must be exchanged between the potential customer and the intermediaries in order to reach an informed and prudent conclusion of the contract through the introduction of the granting of an authorization based on the possession of requirements of professionalism and honesty. i have decided to vote in favour of the measures contained in the report, but i would like to express my doubts as to whether the report can at the same time be an effective instrument against the financial crisis. i do not think that an internal market for residential property loans is possible, since the markets have a strong local footprint and local advice is needed. the crossborder demand is rather low and there are considerable language barriers, not to mention the difficulties arising from the profound differences between the legal systems of the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive on mortgage loans because it lays the foundations for a genuine european mortgage market. at the same time, it preserves systems that have so far proven to work very well. the final document, which was the result of lengthy negotiations with the council and the european commission, sets in motion a process of credit market integration which can be further developed in the future. the importance of regulation is clear to all, especially when one considers that the bursting of the housing bubble in the united states was the very cause of the economic crisis that continues to this day. it was the lack of controls on the credit system that triggered the crisis, and the european union's effort in recent years has been precisely to improve the efficiency, resilience and transparency of the system, while ensuring greater protection for consumers.
in writing. - i supported the sánchez-presedo report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on credit agreements relating to residential immovable property. i agree with the text which proposes greater control and transparency in the mortgage market to better protect european citizens by guaranteeing transparency and information to consumers and by imposing on credit institutions the obligation to monitor and ensure that contractors do not take on excessive financial risks.
in writing. - i voted to postpone the final decision on this very delicate proposal for a directive. we cannot afford to make hasty mistakes when the protection of mortgage claimants is at stake. in particular, at this time of tight credit, the competent institutions must protect the rights of those who want to take risks and who need loans to do so. i am in favour of the whole proposal. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. however, the internal market aspect cannot be underestimated. i therefore asked for a little more time so that we could also reach agreement on the comparative tables.
in writing. - the purchase of a home of one's own is the dream of every citizen, and it is therefore right that there should be the best conditions for this to be realized. however, we must not forget the problems that have arisen in recent years with the granting of "rainy" loans, often without the slightest guarantees. but we have gone from one extreme to the other, and today for many young people, perhaps with precarious jobs, it is becoming impossible even to enter the real estate market. we cannot ignore the problems of the difficulties of paying the instalments of a mortgage due to the crisis: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. some spanish regions have already moved in this direction: i hope that others, like italy, will follow this path because we cannot forget that we must first protect the people, and then the interests of the banks. what ?
in writing. − after lengthy negotiations with the council and the european commission, agreement was reached last may on the final text for the directive on credit agreements relating to residential immovable property. the main objective of the text, for which i was the shadow rapporteur for the epp, was to ensure greater consumer protection without burdening the credit system with greater burdens and costs. in the econ committee we avoided over-regulation which would only have blocked the credit market, and we also strongly insisted on quality regulation rather than quantity to avoid a situation similar to the 2008 housing bubble. this is a first decisive step towards a european mortgage market, which introduces a number of new features: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by credit institutions, such as eu-wide harmonisation of pre-contractual information, a general right to early termination, a credit assessment not based solely on automatic mechanisms, a seven-day cooling-off period and stricter regulation for credit intermediaries. now, in order to approve the final legislative text, we are only waiting for the final arrangements with the council.
in writing. - under the new rules, the contractor who wants a loan in foreign currency will have to be informed prior to the signing of the contract that the amount of the instalments to be paid may increase. alternatively, the borrower may be allowed to change the currency, under certain conditions and at the exchange rate specified in the loan agreement. it is also considered that buyers should be able to benefit from a seven-day cooling-off period before taking out a loan or from the same period of time to exercise the right of withdrawal even after the contract has been concluded. housing is a primary value and i believe it is essential to help european citizens to prevent and support difficulties in buying.
in writing. the sanchez-presedo report, which lays the foundations for a european mortgage market, concerns the conditions applicable to creditors and credit intermediaries, the competent authorities and the supervisory requirements (which need to be strengthened in a manner consistent with the new european supervisory system). the main objective of parliament was to ensure greater consumer protection without burdening the credit system with greater burdens and costs, and avoiding over-regulation which would have the effect of blocking the credit market. the most important new features include harmonisation at community level of pre-contractual information, a general right to early termination, a credit assessment not based solely on automatic mechanisms, a seven-day cooling-off period and stricter regulation for credit intermediaries.
mr president, this proposal for a directive substantially revises the adm directive on internal market abuse, seeking to fill in the gaps and increase investor confidence and market integrity. the implantation generated by the proposal is certainly positive. however, it is in relation to the sanctions to be applied that we have seen the most heated debates between member states and between council and parliament. i would hope that the trilogues would seek to achieve greater harmonization of the penal system in line with, among other things, the position expressed by parliament. the time limit for exercising the option contained in the compromise, which is 24 months from the entry into force of the regulation, is considered satisfactory. however, i hope that the commission will assess the need for greater harmonisation of the member states' sanctioning regimes in the short term, otherwise i doubt that sanctions at eu level will be effective, dissuasive and proportionate in all member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs mccarthy's report on insider dealing and market manipulation. i agree with the rapporteur's hard line, which calls for stricter sanctions for those who distort the market to their own advantage.
in writing. - in the public imagination, the financial sector is one of the last in terms of perceived morality. there is a widespread misconception that finance does not create value, that the so-called "paper economy" is only for making money and getting rich without taking risks. these commonplaces, besides being patently false, are a brake on the bond of trust between savers and fund managers and risk jeopardising the integrity of the entire european financial system. i therefore believe that it is very important to monitor the financial markets as well as the markets for goods, services and labour, in order to detect abuses on the one hand and to detect and discourage abusive tendencies on the other. i voted in favour of this measure because it goes exactly in this direction: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
in writing. - it is undeniable that financial markets are a jungle in which it is very difficult to venture, especially if there are some players who play a dirty game, i.e. artificially manipulating data and abusing yield positions. this european regulation should serve precisely to prevent and, where appropriate, to punish such illegal behaviour, which is a real financial crime. market participants need to be fully aware of the nature of their investments, including the risks, in order to have a complete picture and to manage their choices in the best way. unfortunately, in the past, even in recent times, there have been too many instances of insider trading and market manipulation, to the point where, for example, the libor limit case, the benchmark rate governing interbank lending, has been found to have been artificially manipulated for several years. these fraudulent actions are causing significant economic damage and are also contributing to casting further shadows on a financial sector in which confidence has already been at a low ebb for some time: the solution to a healthy market is to ensure that the actors in it are completely fair, and that is my wish in supporting this report.
in writing. - i supported this resolution; the market abuse directive (mad) 2003/6/ec introduced a comprehensive regulatory framework to deal with 'market abuse' (insider dealing and market manipulation) practices. the proposal extends the scope of the market abuse framework to all financial instruments covered by the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) in order to strengthen market integrity and investor protection, while ensuring a single regulatory text and a level playing field. while more than 80% of the emission allowance market is a derivative market, the new market abuse regulation aims to extend market protection to the primary market in order to avoid fraudulent practices that could undermine confidence in the ets. if ets allowances are reclassified as financial instruments in the context of the review of the mifid directive and fall within the scope of the market abuse framework, it is clear that some provisions need to be adapted in view of the specificity of those instruments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal so that legal certainty and clarity can be promoted to help combat market manipulation and insider dealing, which worsens the competitiveness and transparency of the market and harms the interests of european consumers and legal producers. it is parliamentʼs responsibility to provide a legal basis for the union and member states to properly regulate the market to ensure it functions well. thus, regulations should be made at european level to hold infringers accountable by discouraging behaviour that reduces market competitiveness and transparency, through punishment by judicial authorities and enhancing the competent authoritiesʼ access to relevant information channels.
in writing. - the legislation adopted today in strasbourg by a large majority introduced stricter sanctions for those who manipulate financial markets in order to ensure greater protection for european investors. the vote will mean that companies found guilty of market abuse will be liable to very high fines of up to 15% of their annual turnover. the same treatment will also be reserved for individuals guilty of the same offence, to which will be added a temporary ban on working with investment firms. i am therefore pleased with today's vote and hope that it will be part of the process of european economic development towards a stable and prosperous market economy.
in writing. - in the light of the negotiations currently taking place between the commission, parliament and the council on the common fisheries policy, i think that the position we voted for, namely that at this stage it is inappropriate or at least imprudent to amend the regulation, is acceptable. the adoption of a new regulation on the subject will also have a direct impact on technical measures in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound and therefore the proposed changes to the current status may not be in line with the provisions of the new basic regulation. in this connection, we hope that the commission will draw up a new draft regulation on the use of the technical measures after the publication of the text of the basic regulation to ensure legal certainty and avoid unnecessary work.
in writing. - it is not appropriate, with a view to the adoption of a new regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common fisheries policy, to go beyond the mere adaptation of regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 to the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon. it is right to ask the commission to propose a new draft regulation on this subject at the latest within one year of the publication of the regulation on the common fisheries policy.
mr president, so many small and weak national markets cannot end europe's energy dependence. thinking small means limiting the number of suppliers, making prices uncompetitive and providing services of poor quality. on the other hand, this is the picture of our energy market. i therefore welcome the report by mr buzek, which links the single market to the implementation of crossborder regional projects in accordance with an approach which looks at the real industrial, infrastructural and morphological make-up of the regions, and not at the barriers between national markets. in this respect too, mr president, national price support policies must be abolished, to give oxygen and competitiveness to this sector, which is a very important step: the single european energy market must remain a priority objective.
mr president, the buzek report stresses the importance of completing the single energy market. we know very well how much the cost of energy affects our competitiveness, but it is enough to point out that we are 50 per cent dependent on sources in other countries. in his report, mr buzek sets out a recipe which is entirely acceptable to all, starting with the full implementation, or rather the full transposition by all the member states, of the third energy package, and which, in short, provides for a policy which ensures that consumers are better informed about the costs and benefits of an internal energy market, greater clarity in national and european legislation, more modern infrastructure and therefore more investment. i hope that parliament's vote will enable the commission and the member states to take up this strong appeal.
mr president, mr buzek's report sets the course for completing an open, competitive, integrated and consumer-oriented internal energy market. in this context, the connecting europe facility plays a very important role, as it will give priority to infrastructure projects that can achieve internal market integration, in particular by encouraging the development of renewable sources, the creation of the necessary cross-border interconnections and security of supply. in order for europe to reduce its energy dependence, actions to support self-production from renewable sources will have to be implemented, with investment in the distribution network through the widespread development of networks and smart meters.
mr president, when mr buzek was president of our parliament, he organized meetings on this subject between us european parliamentarians and colleagues from the national parliaments, meetings in which i participated with great conviction. i therefore fully support this report, since its main objective is to create a fully integrated european single energy market, where prices are transparent, including the specification of excise duties and environmental costs. today in europe there are unacceptable differences in the price of energy, which vary too much from one country to another. for example, in italy, the cost of electricity for businesses is 130% higher than that paid by a french or polish industry and 80% higher than that paid by a german industry. it is clear that such disparities lead to unfair competition within the common market. just think of an energy-intensive industry whose costs are burdened by electricity for 30 percent of the total. think how much cheaper it would be for you to leave italy and move, perhaps to america, where the cost is even 400 percent lower!
mr president, the watchwords for households and businesses must be accessibility and sustainable prices. other colleagues said so: gas in europe costs four times as much as in the united states, and energy twice as much. households pay for energy costs from 7 to 20 percent. companies, especially energy-intensive ones, have prohibitive energy costs and are therefore at risk of closing down or moving outside the european union, where energy costs are much lower. the priority for the recovery of the european economy and enterprises is therefore to reduce their costs in order to make them competitive. the european union needs a competitive, integrated and fluid energy market that functions effectively and flexibly and is able to address climate and energy challenges.
mr president, we share mr buzek's report in supporting the completion of the internal energy market through the construction of new infrastructure and the full harmonisation of the rules for the functioning of the markets, a challenge which is necessary to adequately support the transition to a low-carbon economy. we regret, however, that the union is not yet ready for the full realisation of the internal energy market, given the slowness of the member states in adapting national legislation and in creating competitive markets. we believe that this parliament must work to ensure that our citizens and businesses have secure and low-cost energy systems in a globalised world where we are forced to depend on third countries and are often subjected to blackmail.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report, which develops in detail the energy directives that make up the union's strategy, and in particular horizon 2020. i agree with the general picture, but on the subject of urgent measures i would like to join the recommendations in paragraph 15 on the urgency of implementing the single market to remedy the situation of disenfranchisement of consumers in many member states; 19 and 20 on the need to adapt networks and interconnections to the objectives and measures to encourage diversification of the mix; 26 on the need to base national plans and temporary measures on a criterion of consistency and legal certainty, in order to protect consumers and traders and therefore the integrity of investments; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the requirements of the treaty. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the single market, which stresses the need for strong measures for the effective implementation of eu rules on the matter, in particular the third package, with effective monitoring of countries in relation to the single market, in the areas of production, flexibility, interoperability, access for operators, competition and consumer rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr buzek because i believe that the completion of the internal energy market is an essential element in the realisation of the single european market which is the objective of most community policies. i share the rapporteur's call for the commitments made for 2014 to be respected, and in particular for the common energy strategy to be geared to reducing costs, both for individual users and for businesses, especially smes. the cost of energy is a major obstacle to recovery and a serious handicap in relation to our international competitors.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. the european smes are suffering while waiting for the good intentions expressed in this report to materialize. it is not possible that the costs of inefficient networks and obsolete technologies should be borne not by those responsible for them but by those downstream, in particular the companies that need energy to produce. the resulting loss of competitiveness is one of the issues that the european institutions must tackle and solve. the removal of all obstacles to the internal energy market is and must remain a priority: this is one of the textbook examples of how the european union, by combining similar needs, can harness economies of scale and create critical mass to be able to change contract terms, as well as find the resources to make those much-needed investments in efficiency. the rapporteur and the commissioner should therefore be congratulated on their lucid and timely analysis, underpinned by a clear and shareable political message: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and if they're missing, it's good to provide them. our businesses and our consumers thank you.
in writing. − the completion of the internal energy market is a key element. i have supported the report because it responds to the pressing needs of european consumers and businesses, who could obtain, through the application of the measures it provides for, a reduction in production costs. more attention to consumer needs, technological innovation, better infrastructure, market opening and diversification of energy sources and supplier countries: these are the issues that need to be addressed at european level if we are to achieve greater market transparency and more competitive energy prices.
in writing. - energy is the basis of production and growth and is essential for economic and industrial development, so it is essential to have a market which is accessible and which can offer the best conditions to consumers, whether they are individuals, households or businesses. the latter, for example, are penalized or benefited by energy costs which vary significantly within the same european countries, and this is not acceptable in a single market with very strict rules and constraints. unfortunately, italy has the negative side of having one of the most expensive energy markets on the continent, and this is a very heavy burden on our economy. a genuine and effective single energy market could be a solution to these imbalances, provided it is achieved with clear rules and the benefits accrue to end users. consumers are often cited in the report as the focal point for action and the guiding principle for all choices: i can only agree with that, of course, but i would like the real benefits for users to be really significant, not as happened unfortunately with the liberalisation of the italian energy market, the benefits of which are still hard to see.
in writing. - i have supported this resolution with a wish: the commission's proposal is to ensure that national governments, businesses and citizens are convinced that the internal market offers them the greatest possible benefits, which is not the case at present. i understand them, the production market is still highly concentrated: in eight member states, more than 80% of energy production is still controlled by the former monopolist. in a well-functioning energy market, which ideally solves the issue of externalities, investments in production should be driven by market considerations rather than subsidies. the energy sector is generally perceived as operating in markets that are not transparent or open to new entrants, including demand-side service providers. energy efficiency cannot rely on economically rational investment, or at least not to a sufficient extent. consumer satisfaction is low, even in member states whose energy markets are already fairly competitive.
in writing. - 2014 is the deadline set by the european union for the creation of an internal energy market. energy efficiency must ensure savings and maximum use of available resources with the aim of avoiding waste by ensuring safe access to energy products at reasonable prices for households and businesses. the european commission has prepared an official communication to urge member states to harmonise their national legislation in order to achieve the 2014 target of the official opening of the single energy market. the promotion of low-carbon technologies, cost reduction, modernisation of existing energy systems and competition in markets are the basis for the implementation of these new guidelines to improve energy use in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because competition in the internal energy market ensures security of energy supply, improves consumer surplus and welfare. reducing trade barriers within the union and other unnecessary regulations that distort the market not only reduces the cost of internal transaction, but also speeds up the process of integration. a competitive, transparent, well-integrated and well-regulated energy market contributes to the well-being of european citizens; building such a market requires action by parliament and the commission.
in writing. - the european parliament today wanted to stress that an accessible and transparent internal energy market must revolve around the real interests of final consumers, whether they are individual citizens, smes or large industry. the need for accurate information to be made available in an increasingly simple and direct way is therefore a prerequisite for stimulating competition in a market which is still too often influenced by vested interests.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the buzek report, which stresses the need to meet the commitments for the completion of the internal energy market by 2014. the text stresses the importance of developing new technologies and improved infrastructure in order to achieve greater market transparency and more competitive prices.
mr president, the eu 2020 strategy is aimed at boosting energy efficiency. the 'cohesion' legislative package, currently being defined for the period 2014-2020, increases to almost double the budget foreseen to achieve the 20% energy consumption reduction target. these strategic targets, however, seem fanciful in the light of the data recorded in the period 2007-2013, during which the 5.5 billion allocated to the energy efficiency target was used only to 60 percent. in the kekuš report, parliament calls on the commission and the member states to adopt more realistic policies, which will enable local authorities and administrations, in particular, to implement the strategic policies of the european union, to achieve these objectives in practice and thus to take action with the necessary structural reforms.
mr president, the commitment of europe's regions must be geared towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, taking into account local specificities and conditions and allowing them sufficient flexibility to focus on energy sources that are best suited to local conditions and resources, in order to achieve the objectives of the 2020 strategy; at the same time, the specific needs of european citizens in each member state must also be taken into account. it is noted that after 2015 no region in the member states should remain isolated from the european gas and electricity networks or have inadequate connections to energy networks. the creation of a single european energy market, which would allow the optimum use of renewable resources, is essential for full and uniform implementation, in line with the buzek report which was voted on this morning and which we were discussing just a few minutes ago.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague kleva kekuš because i share the strong call for cohesion policy to include specific measures that can deliver concrete results in the field of energy efficiency. this is a pressing matter of urgency which cannot and must not be ignored. in particular, i believe it is of the utmost importance that the measures taken at european, national and regional level be made consistent so that the efforts made are not wasted.
in writing. - parliament today called for a greater financial commitment, a stronger position in the context of the forthcoming legislative texts (thematic concentrations) and a clear role for energy efficiency measures in the context of implementation procedures (operational programmes). these elements constitute the three pillars of support for future cohesion policy interventions in the field of energy efficiency. improving energy efficiency is a key goal for european competitiveness. i would remind you that the cost of gas in europe is four times that in the united states. households and businesses in europe continue to bear prohibitive costs, with the consequence that many of our businesses are forced to close or relocate elsewhere. investing in greater energy efficiency means looking at the long-term and the sustainability of the european economy, both from an environmental and an energy perspective.
in writing. − the european union faces a challenging challenge to achieve its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020. we believe that improving energy efficiency is a key goal for european competitiveness and a win-win solution in the fight against climate change. investing in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, job creation, growth and encouraging the transition to a low-carbon economy. we agree with the commission that cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support for the eu to achieve its energy efficiency target and therefore propose a greater financial commitment for the coming years in this area. while negotiations on the overall multiannual dimension of the eu budget are still ongoing, it is crucial to reiterate to the member states that their commitment to a cohesion policy with adequate financial resources is essential. only with a stronger financial commitment will europe be able to achieve the energy efficiency targets it has set itself.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support for enabling the eu to achieve its energy efficiency target. the commission has responded to this challenge by proposing to at least double the share of the cohesion policy budget allocated to climate-related expenditure, including energy efficiency, for the next programming period (2014-2020). increased financial commitment, a stronger position in upcoming legislative texts (thematic concentrations) and a clear role for energy efficiency measures in the implementation procedures (operational programmes) are the three pillars of support for future cohesion policy interventions in favour of energy efficiency.
in writing. − energy efficiency has always been a core issue of the unionʼs strategy for sustainable growth. given the progress made so far, more actions are necessary to improve energy efficiency and achieve our goal of reducing overall energy consumption by 20 %. increasing the efficiency of allocation of existing funds in member states is needed urgently according to the report. as a more energy-efficient europe will eventually contribute to economic growth, benefit european energy consumers and help relieve the suffering of climate change, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to urge the commission and the member states to support energy saving in policy-making.
in writing. - this morning parliament voted on the implementation and impact of energy efficiency measures in the union. in a context of environmental pollution, it is crucial to promote energy efficiency policies that can improve not only europe's environmental conditions, facilitating the transition to a low-carbon economy, but also the competitiveness of companies in the sector, the creation of new jobs and the reduction of costs. the union is also trying to meet these demands by doubling the funds allocated to issues with obvious climate impact, such as energy efficiency. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
in writing. − the kleva report assesses the results of cohesion policy measures aimed at improving energy efficiency, proposes a set of suggestions to strengthen the impact of the measures for the next programming period and analyses the actual compatibility of european, national and regional cohesion policy objectives with energy efficiency objectives.
mr president, the need to implement a macro-regional strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas is justified by several factors, in particular the fishing effort in these waters to which three non-eu countries also have access. in order for fishing to continue to be a source of income for operators in the sector, it is essential to initiate and support maritime spatial planning for both fishing and related activities. an ecosystem approach by non-eu countries should therefore be encouraged to maintain a good ecological status of the marine environment. finally, i hope that the european commission will adopt as soon as possible an action plan to respond to the specificities of this macro-region and a regulation for the management of fisheries activities.
mr president, today's vote calls for a new community strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas. the aim is to develop sustainable activities with positive effects on the coastal community and its hinterland, taking into account the specific characteristics of this sea basin, its shape, with relatively shallow and sandy bottoms, its lagoons, islands and coastal regions. we hope that the commission will adopt as soon as possible the action plan and a specific regulation for the management of fishing activities in this macro-region, which is characterized by multi-species fishing, the use of different gears, artisanal, trawl and recreational fishing. it will be essential to promote the creation of marine protected areas aimed at the recovery of the most threatened species.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is important to establish a new eu strategy on fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic-ionian sea basin. this will give a major boost to the development of sustainable economic activities and will have a beneficial effect on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas. i also would like to emphasise that developing the aquaculture sector in the adriatic-ionian coastal regions could generate non-seasonal jobs which are heavily dependent on the summer tourist trade, giving a significant boost to employment in the area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, which is intended to stimulate smart and sustainable growth in the region. the adriatic sea and the adjacent ionian sea constitute an important marine and maritime area in europe. despite the fact that there have always been intense economic and social interactions between the neighbouring countries - now further strengthened by the eu accession process - the adriatic-ionian area has remained heterogeneous in economic, environmental and cultural terms. these countries share many resources, including fish stocks, and consequently have to deal with various issues directly or indirectly linked to the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, such as sea pollution, increased urbanisation, coastal erosion, differences in the economic development of coastal areas, etc. the european commission has recently adopted a communication proposing a maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, one of the four strategic pillars of which is the promotion of sustainable fisheries. we believe that action should be taken on this basis and we hope that the commission will adopt as soon as possible the action plan and a regulation for the management of fisheries activities in this macro-region.
in writing. - the italian regions have always fought for the recognition at european level of the peculiarities of the adriatic and ionian seas. it is a macro-region with characteristics that are completely different from the rest of the mediterranean sea, for example in terms of the structure of the seabed or the traditional fishing practices. today's result recognises the efforts of italy and neighbouring countries such as croatia and slovenia, which will result in a new community strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basin. coastal and inland communities will benefit from an approach which will ultimately allow the development of activities in the sector on the basis of the real needs of the area.
in writing. - fisheries is undoubtedly an important sector for many member states, and in particular for the seven states bordering the adriatic and ionian seas. an ad hoc strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas must not only aim to conserve and protect the marine environment and its surroundings, thereby preserving the biodiversity of the basin itself, but also to grow the fisheries and aquaculture sector in a sustainable way, while creating new jobs. today's vote is intended to ensure that a community macro-regional strategy, specific to the adriatic-ionian basin, can be adopted as soon as possible in order to safeguard and promote the adriatic and ionian seas, while fully respecting their specific geophysical configuration. only through interregional cooperation can the interests of italian fishermen be protected, their rights guaranteed and other competitors unfairly overwhelmed by their actions on the market without respecting certain criteria.
in writing. - we welcome this report which aims to promote the development of a new community strategy in the field of fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basin, with a view to making a substantial contribution to the development of sustainable activities with positive effects on coastal and inland communities. despite the existence of examples of good interregional cooperation, the problems of the region have not yet been addressed in a timely manner. some models of interregional cooperation, for which the european commission has already proposed strategies at macro-regional level, have shown that the promotion of good practices and initiatives can have a very rapid positive impact on other areas, if not on the whole region. we therefore strongly support the commission's proposal for a maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, of which the promotion of sustainable fisheries is one of the four strategic pillars. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the measures taken by the member states in the field of the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr guido milana in support of the need to develop a specific strategy for fisheries in the adriatic and ionian seas. the signs of a structural crisis in fisheries are clear in this area, and the limits of a policy that not only fails to improve the conditions of fishermen, but also fails to maintain biodiversity. it was a mistake to try to use the same strategy for areas with different characteristics. the application of generic measures without taking account of specificities has not, in the past, produced positive effects. it is therefore imperative to highlight the differences between the different areas and to adapt the application of the regulation to the particular contexts. the report presented by mr milana acknowledges the geomorphological peculiarities of the whole area and suggests a specific strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas. the document calls for closer relations with non-eu countries, in order to reconcile entrepreneurship with responsibility for protecting and preserving fish and natural resources, while making regionalization and dialogue with all stakeholders a top priority.
in writing. - the adriatic is a very important sea basin, bordering several european countries, including croatia, which has recently joined the union. the fact that different skills coexist in a virtually closed environment can create various problems and difficulties which should be resolved as soon as possible. the italian regulations are emblematic of this, forcing our vessels to remain in port to encourage the re-population of certain fishing areas, whereas these rules do not apply to croatian fishermen, for example: a common strategy should provide common rules for all, in such a way as to ensure equal opportunities. concerted action is needed both to protect fish stocks and to ensure a minimum requirement of respect and protection of the environment: the adriatic must once again be a source of employment and livelihood for the coastal communities, which have had a long tradition of centuries of fishing activity, which cannot and must not be abandoned, despite the difficulties of the period linked to very strong competition from foreign fisheries. what ?
in writing. − this report aims to promote the development of a new community strategy in the field of fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basin, with a view to making a substantial contribution to the development of sustainable activities with positive effects on coastal and inland communities. the adriatic sea and the adjacent ionian sea constitute an important marine area of interest to seven countries: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013). although there have always been intense economic and social interactions between these countries - now further strengthened by the eu accession process - the adriatic-ionian area has remained heterogeneous in economic, environmental and cultural terms.
in writing. − the adriatic-ionian macro-region is the meeting point of different economies, cultures and policies. the european union is on one side and the balkans are on the other, so it is essential to establish strategic coordination for fisheries, the ecological system and the economic and social interests of the inhabitants of these coastal areas. the main objective of the text is therefore to define an action plan with new rules for fisheries and aquaculture that will improve the socioeconomic conditions of the inhabitants of the whole region, on the part of the european union and in agreement with third countries.
in writing. − whereas the adriatic-ionian sea has been an important maritime and aquaculture area whose coastline takes in seven member states, candidate countries and potential candidate countries, a portion of this area is in international waters. this fact requires cooperation by these neighbouring countries to ensure sustainable fishing activities, especially considering the rise in the installation of fishing facilities that are incompatible with other activities in the area. with the assistance of the commission, a strategy promoting cooperation can be implemented to encourage responsible and sustainable fishing activities in the area. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the report by mrs milana on a fisheries strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas was voted on today in plenary. the aim is to promote the development of a new community strategy in the field of fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas. the countries bordering this sea area now share many resources, including fish stocks, and face a number of problems in this area where there is still no common regional plan. the european commission has recently adopted a communication proposing a maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, of which the promotion of sustainable fisheries is one of the four strategic pillars. i therefore agree with mr milana's report that we should act on this basis in order to launch a community macro-regional strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea basin which takes account of the specific characteristics of this sea basin in the fisheries and aquaculture sector.
in writing. - the aim of this document is to promote the development of a new common strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas. for too many years, the limits of exploitation of these waters have been exceeded: the whole system now needs to be reorganised, developing sustainable activities that can have a positive impact on all the coastal communities concerned and their hinterland.
in writing. − in times of crisis, economic and labour force recovery is also a result of policies aimed at the exploitation of environmental resources. i therefore voted in favour of mr milana's report, which aims to promote the development of a new community strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas, with the aim of making a substantial contribution to the development of sustainable activities with positive effects on coastal and inland communities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the de lange report 'towards a more efficient and cost-effective interpreting service in the european parliament'. the text condemns the waste of at least eur 15.39 million in interpreting services over the past three years due to the inefficient use of resources and calls on the bureau to take the necessary measures to contain expenditure.
in writing. − multilingualism is one of the fundamental elements of the european parliament and of the union as a whole, and forms the basis of the political, co-legislative and communication activities of this institution. in recent years interpretation services have achieved significant improvements in terms of efficiency and cost reduction, while maintaining excellent quality of work. the fact remains that interpretation and translation expenditure continue to absorb a significant proportion of parliament's budget: i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the challenge of multilingualism at reasonable cost requires constant attention from parliament. it is essential that the resources to be allocated to multilingualism be contained by management based on the real needs of users, by empowering users and by better planning of requests for language services, without this compromising the right of members to use the official language of their choice in parliament.
in writing. - multilingualism and multiculturalism have always been a richness of the european system. the various enlargements, however, have had the effect of making multilingualism an increasingly complex challenge to tackle. to avoid it becoming an obstacle, it is essential to provide adequate financial support in the budget for the next financial period. i believe, however, that at the same time the interpretation service must be made more efficient, avoiding unnecessary waste and costs, such as those associated with late cancellations of interpretation requests. the ability to communicate in one's own official language is one of the eu's fundamental principles. but it is equally important to show our citizens that in these times of economic constraints, economic resources are being used in a really effective way.
in writing. - the european parliament is certainly one of the bodies in the world which makes the greatest use of interpretation services: this is for obvious reasons, because the european union recognises multilingualism as a key principle and because all services must be made available to members to enable them to fulfil their mandate in the best possible way. however, it is undeniable that this mechanism generates incredible costs, and the entry of new countries and new languages only makes the situation worse. a balance would therefore be needed between ensuring that everyone has a perfect capacity for expression and understanding and trying to limit unnecessary costs: i have often been in commission meetings and saw three people translating into a language without any member of that nationality present. this is unacceptable, and the cancellation mechanism for requests for interpretation should be revised, since the time limit is exceeded and there are heavy penalties and costs to cover the interpretation service. where it is not strictly necessary, and expressly requested, i would be in favour of limiting the interpreting service to a few selected languages, obviously trying not to penalize anyone.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because the european union is the only entity in the world to pursue an official policy of multilingualism based on 23 official languages, which will soon be 24. in 2011, 5 263 sessions were held with approximately 100 000 days/interpreters, for which external interpreters were used in 47,74% of cases and official interpreters in 52,26% of cases. the figures are alarming, but parliament's interpretation services are of the highest quality. these figures may seem impressive, but they guarantee that every european citizen can read parliament's acts in his own language!
in writing. − while the principle of multilingualism is a core concept of parliament and the european union as a whole, the cost of interpretation services in 23 official languages is considerably high. we have a responsibility to eu taxpayers to improve the efficiency of resources allocated to interpretation without sacrificing citizensʼ access to parliament and the cultural and linguistic diversity in europe. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the de lange report stresses the need to improve the efficiency of multilingualism without compromising the quality of services and without calling into question the right of members to speak in their official language in parliament. the recent efficiency gains in the debate on parliament's budget and the good practices to be undertaken, such as the implementation of interpretation on request or the reduction of late cancellations, are undoubtedly a good starting point for achieving the objectives set.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for tackling such a delicate subject without any redundant moralisms, but with lucid and consequent determination. i am voting in favour of the report and i wholeheartedly support its recommendations. italy is one of the countries most affected by the growth of gambling addiction in connection with the weakening of households and falling incomes, especially in urban centres. health services estimate the number of patients at over one million, and the tax administration recorded a per capita expenditure of two thousand euros per year in 2011. i support the combined approach of offering a european-wide regulated gambling facility under a subsidiary system, with built-in limits on spending and time, and of taking a firm stance against illegal gambling, especially those aimed at manipulating sports competitions. the two obligations of public authorities must be distinguished: on the one hand, the moral duty, as well as the material interest, to protect vulnerable segments of the population; the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the financial interests of the community. i agree with the suggestion that the legal gaming industry should not be penalized, but should be regulated in a way that is appropriate to the delicate implications for social order and public safety.
in writing. - online gambling is not a market like any other. its negative health and social effects are well documented and its link to organised crime, money laundering and the manipulation of sporting events is a cause for concern. with this resolution we are not calling for the introduction of harmonised rules for a single market for online gambling but for greater coordination between member states and the commission for better organisation and regulation of online gambling services. but above all, what we are calling for is strong action against illegal online gambling, including the development of a notion of legal gambling operators. finally, particular attention should be paid to young people and the most vulnerable members of society who are very often victims of gambling addiction. we call for concrete measures to make it impossible for minors to access gambling; let us not forget that 75% of european young people between the ages of 6 and 17 use the internet. i believe that it is absolutely necessary to raise barriers to prevent young europeans from falling into this tragic addiction.
in writing. - i have followed this subject very closely since parliament drew up its own-initiative report. play therapy is now officially in the psychiatric textbooks, and gambling is a huge business. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not left to his own devices, and that the consumer is not left to his own devices. i have greatly appreciated the attitude of the main players in the market, who have shown a sense of responsibility and a desire to be regulated more clearly, even at the cost of giving up some market shares. i think the rapporteur has done a very good job of balancing the interests and sensitivities of the different countries and political groups, to call for regulation on a national basis, which takes account of peculiarities and traditions, while putting a brake on all those behaviours and market segments in which it takes advantage of the state of submission of the customer. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the online gambling craze is a hope of 'settling down' people enter the online gambling industry hoping to solve their financial problems and chasing the illusion of winning, but instead risk falling into a very serious pathological state, developing addiction and engaging in obsessive-compulsive behaviour. the risk is therefore twofold, but unfortunately the impression is that while the risk of illegality is rightly called for and that strong action is called for, the risk of addiction to 'legal' sites does not seem to be perceived as such. i find it unacceptable that while people are calling for the closure of illegal websites, nothing is being done or said against the invasion of television poker tournaments with testimonials from the rich and famous! we can accept blacklists of illegal sites, but it is contradictory to have an entire tv dedicated to poker or to have football teams sponsored by betting agencies! i believe that there is still a long way to go and that europe must find the strength to promote, in concrete terms, a discipline which serves the interests of its weakest citizens, without having an eye on the need for the states to make money through what is a transfer from the pockets of the poorest groups.
in writing. - president, i voted in favour of the fox report because i believe it is essential that more careful control is exercised over online gambling in order to avoid possible negative effects on the health of citizens and on society, such as organised crime, money laundering and the manipulation of sporting events. the phenomenon is particularly widespread in italy; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it should also be borne in mind that this activity may involve a high risk of addiction. in italy alone, there are about 708,225 pathological gamblers. the victims are above all the most vulnerable members of society, who are at risk of finding themselves in even more precarious living conditions. recognition of the specific nature of online gambling and consumer protection are therefore necessary. the adoption of additional measures to protect players by restricting and regulating such activity cannot be postponed. finally, given the cross-border nature of online gambling, there is a need to strengthen cooperation between member states in the fight against illegal activities related to online gambling.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on online gambling because i believe that this would help to combat the phenomenon. the formulation of coordinated strategies between the commission, member states and the expert group on gambling services will also make it easier to remedy the problem by putting in place a policy of sharing best practice and information for the subsequent enforcement of enforcement measures against illegal operators. the aim is to strengthen consumer protection, including work on health-related aspects of pathological and problem gambling.
in writing. - this report aims to apply shared administrative practices for the member states on the subject of combating illegal betting and money laundering. online gambling is a growing market across the european union, but states are also faced with a number of related problems, including the notorious problem of gambling addiction. i support the report because it calls for specific action in this area.
in writing. the long negotiations which characterised the discussion on this subject ended with a satisfactory agreement. there are still some points on which i have some reservations, especially because they are difficult to reconcile with the regulations in italy. the amendments are appropriate to recognise the specific nature of the public gambling sector (with particular reference to the remote gaming sector). the meeting point was the necessary application of the principle of subsidiarity, according to which the national systems of concessions or licences issued by the member states constitute the best form of control of the supply of games on their territory. equally important was the recognition of the importance of combating illegal supply, thus ensuring consumer protection.
in writing. − we welcome the recent commission communication entitled 'towards a comprehensive european regulatory framework for online gambling', which we consider to be a step forward in ensuring that european consumers have access to safe and appropriately regulated online services. we believe that only effective regulation of the online gambling sector can prevent the risk of gambling addiction and ensure that gambling is fair, equitable, responsible and transparent. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to take action against the supply of illegal gambling from within the territory of the member states themselves, considering that a single european legislative act, aimed at uniformly regulating the entire gambling sector, is not appropriate because of subsidiarity concerns, but that in some areas a coordinated european approach alongside national regulations would undoubtedly provide added value, given the cross-border nature of online gambling services.
in writing. - online gambling has exploded in recent years across europe, with a growing turnover of billionaires and more and more individuals turning to this alternative to traditional gambling halls. like many activities on the web, this is difficult to detect and regulate and therefore maximum cooperation between the different national authorities is needed to ensure that no particular phenomena related to money laundering or to distort the proper conduct of sporting events, for example, occur. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of online gambling. those who want to risk their lot and have fun should be allowed to do so, but always within certain limits, for it is not uncommon for individuals and entire families to be ruined by gambling: this is not only harmful to them, as it seems, but also to the whole community. finally, strict control should also be applied to suppliers operating on the european market but having their registered office outside the eu: the rules must apply to everyone. what ?
in writing. - i have cautiously supported this resolution on online gambling. my vote was hampered in some parts of the text by the importance of the message this parliament wants to send to consumers on the one hand and to the companies that operate online gambling sites on the other, which, without moral hypocrisy, are companies that make a profit, create jobs and contribute to the wealth of a country by paying corporate taxes. online gambling is a fast-growing service activity in the eu, with annual growth rates of almost 15%. annual revenues are forecast to be around eur 13 billion in 2015: compared to eur 9,3 billion in 2011, this would be a total growth rate of almost 40%. in order to safeguard the positive effects of this business on the european economy and the labour market, our institution must protect consumers, promote forms of education on the possible contraindications to gambling when it is carried out without the necessary balance and promote the utmost opposition to companies that illegally offer online gambling, without any guarantee for consumer users and perhaps based on their own tax centre and in those non-european countries with facilitated regimes.
in writing. - we support mr fox's report and reiterate that, in the face of the spread of gambling addiction, which is costing society so much in terms of treatment, and the many families ruined by gambling, it is more necessary than ever to take steps to make society more responsible. too many for the sake of play commit crimes and even kill themselves. we believe that it is essential to prohibit gambling advertising as is already the case with tobacco and to make gambling inaccessible to minors. the controls on the links between criminal organisations and gambling houses should be improved, as should the spread of gambling and gambling on the internet, where young people are difficult to control. the use of slot machines, which are rampant in many european establishments, should also be severely restricted, given the psychological illusion of greater ease of winning that brings so many people to the brink. the european union can no longer ignore the problem and must instead act to bring gambling back on the path of legality and respect for the health of citizens, limiting as much as possible the proliferation of harmful behaviour and fostering a sense of responsibility within the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr fox's text because i believe that limits should be placed on online gambling, especially in view of the risks of gambling addiction. setting limits and ensuring safe betting is in the interests of consumers and will reduce gambling addiction. it is also important to stress that the text voted on today reinforces the commitment to combat illegal gambling. ensuring transparency of information and responsible betting will facilitate the recognition and sanctioning of illegal betting.
in writing. − with online gambling providers present on the european union market, regulating the online gambling industry is necessary to ensure citizens are using online services safely and healthily and to minimise the disadvantages of online gambling activities, including potential compulsive gambling, money laundering and organised crime. the report suggests that efficient regulation should ensure consumers have access to high quality, fair and transparent online gambling services while reducing the negative health and social impact and combating illegal online gambling. it also specifies that vulnerable groups, in particular young gamblers, should be protected. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text of the report because gambling is creating serious problems for many citizens of the union who, out of passion or desperation, risk ruining themselves and their families economically. even worse is the risk involved in online gambling where thousands of sites, many illegal, pose risks of fraud and money laundering. it is therefore important to implement the 'online gaming action plan' launched by the european commission in october 2012. the report proposes a set of common rules on restrictions on advertising, the fight against illegal betting and money laundering and stricter controls on operators.
in writing. − after work in the respective committees, a final text was drawn up which represents a step forward in consumer protection, the fight against illegal betting and the safety of the services offered. the regulation of the online gambling sector should aim to prevent the risk of gambling addiction and ensure that gambling is fair, responsible and transparent. it will also be necessary to combat illegal gambling through cooperation between the authorities of the member states, by strengthening the technical and legal tools to identify and sanction illegal operators and to ensure effective protection of players, especially the most vulnerable.
the agenda shall include the presentation by the council of its position on the draft general budget for the financial year 2014 (2013/2624 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that the procedure does not include the 'catch the eye' procedure nor will blue cards be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank commissioner janusz lewandowski, rapporteurs monika hohlmeier and anne jensen and alain lamassoure, the chair of the committee on budgets, for their very valuable remarks and views. at this juncture, we consider that a better understanding of mutual positions on the council’s proposal on the draft budget for 2014 is the main goal. i think we have reached that. it opens the door for us to start real negotiations on the 2014 budget in the coming months. once again, i consider that today’s discussion was a very good starting point from which to go forward. i would like to add that we rely on the commission’s support because it traditionally performs the role of honest broker. commissioner lewandowski, we are looking forward to fruitful cooperation. i would like to assure you that the lithuanian presidency of the council, and i myself, will do our best in order to get positive results. i thank you very much for your attention and would like to wish the parliament every success in its examination of the council’s position in the coming weeks. we very much look forward to our negotiations in october and november.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
i can only agree with the council that we should give a further blow to the costs of the european institutions, which are too often the source of enormous waste, starting with the still unresolved question of the dual seat of this parliament, on which i would like the lithuanian presidency to take a clear stand. i do not see how the council can cut such fundamental lines as those for growth and employment in its position: i cannot accept in particular the reduction in support for small and mediumsized enterprises, young people and, last but not least, funds for a concrete fight against fraud and counterfeiting, involving european customs. these are bad signs, because resources cannot be diverted from the most productive part of the european economy, which must be the engine for the recovery; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i hope, therefore, that these points will be reviewed as soon as possible, since there are other areas where action should be taken.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council position on the draft amending budget no 2/2013 of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission, [11693/2013 - c7-0245/2013 - 2013/2056 ((bud)) ] (a7-0287/2013).
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i have never been soft in criticizing the european union's budgets, with expenditure that is sometimes frankly unjustifiable. however, one thing should be clear: the commitments must be respected and therefore payments for the actions already undertaken must be made. i would not want europe to pick up the bad habit of italy: a lot of commitments and then sobbing payments when they come. the commission's commitments and demands must therefore be honoured. i would like to see more realism in the future, that is, that commitments are only made if they can be respected. many european countries are suffering from serious budgetary problems and it is therefore not possible to expect the european union to live in another dimension. we therefore honour payments to carry out programmes which have some usefulness, such as support for small and mediumsized enterprises or for young people. on the other hand, other lines which are not at all priority are being cut, such as the billions given to turkey in recent years under the pre-accession funds.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me briefly respond to some voices in this house: what we need for 2013 to cover the real shortage – and accumulation of problems from previous years – is to cover legitimate claims, not an expenditure invented by the commission. this is about bills coming from the member states passing severe controls, as the taxpayers’ money coming to the european budget is better controlled than public expenditure at the member state level because there is not only a domestic control but also brussels control and the audit. what is suspended is suspended, and what is cancelled is cancelled but the amending budget is to cover legitimate claims coming from the member states. even in a time of austerity one needs to pay one’s electricity bill. this is a question of trust; this is a question of credibility. even in times of austerity you need to show your monetary gesture of solidarity with the victims of floods in germany and in austria. this is again a question of credibility and image of the eu institutions. anne jensen was asking a real question: whether eur 11.2 billion – a huge amount really, an accumulation of problems – is enough for 2013. first of all, that is to pay out what legally should be paid in 2013 and is for bills coming until the end of october, but we really need the full amount this year – so an additional 3.9 billion this year in order to reduce the legacy of this financial perspective for the next financial perspective to the size of normal overhang and not unusual overhang of claims as it was between 2012 and 2013. and for sound budgeting we need to exploit the full ceilings of the 2014 budget also. we are now starting an historical experiment of how to finance more europe with less money. more europe in terms of geography. we have a new member state; we have lot of new competences with less money. i do believe – and it has been demonstrated in various countries – that the european budget is an investment budget. this is a partial answer to how to solve the dilemma of financing growth, jobs and investment in times of fiscal consolidation. there is no perfect answer, but the eu budget is a partial answer to this problem.
the rapporteur. - mr president, it is clear from the debate in the chamber that most of the major political groups are moving towards adopting this amending budget. this is an important step because, as the commissioner rightly said, once commitments have been made, it is right to make subsequent payments. but it is also an important step because we want the new financial programming to start in the best possible way, without an extraordinary carry-over of payment debts from previous years. it is clear - and the message is sent to the council - that when commitments are made - and the council in this case has been extremely lavish in previous years in many cases - then it is time to pay the bill. today is that day! at a trilogue with the commission and the lithuanian presidency, the commissioner said that at this point in the year we have already used up two thirds of the payment appropriations for the 2013 budget. we are well aware that the part of the year when the greatest needs for payments are the last part of the year, because the commitments made in connection with cohesion policy and rural development policy are converted into invoices, transferred to the commission and the member states, which must be paid. it is therefore clear that this is the time when we have greater needs on many budget lines. this year the commission has been forced to make a very significant series of transfers, precisely in order to try to implement the policies. this is a clear sign that this is not a whim of the commission but rather a strong need for payment interventions for this latter part of the year, on which i hope that tomorrow this parliament will give a meaningful and favourable vote in favour of amending budget no 2. i take this opportunity to call on the commission once again to present the new amending budget as soon as possible.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 september at 12.00. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by georgios papanikolaou, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on implementation of the eu youth strategy 2010-2012 (2013/2073(ini)) (a7-0238/2013), and– the report by joanna katarzyna skrzydlewska, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on tackling youth unemployment: possible ways out (2013/2045(ini)) (a7-0275/2013).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, i thank the rapporteurs and, given the limited time available, i will not dwell on the negative data but on the concrete proposals that have emerged to give real opportunities to young people. first, dual training, i.e. training linked to the enterprise and the world of work. secondly, the promotion of youth entrepreneurship by ensuring easier access to credit and microcredit. thirdly, start-ups for young entrepreneurs to develop ideas and talents. fourthly, monitoring the use of the eur 82 billion of european funds not allocated under the current programming for youth employment. i remember that up to this point, just over 16 billion has been spent. fifthly, maximum commitment to a more effective use of the 6 billion euro of the next programming for the youth initiative. sixth: compulsory consultation of young people on employment and training issues. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to say that i have tabled an amendment with other colleagues to encourage member states to reduce the tax wedge in favour of smes which employ young people.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the european union makes sense if, in addition to managing the present, it aims to invest in the future. that is why attention to young people is strategic and essential, provided that words are followed by deeds. we know that in february 2013 the overall rate of youth unemployment in the european union was 23.5 percent, that 14 million young people are unemployed and outside of any cycle of education and training, the so-called "neet", this new acronym that unfortunately we have now begun to know, also because the number of neets has increased dangerously throughout the european union, also considering that many young people are doing informal, temporary jobs, without prospects, without any relation to their qualifications or professional ambitions. we must therefore try to do this seriously, recognising that the first cycle of the youth strategy needs to be strengthened, that the ambitious declarations of the european council on commitments for young people need to be put into practice, also because the growth package announced in 2012 consisted of a partial reallocation of structural funding that had already been promised and committed, that there is dissatisfaction in finding that member states have remained fundamentally firm on the demand for specific measures in favour of young people. for all these reasons, it is important that the new european union programme on education, training, youth and sport, with a chapter specifically devoted to young people, be adopted. but we must continue to strengthen vocational training and guidance, ensuring that the structural funds for regional development are also directed towards competitiveness, education, quality traineeships and jobs. we must also focus our attention on reducing educational inequalities, absenteeism and school dropout, which in some member states is even increasing. we know that there is a generation that wants to do, that is engaged in volunteering, in sports, in association and in many other areas. but this generation, madam president, needs help in its desire to grow up, to start a family, to combat psychological and social distress. let's not leave her alone!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, youth unemployment is a social scourge which europe is unable to cure. the 15 million young europeans who are not in education, training or employment are proof of this. after all, who would invest in countries on the verge of bankruptcy? who will have the courage to start a business and hire new employees if taxes continue to rise? in the face of this emergency, either europe will revolutionize its way of doing things or the citizens will revolutionize! we encourage and help european businesses to hire at least one unemployed young person, by providing loans or at least tax breaks to reduce the tax burden which is currently suffocating our businesses, and we promote in every way the link between the world of training and the labour market. millions of unemployed young europeans without prospects are waiting for concrete and immediate answers from europe, for projects and for economic resources. we can 't go wrong anymore . this time, it is not just trust in institutions that is at stake, but the future of the new generations.
madam president, the european paradox is that the rate of youth unemployment in post-war europe is increasing as the population under 25 years of age decreases. it is a sign that we must respond to the new global challenges with an integrated approach, on the one hand, of course, by setting up targeted policies such as the youth guarantee, erasmus plus and other targeted programmes, but above all by activating 'younger' policies, coherent and innovative, based on the expansion of skills, a real warfare, and policies for new employment in sectors that are too often marginal, such as culture, research, tourism, territorial development and the environment, and by widening access to the opportunities of european programming. the two reports we have to approve are in that direction, and when we are faced with 13 per cent of young people under 24 who are not studying or working and 6 million young people unemployed in europe, it means that we have to start from the centrality of education systems, quality training, vocational and technical training and not from the cuts made by many member states in recent years. the curricula must be aligned with the 2 million vacancies in europe, the eqf system for the certification of qualifications and training credits must be completed, guarantee funds and incentives for companies of young people or those employing young people must also be supported by the european social fund, access to research grants for young researchers and mobility must be extended. the contribution of social networks, which could provide according to some estimates over 200,000 new jobs, should also be studied.
madam president, commissioner, there is no doubt that such a significant issue as the fight against youth unemployment deserves great attention, as it has been in this passionate and meaningful debate. the percentages are very high: a country like italy has 40 percent of its young people unemployed. this is a figure of an economic system which needs to expand its labour market, especially with regard to young people and young talent, who are very often forced to emigrate while remaining within the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community. the old crafts must be given a new lease of life and agriculture, which is still an important engine of our production, must also be given a special treatment. we need a successful training programme, which can be secured for young people if concrete initiatives can be taken with more resources, if the billions of euros in the new financial perspective do not seem enough. we need better use of the european social fund and - why not? - access to the european investment bank and an erasmus programme where everyone can finally move as they please. finally, a significant reduction in administrative burdens and red tape is needed.
madam president, commissioner, the youth guarantee policies are very useful because they build a bridge between the entry of young people into the labour market and future employment, but they do not create jobs: the commission's proposals are not based on the principle of subsidiarity, but on the principle of subsidiarity. moreover, investment policies should also be accompanied by a targeted effort to innovate the production system, whether of goods or services. the commission can play an important and additional role in this, namely to direct the efforts of young people towards knowledge. policies which do not invest in education and knowledge and which do not give it the highest priority are likely to be a useful social buffer, nothing more!
in writing. in 2009, the commission published a communication setting out a new european union strategy for youth, aimed at establishing a framework for cooperation on youth issues for the next decade and providing young people with more and better opportunities. however, four years after its publication, socioeconomic indicators in europe have changed considerably: the situation then is not comparable to the problems facing the union today. the continuing effects of the economic and financial crisis that has gripped europe are causing an unprecedented collapse in opportunities for our young people. according to commission figures, the economic loss associated with the disengagement of young people from the labour market was estimated at eur 153 billion in 2011, equivalent to 1,2% of the union's gdp. this situation represents a serious socioeconomic damage which, as such, should not be underestimated. in my view, this challenge must be met without delay by targeted measures and adequate funding in the field of vocational education and training. in addition, since many member states only partly use the european structural funds to support these sectors, i would draw the commission's attention to the need to take more targeted action and develop specific instruments and indicators.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, the oral question tabled by mr rohde covers most of the topics relevant to our current reflections on the digital agenda, and it states at the outset that the digitisation of the eu economy has the potential to boost growth and create jobs. this is something that the council fully agrees with. the internet and new information society applications are changing our lives at a rapid pace. digital technologies have the potential to provide europeans with a better quality of life through, for example, better healthcare, safer transport, efficient energy distribution, consumption, new media opportunities and easier cross-border access to goods and services. the growth of the telecoms sector also helps increase productivity, competitiveness and employment opportunities in other sectors. the honourable member questions whether the eu’s fixed and mobile communications broadband networks have sufficient capacity to deal with the expected growth in global data traffic and whether the level of investment in these networks is sufficient. this is a concern which the council fully shares. let me also assure you, on behalf of the lithuanian presidency, that the digital agenda for europe is at the top of our agenda and, speaking frankly, let me use this opportunity to mention that the biggest event during our presidency will be the ict 2013 conference which will take place in vilnius on 6-8 november 2013. we are expecting about 4 000 participants, and all interested members of the european parliament are obviously most welcome. i mention it simply to emphasise that this really is our top priority issue. last december the telecoms council broadly endorsed seven transformative actions launched by the commission: completing the digital single market for content and services; speeding up public sector innovation; establishing high-speed broadband connections; cloud computing; trust and security linked to the proposal for e-identification and to the cybersecurity strategy; digital jobs and skills; and the industrial agenda for key enabling technologies. at the june telecoms council, ministers expressed broad support for the aim of achieving a single telecoms market where operators could deliver services throughout the eu and where users could access such added-value digital services whenever and wherever they wished. the honourable member asks whether the current proposals will help address the challenge of achieving a single digital market. there is no doubt that these proposals will make a significant contribution to the expansion of broadband networks and ensure that electronic transactions can be carried out securely. we are committed to making rapid progress on the issues to which i have referred and we look forward to close cooperation with parliament to assist us in this goal. the honourable member also asks for the council’s views on the proposal which is expected to be adopted by the commission tomorrow on the completion of the european single market for electronic communications. in the light of a possible review of the regulatory framework, you will appreciate that i cannot comment on a proposal which has not yet been issued. i appreciate, however, that underlying the question is a concern that, despite major efforts and the adoption of important pieces of legislation, we may not be on track to achieve the single telecoms market. the council would expect any review to be comprehensive and to ensure proper balance between the supply and demand sides of the digital market. this means that operators should be able to grow to a point where they can compete effectively and invest sufficiently in the required networks, and at the same time consumers need to be adequately protected and citizens’ rights must be guaranteed: that is also very important. this should mean, inter alia, data protection for all operators and ensuring reliable access to the internet. our aim is to ensure that the digital economy gets the broadband networks it needs, whether fixed or mobile. for this, investment in broadband networks is needed and sufficient radio spectrum has to be made available, particularly with a view to accelerating the transition to fourth generation mobile communications. the role of national regulators also needs to be reviewed and could include ensuring closer coordination on the management of radio spectrum and more generally providing an appropriate level of market competition to support a single telecoms market in which eu-based operators, and not companies from third countries, are the key players. next month’s european council will consider the commission’s report on progress in completing the digital single market. we hope that this report will support the preferred approach with adequate evidence and that this approach will be based on a comprehensive review of the whole sector, taking full account of the interests of all parties.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, minister, honourable members, and especially the rapporteur, mr rohde, i am grateful for the debate tonight and for the very timely remarks that mr rohde has made. i was just thinking today that every member state has a ‘digital champion’ but i would love to have a couple of digital champions from the european parliament too, and i sincerely hope, mr rohde, that you would be one of the candidates for that job. today i want to set out how we are building a digital europe with networks that are fast, reliable and resilient and digital businesses that can grow and prosper in the global marketplace. once, europe led the world with the latest digital technology. with gsm (the global system for mobile communications), europe developed a new technology standard that took over, and many of the devices that used it were also made by european companies. well, we have lost our lead. we have just 6% of the world’s 4g, and last week nokia sold much of its business to microsoft. there are many reasons why a particular company can prosper or stumble, but the fact remains that ict is a key sector, increasingly underpinning many others and increasingly indispensable to our citizens. so look at the big picture and ask yourself this: how much space are we giving companies to expand and grow? are we giving them the ingredients for global success? are we giving ourselves the tools to compete in a digital era? i worry that the answer is no and, having read the resolution from the committee on industry, research and energy, i think that you and your committee agree. i would like to thank you again, mr rohde, for that report. we need to do more to support digital businesses. we need to do more to give them a home market which is digital, dynamic and unified and to give them, and every european, the connectivity they crave. we must address the challenge of building a connected continent, and we are doing so. our cybersecurity strategy is an important step towards ensuring resilient, secure networks for a competitive economy. the consequences of a major incident could be devastating and no european wants to be hacked, attacked, or spied on. so i am pleased to have parliament’s position on this issue – many thanks to mr schwab and his colleagues – and you will be aware that the council, too, has reached a positive conclusion on it. i agree with you that we should integrate cyber issues into our external action and i also agree that europe needs minimum cybersecurity requirements. our proposed legislation would put these in place, together with risk management and flexible information flows. we rely increasingly on this infrastructure for everything, and protecting it should be every politician’s top priority. i therefore urge parliament and the council to act accordingly: to agree this legislation as quickly as possible within the current parliamentary term. we are also advancing on other fronts towards building a digital europe. this week i hope the college of commissioners will formally approve a new approach to costing and discrimination in telecoms networks, giving operators the stable framework they need for investment in high-speed broadband, rightly mentioned by mr rohde. hopefully that approval will come tomorrow. we have put forward legislation to cut the cost of broadband roll-out, streamlining the process to save eur 40-60 billion. there are proposals on e-identification to build trust and stimulate the online marketplace; rules on web accessibility so that more and more people can access essential websites; and a digital connecting europe facility, which could provide the building blocks for further quality online european services. as you know, our job is limited to proposing legislation. these valuable proposals now rest in the hands of the legislator. all the proposals are important. they will help us to build the kind of vibrant online europe that we all want, and they need to be agreed – urgently please – but it is becoming clear to me that they are still not enough. i do not propose to change our focus or our goals but i want to use the tools readily to hand and to support every part of the ecosystem. the single market is our crown jewel. it is time we brought that boost to this most fundamental part of our economy – the digital networks on which our daily lives depend so deeply. in his state of the union speech tomorrow, president barroso will set out new commission plans for how to build that connected continent. there is one more point i want to discuss today. the resolution from your committee on industry, research and energy underlines how important entrepreneurs are: they represent an alternative career path in a time of unemployment and they are a necessary source of stimulus in a time of low growth. i agree completely, and if you are as passionate as i am about this cause – and i am certain you are – let me offer you a way to channel that passion ... i gathered together some of europe’s top entrepreneurs – some of the guys and girls who have made it, so to speak – and i asked them to give me their suggestions on how to make europe a better place for innovators. give us a better chance that the next facebook will come from here in europe, they replied; give us a better chance of stimulating quality jobs in a digital economy. when i asked them, ‘if you were me, in my job’ – and i hastened to add that there was no vacancy – ‘tell me what you would think?’ they wrote a whole manifesto – a manifesto for a stronger, more dynamic eu, better at supporting web innovators. more than 2 000 people have already signed up to show they agree with that manifesto, and it would be great if you too would sign it. it is the sort of manifesto capable of creating a positive tsunami: that is, a wake-up call for everybody. supporting it means making a great effort – and taking a big step forward for our connected continent.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, a credible and concrete digital agenda must develop a policy of growth and development in a single market in which the industrial sector, like the ict sector, is essential. a uniform and coherent legislative framework at european level is essential at this stage in order to ensure that the demands of european citizens for transparency and clarity are met. in this respect, information and communication technologies are now a crucial sector of the economy. in this context, however, the growth of the internet and the increasing electronic transactions that are developing there have brought about a real mass revolution, which sees citizens and businesses open to these new realities. the legal economy, like our consumers, needs cybersecurity, protection and trust. as rapporteur on organised crime, i have dealt specifically with the frequent breaches of computer systems, as parliament has also dealt with them recently through the hohlmeier dossier. we therefore need effective action and judicial and police cooperation based on trust between member states to combat a crime which would otherwise undermine citizens' confidence in this market. the cost of cybercrime in europe is €110 billion, and there are 556 million victims worldwide every year as a result of cyberattacks, one every 18 seconds. we need growth, investment and knowledge, we need to protect fundamental rights and reduce digital illiteracy, and finally, mr president, we need to complete this digital single market by restoring trust, security and transparency to citizens and businesses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate and vote is a step in the process of reviewing and launching the objectives of the digital agenda, a proposal which can count on the unanimous support of the commission today. digital technologies are a valuable tool for growth, development and jobs and this parliament is also standing by commissioner kroes in the battle to bring down all roaming charges. this is a battle that the socialist and democratic group has been fighting since 2011. i would therefore like to make the following observations: i do not see how those aims can be reconciled with a proposal for a digital market regulation which is in fact going in the opposite direction. in other words, on the one hand we say that it is right and sacrosanct to abolish roaming in order to finally and definitively achieve the single market for telecommunications users, but on the other hand the proposal for updated wholesale roaming tariffs distances the objective of overcoming roaming. i believe that the development of the digital agenda also involves the revival of the principles of openness and competition on european markets, in accordance with the net neutrality criterion. i understand and share the view of those who want to promote consolidation between operators in the sector at european level, to make us stronger in relation to non-european competition, but all this cannot be done at the expense of competition criteria, which often tend to favour mainly certain operators, the large ones, to the disadvantage of others who are smaller. i believe that this is the time for consistency and i therefore invite you to ensure that this debate and the resolution are not merely an exercise in politics but are confirmed by the legislative proposals: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the roaming problem.
mr president, many colleagues have spoken at length about cybersecurity, which is a very sensitive subject which we are also dealing with in the data protection regulation with some of the colleagues here. i would like to focus instead on the digital agenda, which therefore implies growth, mobility and employment. the digital sector creates many more jobs than it destroys - if we want to compare it to a glass half full or half empty. i do not want to go into the sociological explanations and analysis of this data, but i would like to draw the attention of the european commission and my colleagues to the two political priorities it entails. the first is to exploit this potential and make sure that this job creation actually happens and is realised: the citizens ask for it, the european economy needs it, and in order to compete in international markets it is our moral obligation to create the conditions for our society to progress and become ever more efficient. the second aspect is that of organization, in order to allocate part of the resources deriving from this general increase in productivity to those whose work is rendered obsolete or inefficient by technological innovation. these are usually workers whose skills are difficult to re-locate, and so - as much as i am passionate about technology - i would not want these people to be punished for being on the wrong side of history. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization. i am pleased with the role that the european parliament is playing in pushing the other institutions forward and the development of the digital agenda cannot be delayed any further, neither we nor the citizens of europe can afford it.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention once again to two points. the first was introduced by you, and you reminded us that there are delays or even omissions in the implementation of the services directive in many countries. i don't think this is fate. the fact is that the directive in question was conceived in a period of growth, while the crisis which followed changed the material and objective conditions for its application. i do not say that the objective should be abandoned, but rather that it should be reaffirmed, but by introducing a different timetable than that originally envisaged. the second theme concerns the social dimension of our actions: the horizontal social clause is indispensable not only for workers but also for companies. if there is no uniform and universal threshold, competition between the companies being privatised is achieved by erasing the rights of individuals. the worst competition in the world! that is why this social dimension is very important, especially its uniformity.
madam president, i congratulate mr corazza bildt on his excellent work. i am convinced that the liberalisation of the services market is undoubtedly an important lever to overcome the economic crisis. in this respect, it has been estimated that its full implementation could reach around 2,6% of gdp. this requires every effort to give full implementation to the services directive. i believe that bureaucracy - a sometimes insurmountable obstacle, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises - must be reduced and discriminatory practices affecting consumer confidence must be curbed. i also share the need to create an interaction with the vocational qualifications directive, because it is appropriate for the member states to abolish as soon as possible unjustified requirements that block access to certain professions. of course, there are differences within the member states: my country, for example, is still suffering from this directive on services in a particular sector, the bathing sector. we will try to find a solution as quickly as possible by working together as a team, and for this reason i renew my invitation to the commissioner to visit my country and also to help us to solve this problem.
madam president, the report is completely lacking in the problems connected with the application of the services directive in several member states. there are certain sectors and categories of workers who are in danger of being unemployed within a very short time. i am referring, for example, to the italian bathing operators who represent a unique excellence, the result of experience and professionalism acquired over decades of service. i wonder why this heritage of very small family businesses is being sacrificed to make room for some multinational tourist company that is only waiting to make its mark on our coasts. i do not think that this solution is a great gain for the citizens and the european economy, just as i do not see what benefits can be derived from a wild liberalization of the qualifications of certain professional categories. the tourist guides, for example, another italian excellence, must illustrate a historical, artistic and landscape heritage without equal in the world. their ability is the result of rigorous training, designed to ensure the best for tourists. not all european countries are alike: there are certain characteristics and peculiarities that must be respected!
member of the commission. − madam president, the new regulation for a union customs code (ucc) that you are debating tonight is an example of how efficient and how well prepared and conducted interinstitutional negotiations can be. i pay particular tribute to mr harbour and ms le grip for this positive achievement and for their firm action in remaining within the initial objectives and time limits of the recast, which allowed a balanced lisbonisation of the modernised customs code (mcc). many observers had not believed that this was feasible in such a short period of time. moreover, a number of issues, such as those of temporary storage or indeed the guarantees, that had raised difficulties under the mcc were sorted out to the general satisfaction of all the institutions. broadly speaking, we can say that the current final product is better than the original. let me stress three fundamental, but sometimes forgotten, principles that the ucc sets in stone compared with the legislation in force. first of all, the legal certainty provided by inserting directly in the basic act enhanced common rules: they will clearly support the correct and uniform implementation of the ucc. here i would also emphasise the improved balance between the customs authorities’ need to perform their mission and the facilitations offered to reliable traders. secondly, particular attention was paid to enshrining in the code the principle of a paperless environment for customs and trade. this is crucial compared to the current legal situation, in which paperless operations are not the rule and the paperless environment is therefore not applied evenly. the commission expects that harmonised implementation will save considerable time for trade. thirdly, confirmation of the necessary partnership between customs and legitimate trade is reflected, in particular, in the greater visibility given to the status of authorised economic operator and its benefits. again, this is something that we all agree on, but that is not so clearly reflected in the legislation currently in force. with the ucc, a strong legal basis is established to support the continuing growth of this partnership in the years to come. finally, we should remember that the ucc still needs to move from basic act to implementation. i can assure you today that the commission will keep parliament informed about its preparatory work on future delegated and implementing acts. the commission is also committed to involving member states and trade experts in that preparation through a transparent consultation process.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - madam president, commissioner, parliament is finally voting on a report which sets out the reforms needed to resolve the serious imbalance between customs operators in the single market - an imbalance which has harmed not only consumers but also those working in the sector. we have repeatedly said that there can be no functioning and correct single market if there are different rules at each frontier: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the differences between the large points of northern europe and the mediterranean ports, with more controls and higher vat, accentuate the imbalance. there is no free market without shared and equal rules and there is no single market guaranteeing the welfare of consumers and businesses as long as the various european countries do not standardize the customs system. we hope that the harmonization process will be speeded up and that the accumulated delay will be made up. if we want to safeguard the welfare of our citizens and stimulate economic and productive growth, which is being stifled by the surge in counterfeiting, we must start by modernising the customs code.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i agree with mrs rapti, the colleagues who have preceded me, mr muscardini and others: this seems like a technical dossier, but it can actually bring serious benefits to european businesses and citizens. customs comes from sofa "dīwān" is a persian word meaning sofa meaning that the customs was the place where there were benches, you could sit and you had to wait. customs has always been synonymous with waiting and is still a cost factor for our businesses. customs clearance times are uncertain, there are administrative costs, resources must be used and whole days - if not weeks - must be spent to clear a cargo and many entrepreneurs or even private citizens can breathe a sigh of relief: the goods finally cleared customs! given the seriousness and importance of the union's customs code, parliament is making a serious effort, also through the trilogue, to base this code on a number of pillars which correct the initial proposal. the emphasis must be on method and on information technology, which will enable simplicity, accessibility and savings. it is also necessary to have a single system, with no derogations, except for transitional derogations granted for specific reasons. in any case - as the rapporteur rightly points out - it is important to have a single system for the 28 countries of the union, otherwise there will be a greater gap between the countries which are now more advanced and those which are less so. the gap could only widen. we agree that a separate declaration for temporary storage is useless, and that customs decisions prior to the release of goods should not be notified, without prejudice to the possibility for customs to have access to the same goods. in the end, the amendments made by parliament are necessary. i also think it would be useful to explore the idea proposed by the committee on international trade of a joint pilot task force, so as to start what should be the union's goal: a common customs authority for all the member states. we have an internal market, the neighbouring countries have the same borders and the same constraints for the whole of the european union. it would be one of the achievements that shows that more europe in certain cases is certainly an advantage for society as a whole, but let us start with the code.
madam president, as my predecessors have said, we have reached a substantially positive solution after a not easy journey. the result is possible thanks to the work of the rapporteur and those who have worked with her, on the part of the other political groups. i think it is important that the status of authorized economic operator, based on simplification but with the maintenance of the pre-existing security, is just as important as i think - as does my colleague evelyne gebhardt - that non-preferential origin should remain in the formulation defined by the treaty. i would like to see this landing point as a point of passage rather than the end of a process which should have as its concrete objective the greater traceability of any product made in this part of the world. the last point i would like to make to the commissioner is that the commission's control and supervision must be strengthened, because only by uniform behaviour and the availability of resources - of which there is no trace today - can we have a fully functioning customs system. we have given customs increasingly important tasks which, as you know, range from intellectual property control to security, to the fight against fraud. but they are feasible if everyone behaves fairly, but above all if each of them, in the event of problems that are not easily foreseeable or programmable, is given the necessary sanctions in the event of rule violations, or the resources they need when they can be used to define virtuous behaviour. so your role continues, or i would say begins here, so that the legislation we are writing has the best possible effect.
madam president, i also congratulate my colleague, who is also the rapporteur, because i am in favour of this revision of the union's customs code, as proposed by the commission, in order to bring it into line with the lisbon treaty and the regulatory developments that have taken place. the uniform and consistent application of the code by member states is a key condition for deriving the maximum benefit from it for the whole single market. i very much share the need to simplify procedures by means of computerised procedures in order to develop a more dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and at the same time growth. many other adjustments seem to me to be effective and aimed at improving the operation of the code, such as those relating to the enhancement of the status of economic operator and the need to provide for the entry summary declaration of products to be regulated, but not by means of delegated acts. i therefore feel that i can support them and i congratulate the rapporteur on that.
the problem, mr president, is that this europe was built in the opposite direction, in the sense that a federal state should have given priority to the achievement of political, external and defence union, whereas we started with monetary union. it is true that the present economic crisis is not europe's fault, but it is also true that european policies and the single currency have unfortunately not helped the recovery, and may even have made it much more difficult and slow. mr president, we wonder why so many citizens are against europe. personally, i'd be surprised if you didn't. of course, this does not mean that the citizens are against europe tout court, because there are contradictions to be resolved. for example, where is european unity when - as happened this summer - malta refuses to take in a boatload of immigrants and refugees, who are to be diverted to the italian coast? what happened to european solidarity and unity in this case? where is the united europe when it comes to defending the manufacturing sector from unfair chinese competition? there is very little done in this respect either. what should i tell young people who are forced to emigrate in search of work - as their grandparents did - that europe is concerned about the precise financing of political refugees, pre-accession states such as turkey and certain minorities such as the roma? what am i supposed to say, that europe does not care about young people? mr president, if we solve these problems, there will probably be a little more europeanism. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card)
answer to a blue-card question. i think i have made myself quite clear. for example, in the field of trade and economic policy towards countries which are unfairly competing with us, when we conclude treaties with china which perhaps employs slaves in the laogai, europe could really do much more. this is an area in which europe could defend its citizens, but unfortunately i think that very little is being done.
mr president, mr president barroso, we have heard today an overall picture of the union, and we thank you for the completeness of your presentation. as you will have probably understood from the rather cold reaction of the house in some passages, perhaps this parliament expected something more, more courage, a broader framework of proposals capable of giving answers to the critical problems that europe is experiencing. we have always focused our attention on growth and development, but very often we have been confronted exclusively with austerity and austerity. we need new instruments to support investment and employment. we need to force our focus on growth and development, because if we don't have growth, if our gdp doesn't grow, we certainly won't have employment. we have, however, found that the council, especially with the 2014 budget compared to the conclusions of the heads of state or government council, paid little attention to the budget lines on growth and employment heading 1a. we need to reverse the trend! to get rid of the constraints imposed on us by the member states, we need to have a new discourse on own resources. the european budget cannot remain tied to the financing of the member states, which are a condition for the use of resources. to have more europe we must have more autonomy. on the other hand, we also need innovative finance. to get out of the crisis we need to finance investment, and we are waiting for proposals from the commission on this. as regards foreign policy and mediterranean policy, i believe that more should be done, given what is happening on the southern shore of the mediterranean and in northern africa, because we allocate a lot of resources but count very little. in other words, mr president, we need more europe to get out of the crisis, but we also need to make better use of what we already have.
mr president, the five years of our legislature have exactly covered the time of the worst crisis since the war. the crisis has tested europe's ability to react, the validity of the european project, and we must be honest and tell the truth, namely that europe has not been able to respond sufficiently, otherwise the economic and social reality around us would not be what we see. i believe above all that the error of a unilateral policy of short-sighted austerity, for which someone will bear the political responsibility, is today in the opinion of the citizens a risk of failing europe itself, and the next parliament could be a reflection of this feeling of rejection. of course, measures have been taken, we would have been wrong to have stood by and watched! but the indicators show a europe exhausted, with young people without independence because they are out of work, a weak social fabric and businesses still in great difficulty. if we are going to point the finger at the social plague in our debate, i would not like us to be the usual social democrats, a little obsessed with walfare. it's not like that! we think that the social question is the starting point because we are making policy for the people and nothing else, and because we are farsighted and know that the future, including the economic future, requires cohesion of the social fabric and preparation. we are making policy on the basis of values, the first of which is the quality of a decent and dignified life for all european citizens. we also believe that development, even the most intelligent development, must be based on equity - a word which has disappeared from the european vocabulary and is often replaced by the word 'social exclusion'. the risk we run today, which is also political and democratic, is that we fail to understand that it was this incomplete, divided and selfish europe with a definite political creed that failed or missed the mark, whereas a different europe is possible, necessary and must be built. mr president, what is needed is not just a long list of things to be done, but a profound change, an alternative from which to bring down the things to be done. we want a united, social and prosperous europe. is that too, too ambitious? i think not, because without ambition europe would not only not have been born, but it would not have been conceived by those who conceived it and then made it. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question, rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. i not only said it, i believe it deeply. i believe that the objective of social policy - the one you have mentioned, employment, health, a decent and quality life - is not only a great social and ethical objective, but also a good starting point for the economic growth and development we want to pursue.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. we've got over an hour, so please, focus. if you want electronic voting, don't hesitate to ask, but maximum cooperation. i would like to inform you that, as has already been announced and decided by the conference of presidents, no oral explanations of vote are planned for today, but they will be held tomorrow. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
in writing. - the sardinian language is certainly one of the oldest european languages to which this report refers. and the protection of endangered languages and linguistic diversity must be a priority for the union. not only because of their obvious cultural value, as they contain centuries of history, or because they are the cornerstone of the sense of identity of the local communities on which the union is based. there are also pedagogical and economic reasons for this choice. it has been shown that bilingual children have a greater facility in learning additional languages than monolingual children. as there will be an increasing demand for multilingual workers in the european labour market, i believe that defending linguistic diversity is the right way to ensure more job opportunities for our young people. i welcome this report, but i regret that italy has not ratified the european charter for regional or minority languages, because a policy that is not sufficiently effective in this area can cause considerable damage to local ethnic communities and to the union as a whole, and i hope that the commission will also make its voice heard on this matter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the alfonsi report which dealt with the issue of endangered languages and linguistic diversity. the text is very balanced and is based on a principle which i fully share: the european commission must create specific programmes and funds to support regional languages, which play a decisive role in the transmission and protection of traditions and cultures that are otherwise at risk of disappearing.
in writing. - i support the report by mr alfonsi, adopted by a large majority, on the protection of endangered languages in europe. languages can become extinct if they are no longer passed on between generations, if their use is banned from private or public spaces, or if there is a lack of learning materials. in my amendments i made it clear that we are asking the european commission and the member states to take concrete measures to this end in the new financial period 2014-2020. we also want to push ahead with the ratification of the charter for regional or minority languages. some member states - particularly italy and france - have not yet ratified the 1992 charter, which is regarded as a benchmark for the protection of minority languages. the example of the ladin language in my home region clearly shows that a language only has a chance if it is promoted in a targeted way. while in south tyrol it has been possible to keep the ladin language alive, in the ladin part of belluno, where nothing is being done, it is disappearing.
in writing. − this report calls on the commission and the council to provide for specific programmes and funds to support endangered languages and linguistic diversity in the union. other content that i think is of particular interest is the principles of non-discrimination of regional languages and the importance of their survival. i am voting in favour of this text because it shows how important it is to protect the culture of a language.
in writing. - this report is going in the right direction - culturally. the union's wealth lies in the variety of its cultural expressions, and it is up to us to preserve this wealth, which is part of a larger european identity. we know that many of the languages spoken in the eu are in danger, and that some of them may disappear within the century. it is therefore important that eu bodies act to promote and safeguard these cultural assets. this action must not be implemented solely through the union but, above all, through dedicated policies by the member states.
in writing. − europe is an extremely diverse linguistic community and linguistic diversity is respected by the european union as one of its fundamental rights, yet aside from the most-spoken languages, there are many endangered languages spoken by small groups of citizens. to preserve, protect and promote these endangered languages is consistent with our common values, and necessary funding should be provided to support certain protective actions, including early-age teaching and distance learning of endangered languages, but not wider political agendas. therefore, i voted in favour of this resolution to facilitate joint actions by parliament, the council and the commission to properly protect the rights of linguistic and cultural minorities.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session this morning, voted on an alfonsi report on the european languages in danger of extinction. in a globalised world such as the one we live in today, it is crucial to promote and protect linguistic diversity, which is a fundamental value and cultural heritage of the union. supporting multilingualism, not just with useless proclamations but with ad hoc financial resources and concrete proactive policies, is a challenge which, if met, will undoubtedly bring benefits to social cohesion and the overall cultural enrichment of the union. finally, the report meets my expectations of safeguarding and defending neapolitan, which is already recognized as a language in all its aspects by unesco, but which is too often denigrated in the national and community context. i can therefore only express my agreement with a resolution which, in my view, not only meets the requirements of the identity of each european people but also takes on a relevant local dimension in the preservation of the neapolitan language.
in writing. − the european union and the member states must pay particular attention to endangered languages and protect linguistic diversity in europe. i therefore voted in favour, stressing that the amendment of many amendments which referred to 'minorities' and 'minority languages' to a more general reference to 'endangered languages' has made the text presented by mr alfonsi more balanced and therefore more acceptable to the various political groups.
in writing. - i support the report by mr groote on the appointment of the executive directors of the european environment agency (eea) and its need to bring it into line with the procedures for the appointment of the executive directors of other european agencies.
in writing. − the alignment of the criteria for appointing the executive directors of the european environment agency with those of the other authorities is a step forward in several respects. the need was felt to restore the fundamental monitoring function to the european parliament. it was not possible to continue to maintain an anomaly in the system of european agencies, due to the fact that the regulation of the environment agency precedes the founding regulations of the other agencies. the fact that the parliament, the institution representing the european citizens, has the right prerogatives to appoint the future executive directors of the eea shows the will of the union to ensure greater democracy in its system.
in writing. - this recommendation is technical and difficult to explain to our fellow citizens. i'm sorry about that. nevertheless, it has important political value. the first paragraph of article 9 of the regulation governs the appointment of the executive director of the european environment agency and does not currently include the requirement that the candidate selected by the agency's management board be heard by the competent organ of the european parliament before being appointed. however, this requirement is contained in the regulations establishing other agencies, in particular the european chemicals agency, the european medicines agency and the european food safety authority, which fall within the remit of parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi). in fact, this lack of specific reference to the parliamentary hearing is mainly due to the fact that the regulation establishing the european environment agency predates the regulations establishing the other agencies, as its original version dates back to 1990.
in writing. − the european environment agency (eea) is an agency of the european union that serves as a major information source on environmental issues. regulations authorise the parliament to appoint the executive director of eea; however, whether candidates selected by the member board of eea should be heard by the competent body of the parliament is not specified, mostly due to the fact that the associated regulation is older than the regulations establishing other agencies, such as the european chemical agency and european medicines agency, which include this specific requirement. therefore, i voted in favour of this request to submit a proposal in order to amend the regulations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft amending budget to support the work done by my colleagues during the negotiations with the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr la via on draft amending budget no 3/2013 which aims to enter in the budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2012 financial year. in this way, the accounting for the surplus will result in a corresponding decrease in the member states' overall contribution to the financing of the eu budget, with a saving for each individual country.
in writing. - this draft amending budget helps the member states' economies by giving them some oxygen. as the full amount of the 2012 budget has not been spent, the contribution from the member states may be slightly reduced for 2013.
in writing. − i support the report by mr la via and mr vaughan on draft amending budget no 4/2013 on the recruitment of new staff for the european gnss agency (gsa) - staff of the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency (eacea) - staff of the court of justice of the european union. these new recruitments will not affect the budget but will allow these agencies to operate more efficiently.
in writing. - as for the report by mr fernandes, whose accounting face this measure is, i think it is appropriate to show solidarity with the eu countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. − since the european gnss agency is in urgent need of new staff in order to prepare for its new task in january 2014, it is reasonable to amend the budget so that the agency can add 20 posts entrusted to the new task. however, the original request to add nine new law clerks to the court is unrealistic considering the associated costs, though recruitment is admittedly necessary for reinforcement. i therefore voted for the approval of the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2013 and to meet the demand for staff for the gnss agency, the eacea executive agency, and partially for the court.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fernandes report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help the slovenian and croatian regions of austria which were badly affected by the floods in late october and early november 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this measure because i believe that, even in times of austerity, the eu should show solidarity with those countries in difficulty as a result of a natural disaster.
in writing. - the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and austria, this agreement allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. in parallel to this proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and austria, the commission presented a draft amending budget (oj no 5/2013 of 2 may 2013) to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2013 budget, as provided for in point 26 of the iia. how can you be against it? but as a european parliament we must ask ourselves whether the union is really acting fairly towards all the member states, or whether the issue of natural disasters is a matter of double standards, as the case may be.
in writing. − in november 2012, intense rainfall caused major flooding in slovenia, causing eur 359 535 of damage. the neighbouring countries of austria and croatia were also affected. the flooding has met the ‘major disaster criterionʼ in accordance with relevant council regulations. in order to support disaster relief in the territory, i decided to vote for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the commission has also received a number of letters from the member states, which have been sent to the council and the european parliament. the three beneficiaries will receive € 14,600,000 from the european union to help them repair the damage caused by the severe floods in 2012. the total will be divided differently between the three beneficiary states, the largest part (€14 million) going to slovenia, which was the most affected by the floods.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the floods in slovenia, croatia and austria in autumn 2012. the proposal provides for eur 1 billion to be allocated to the countries concerned. this is a major natural disaster within the meaning of article 2 (2) of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. the fund will be used for reconstruction in the worst affected areas and for humanitarian aid. it is therefore a moral duty on the part of the eu to the member states affected by the disaster.
in writing. - i support this report, which lays down the draft amending budget to cover the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to support the regions of austria, slovenia and croatia severely affected by floods in late october and early november 2012.
in writing. - as for the report by mr fernandes, whose accounting face this measure is, i think it is appropriate to show solidarity with the eu countries affected by natural disasters.
in writing. - in today's vote, the european parliament has defined its position to put an end to the obvious side effects of european legislation, committing itself to preventing the production of biofuels and renewable energies from taking land away from agriculture and, therefore, food, especially in those countries which, more than the european union, need agricultural land and food. the result of the vote is not as straightforward as the socialist and democratic group would have liked, but it is important that there should now be a clear and rapid response from the member states to correct the course taken in the past years in the production of biofuels and at the same time to give a certain regulatory framework to the companies that have invested in this sector. we shall be working on second reading to correct the mistakes made in this house by the centre-right majority. in my region, with projects on so-called 'green chemistry', we have managed to strike a good balance by allocating to industrial production only crops grown on land which is now abandoned because it is no longer profitable, and i believe that this is the path that europe must also follow.
in writing. − the renewable energy directive sets the target of 20% renewable energy in total eu energy consumption and 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020. at the same time, the fuel quality directive introduced a binding target of a 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of fuels for road transport and non-road mobile machinery. accelerating the switch to advanced biofuels, which has a broad consensus, is one of the objectives of the proposal. it is essential to give industry a clear signal of the european union's move towards advanced biofuels in order to encourage long-term investment. that is why i voted in favour of this directive.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs lepage because i believe that it is essential that, as technology and scientific discoveries in the field of fuels progress, legislative modernisation should be achieved in parallel. i think that parliament should have set a more ambitious target for support for second generation biofuels, by adopting a lower percentage to define the limit of the contribution of first generation biofuels to the overall threshold. i also think we should pay more attention to the actual co2 reduction from the most advanced technologies.
in writing. the commission proposal amends the previous directives on fuel quality and the promotion of renewable energy to take account of iluc, i.e. emissions associated with land use change for biofuels, which reduce environmental benefits. the iluc proposal therefore aims to limit the role of biofuels derived from agricultural crops in accounting for the 10% renewable energy target for transport by 2020. i share the objectives of the commission's legislative proposal, which aims to reward the most virtuous biofuels, in terms of co2 emissions compared to the reference fossil fuel and non-competitiveness with the agricultural world for land use. on the other hand, it should be noted that the 5% rate for the use of biofuels and bioliquids produced from cereals and other starchy, sugary or oil crops actually penalizes the investments already made. in addition, the introduction of the four-counting system could have distortive effects on the market, as well as the risk of fraud. however, i believe that the data proposed for indirect land use change emission factors should be supported by international studies on the subject.
in writing. the directive addresses a problem of primary importance, which has a profound impact on the development prospects, particularly of the less developed areas of the globe. we cannot ignore the impact of biofuel production on food supplies. the incidence is even higher where populations are most affected by endemic shortages of primary goods. at the same time, however, it is unthinkable to ignore the scale of the investments already made or planned for the coming years by biofuel producers. a synthesis was needed that took this into account, but did not preclude the further development of second generation biofuels, which undoubtedly have a lower negative impact. the union must promote the transition to the second generation - gradually, without unfair penalties - since the consequences of the current system are no longer acceptable. the withdrawal of land from food production, with the consequent rise in food prices, the indiscriminate rush to grab land has had negative effects on the populations, who have paid a high price that europe can no longer afford. we know that we could have dared more and found the courage to take initiatives that would have brought more benefits to citizens and the global system.
in writing. - the vote in plenary today gave european citizens a double guarantee. on the one hand, the introduction of a 6% maximum threshold for the use of first generation biofuels is a positive element in protecting food security. over the past decade, the push for biofuels as a solution to energy over-reliance has led to excessive competition between food crops and biofuel crops, triggering a spiral of rising food prices. the commission also found that the exporting producers concerned had not provided any evidence that the measures in force were in breach of the undertaking. on the other hand, reaching a minimum threshold for the consumption of energy from advanced biofuels by 2020 will preserve investments already made in the sector and encourage the search for alternative solutions for energy production. unfortunately, the low figure of 2.5% foreseen for this threshold represents a missed opportunity to foster real innovation in the sector. i hope, however, that the council will reach a common position close to that voted today in plenary, in order to ensure that our citizens have a sustainable energy strategy in the long term as soon as possible.
in writing. - i supported this resolution. while existing investments should be protected, the aims of the commission's proposal are to limit the contribution of conventional biofuels to the objectives set by the renewable energy directive. the greenhouse gas performance of biofuel production processes should also be improved by increasing the greenhouse gas reduction threshold, protecting installations already in operation on 1 july 2014; finally, the market penetration of advanced biofuels should be encouraged, enabling them to contribute more to the objectives of the renewable energy directive than conventional biofuels.
in writing. − the report on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and the quality of petrol and fuel, the so-called iluc (emissions associated with land use change for biofuels), sets as a main objective the use of 10% of renewable energy for transport by 2020. the impact of indirect land-use change on greenhouse gas emissions needs to be reviewed to be reduced in line with ongoing investments and production activities. the research into alternative materials must also be encouraged if we are to achieve this goal in the time allotted and protect the health of citizens through the increased use of renewable energies.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. environmental protection is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in order to achieve these objectives, transport is a strategic area for action. it is therefore of the utmost importance to take advantage of the progress made in research and innovation and thus to encourage the use of biofuels and bioliquids. however, in parallel, the indirect land use change factor (iluc) needs to be integrated into the methodology used to determine the effects of biomass fuels on the ecosystem. in addition, the possible impact on the market value of the raw materials involved in the production process of those biofuels and thus the possible social impact should be carefully assessed. for these reasons, i consider this proposal for a directive to be an appropriate response to the need to examine the problem of greenhouse gas emissions in greater depth in the light of new sustainability criteria and new possible alternatives.
in writing. - as the rapporteur has pointed out, the european eel stock is subject to a host of problems: over-exploitation, loss of critical habitats, pollution, pests, changes in ocean currents as a result of global climate change, and so on. there are also many unknowns regarding the size of the stock, the conditions leading to the determination of the sex of the eels and the possibility that the repopulated eels become full-fledged breeders. according to recent scientific advice from the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices, 2012), the condition of the stock remains critical and urgent action is needed. the stock has exceeded safe biological limits and fishing at current levels is not sustainable. it is essential that the commission, by aligning the regulation with articles 290 to 291 tfeu, adopt, by means of delegated and implementing acts, measures to address this critical situation.
in writing. - the question of the recovery of the european eel stock is at odds with the fact that the current regulation rightly places the recovery as a central element of the management plans for the eel, without however imposing any conditions and without any guidelines aimed at the result, that is to say that we have ensured that the recovery operation has as its outcome actual possibilities for recovery. it is therefore right to proceed with a new and more effective regulation.
in writing. - the european eel stock is subject to a myriad of problems: over-exploitation, loss of critical habitats, pollution, pests, changes in ocean currents as a result of climate change at the global level. added to this are other scientific uncertainties: to name just a few: the size of the stock is uncertain, the conditions leading to the determination of the sex of the eels are unclear and the possibility that the repopulated eels become full-fledged breeders remains a major question mark. the unknowns also concern the monitoring and control of the exploitation of eels, due to the mismatch between the catch and export data in the different databases, as well as the fate of a significant part of the catches and an international black market for eels that is known but not quantified. the exploitation of eel populations is a worldwide export activity with an estimated value of more than eur 10 billion between 1997 and 2007. the stock situation remains critical and urgent action is needed. the stock has exceeded safe biological limits and fishing at current levels is no longer sustainable. we have to move fast!
in writing. - today's vote has definitively exposed the deception and manipulation of the political debate which has been taking place in sardinia over the last few months on the adoption of the union customs code. the president of the region and the centre-right forces who support him have distorted the meaning of the political battle that for years sardinian citizens, associations and political forces have been waging for the full recognition of regional autonomy and for the definition of credible solutions to our insularity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives, including the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training, which will be set up in the near future. it is time to resume a serious debate and work on what can be done concretely in sardinia to support businesses and create jobs: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use.
in writing. the commission has proposed a revision of the community customs code to adapt certain provisions of the regulation establishing it to the evolution of customs legislation and to align it with the requirements of the lisbon treaty. the customs union is a fundamental element of the single market which can only function properly if the rules of modern customs systems are applied in a uniform manner across the member states. i agree with the rapporteur that the verification of further simplifications in the application of customs legislation by means of computerised procedures can be beneficial for the development of a dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and growth, but on condition that the scope and time limit of such verification are made explicit in the regulation itself. i am concerned about the commission's proposal for a number of derogations for one or more member states on the compulsory use of electronic data interchange between customs administrations and economic operators. this strategy would involve a two-speed approach to customs procedures in the union with the risk of widening the gap between those states that choose to invest and those that do not. i therefore believe that it would be essential for the code to be applied uniformly in all 28 member states of the union.
in writing. - i am in favour of this revision of the union customs code, proposed by the commission, in order to bring it into line with the lisbon treaty and the regulatory developments. the uniform and consistent application of the code by member states is a key condition for deriving the maximum benefit from it for the whole single market. i very much share the need to simplify procedures by means of computerised procedures in order to develop a more dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and growth. many other adjustments seem to me to be effective and aimed at improving the operation of the code, such as those relating to the enhancement of the status of economic operator, and the one on the need to provide for the entry summary declaration of a product to be regulated not already by delegated acts. i therefore believe that i can support them in the hope that they will be implemented as soon as possible to improve the operation of the whole system and to the benefit of the european market.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to adapt the union customs code to developments in customs legislation and other relevant areas and to the procedural requirements resulting from the lisbon treaty. the main elements of innovation are: the use of electronic systems by member states, the verification of further simplifications by computerised procedures, rules on the acquisition of the origin and preferential origin of goods. with a view to the proper functioning of the customs union, i have supported the updating of common customs systems and rules.
in writing. - european customs are the gateway for goods entering our continent: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is true that italy has quite strict customs controls, especially when compared to the complacent ports of northern europe: the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. there are few countries for which the defence of domestic and quality products is a central point: for others there are different priorities and therefore different approaches. in my view, customs should be the starting point for a serious fight against counterfeiting, especially asian counterfeiting, which has brought entire sectors, starting with textiles, to their knees for centuries, especially tuscany and pratese. the european union should therefore have uniform rules, applied in the same way: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − given that a common, consistent customs rule is a prerequisite for the functioning of a single market, the union customs code is a critical element in regulating the european economy. in order to adjust to the evolution of institutions and facilitate the eu integration process and, in the meantime, promote competitiveness and economic growth, it is necessary to simultaneously ensure free movement of goods, control international trade and protect consumers, which cannot be achieved without aligning the union customs code to a more modernised, harmonised and uniform customs environment. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal to revise the union customs code.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code (recast) because i believe that the customs union is a fundamental element of the functioning of the single market. it can only function properly if customs rules and systems are based on state-of-the-art systems applied in a uniform and consistent manner. this regulation will ensure a dynamic environment in terms of competitiveness and growth, while providing an appropriately uniform level of control of goods.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the database provided for in it must continue to be updated and provide the european commission with the data needed to calibrate the common agricultural policy. i agree with the rapporteur's approach in principle.
in writing. the proposal approved today concerns the agricultural accountancy information network (arin) which was set up in 1965 to meet certain needs of the cap, in particular those relating to income and the analysis of the economic functioning of agricultural holdings. over time, fisr has evolved and the network has expanded to all the member states that have become part of the eu. it is an important tool for the development and evaluation of agricultural policies, as it collects data on income, costs and revenues from a representative sample of eu farms each year. the sample currently includes some 80 000 enterprises out of the approximately 6 million in the eu-27. the rica therefore enables the commission to analyse the economic-structural situation and to calculate a series of indicators concerning incomes, productivity and production costs. this information is important in the context of changes to the cap, as it also supports the various research institutes involved in agricultural policy and rural development analysis and simulation.
in writing. − the farm data accountancy network (fdan), established in 1965, is a database program that plays an important role in providing data to support the commission and various research institutes in conducting economic analysis and evaluation of agricultural policies. the proposed changes in regulations optimise the management and maintenance of fdan. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the proposal aims to align the commission's current implementing powers, as defined in council directives on coffee extracts, cocoa and chocolate products, food sugars, fruit jams, jams and jellies, and concentrated and dehydrated milk, with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. i voted in favour of this proposal with my colleagues from the ppe group.
in writing. - this report makes technical amendments to existing directives as a result of the application of the treaty of lisbon. what is being discussed is therefore the procedural aspects and what the european commission, within its implementing powers, can and cannot do. i applaud the way in which the colleagues who dealt with it conducted the negotiations.
in writing. − what is worth highlighting is the flexible and open approach suggested by the rapporteur, who proposes to limit the delegation to a (renewable) period of five years and to monitor the delegation of power by asking the commission to report on this before the end of each five-year period. the rapporteur highlights in this respect the approach taken in the recent amendment of the fruit juice directive (directive 2012/12/eu) where the annex containing the names, definitions and characteristics of the products was excluded from the scope of the delegation. it is clear that those essential elements do not need to be amended by means of delegated acts. the rapporteur agrees with the proposal to abolish the powers conferred on the commission to adapt existing directives to the general eu provisions applicable to foodstuffs, as they are already covered by existing food law.
in writing. − under current regulations, texts are rather ambiguous and not specific or appropriate enough to ensure food safety directives confer promptly their power on the commission. the proposed new wording modifying these texts is a successful solution to this problem. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i agree with the general objective of this amendment to the directive. i believe that environmental impact assessment should be of fundamental importance in the decision-making process on public projects which may reduce green space, and that this priority should be given in a feasible, practical and not excessively costly way. that is why i do not share the rapporteur's approach on certain points.
in writing. − directive 2011/92/eu provides for a legal obligation to carry out an environmental impact assessment (eia) of public and private projects that may have a significant impact on the environment, before they are authorised. there is a consensus that the main objective of the directive has been achieved; the principles of environmental assessment have been harmonised across the eu by introducing minimum requirements concerning the type of projects to be assessed, the main obligations of the contractor, the content of the assessment and the participation of the competent authorities and the public. at the same time, within the permitting process, the eia is a tool to assess the environmental costs and benefits of specific projects in order to ensure their sustainability. as a result, the directive has become a key instrument for mainstreaming environmental issues and has produced both socioeconomic and environmental benefits, as well as protection of the urban environment.
in writing. - i think it is always desirable to simplify the issuing of visas to certain categories of foreign nationals, provided that students and researchers are among them. in this way, the eu enriches itself with human capital and ideas, and creates the conditions for the development of these assets in the countries of origin. that's why i voted for this deal.
in writing. - i support the visa agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde. the proposal, by introducing the important principle of reciprocity, aims at a positive continuation of the already good relations between the two partners. i support the report because i consider the republic of cape verde to be a reliable and stable country and because i see no criticism in the proposal.
in writing. − this initiative, which simplifies the procedures for issuing short-stay visas to specific categories of cape verdean and eu citizens, is to be welcomed. i would like to stress that italy welcomes this agreement in the wider context of visa facilitation. i would also like to point out that my country has also concluded a representation agreement with portugal, which has set up a 'common application centre' with eu funding, and this is proving to work very well.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement because it simplifies the procedure for citizens when travelling between europe and cape verde. freedom of movement is one of the fundamental rights of the european union; facilitating the issue of visas promotes this right and reduces the cost associated with travelling, which particularly benefits frequent travellers such as students and researchers participating in seminars. as the republic of cape verde is a stable democratic country with good governance, rule of law, and strong historical relations with europe, facilitating the issue of short-stay visas will be unlikely to affect the security of the union. the implementation of this agreement will also encourage cape verde to strengthen its relations with europe.
in writing. − in the context of the eu/cfsp special partnership, the european union has pursued a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-recipient relationship and aims to deepen relations with cape verde, promote good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the building of an information and knowledge society, regulatory and technical convergence. the republic of cape verde is a democratic and stable country. the high level of governance practices and standards that the country can boast of is a good reason to continue developing relations with the european union. two agreements are under consideration to further push the boundaries of the area of freedom, security and justice, extending it beyond the european union. i therefore voted in favour, together with my colleagues from the epp.
in writing. - in italy in particular, we often have problems with the expulsion of irregular immigrants. there was a chance of an agreement with cape verde, and i did not miss the opportunity to vote in favour. solidarity must not mean opening our doors to those who have no right to remain in europe.
in writing. - i support the report because it deals with the readmission of cape verdean citizens whose stay is irregular. these obligations are mutual and also apply to family members and minor unmarried children. given the shared nature of the text, i vote in favour.
in writing. - today's vote in the european parliament marks a new milestone in relations between the eu and the republic of cape verde. the principle of reciprocity will facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas, thus facilitating reciprocal travel for citizens of both countries. the political importance of this agreement goes far beyond eu-cape verde relations, as it is the first agreement between acp countries and the eu on short-stay visas. i hope that parliament, as the expression of citizenship, will be kept informed by the commission on the progress of these agreements.
in writing. - i welcome this recommendation in the context of the eu-cape verde special partnership, the european union has committed itself to a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-recipient relationship and is aimed at deepening relations with cape verde, promoting good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the building of an information and knowledge society, regulatory and technical convergence. the republic of cape verde is a democratic and stable country. cape verde, like the european union, adheres to the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. in 2007, the commission adopted a communication on the future of relations between the european union and cape verde, in which it recognised the existence of strong and specific historical relations between the two parties, characterised by close human and cultural ties and shared socio-political values. the high level of governance practices and standards that the country can boast of is a good reason to continue developing relations with the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement because it simplifies procedures for citizens when travelling between europe and cape verde. freedom of movement is one of the fundamental rights of the european union; granting readmission of persons residing without authorisation promotes this right and reduces the cost associated with applications for readmission, which particularly benefits frequent travellers such as students and researchers participating in seminars, and reduces associated costs to the union. as the republic of cape verde is a stable democratic country with good governance, rule of law, and strong historical relations with europe, granting readmission of persons residing without authorisation will be unlikely to affect the security of the union. the implementation of this agreement will also encourage cape verde to strengthen its relations with europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the rate of youth unemployment has reached unacceptable levels in many member states. i think that the resources allocated to the fight against unemployment are totally insufficient. for this reason i agree with the report about the importance of strategic investment of eu structural funds for regional development, competitiveness and sustainable jobs.
in writing. − it is extremely important that the eu continues to inspire young people in this time of crisis. by providing more opportunities in education and in all forms of training, by investing in young people and supporting an entrepreneurial and innovative spirit, by courageously funding programmes for young people and by believing that every euro invested in the new generation has exponential effects on europe's growth, as well as on its future social cohesion. the eu has the right policies and instruments to achieve these goals, but it is up to the member states to decide. with the eu youth strategy, we are sending clear messages, setting priorities and developing guidelines. it is up to the member states, especially those facing the most serious problems, to adhere to these guidelines in an effective and timely manner. we must speed up the pace, correct or subsidize ineffective initiatives and always remain true to a historic call for the eu. in the face of pessimistic estimates and gloomy forecasts, we must remain optimistic about the achievement of our objectives. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr papanikolaou because i fully share parliament's decision to express itself on such a crucial and often insufficiently considered subject. i join the call for greater attention to be paid to the problems of youth unemployment, which is growing alarmingly in many countries. i also appreciate the reference to new technologies, which can indeed prove to be a very useful tool in support of community and national policies.
in writing. - first of all, we must be clear and explicit: the resources allocated to the fight against youth unemployment under the future mff, namely eur 6 billion, are still insufficient and need to be significantly increased. however, it should also be noted that the eu - despite endemic funding shortages - has done and is doing its part. on the other hand, it is scandalous that some italian regions do not use the european funds made available. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. priority should be given to youth employment, with particular attention to vulnerable groups at high risk of social exclusion, in particular neets and disadvantaged young people, who need training pathways aimed at integration into the workforce. more needs to be done, aware that europe can contribute actively, but that alone, without the contribution of the member states (and the regions benefiting from european funds) it will not be able to solve one of the most serious problems that the crisis has caused.
in writing. - the youth issue is now the big issue in the old europe. this challenge is about the opportunities we will be able to offer our young people. i would remind you that on 27 april 2009, the commission published for the first time a communication setting out a new eu youth strategy, aimed at establishing a framework for cooperation on youth-related issues for the next decade and providing young people with more and better opportunities. the eu youth strategy has focused mainly on youth employability, encouraging entrepreneurship and promoting youth participation. we can say that, however, all this is still not enough. youth unemployment rates - especially in the mediterranean member states - are increasingly worrying. the challenge of a european strategy for youth is, as the rapporteur has pointed out, to give the european parliament greater centrality as an institution of control and guarantee. the real answer, however, is to focus on the effectiveness of the measures, the spendability of the funds, the facilitation of access to eu contributions and measures to make the most of the available resources.
in writing. − i strongly supported this resolution, although it cannot be ignored that this text refers to the implementation of the strategy in the three-year period 2010-2012, while we already have to look ahead. the new cycle of the eu youth strategy (2013-2015), which the commission proposes to focus on youth employment, will target those not in employment, education or training and will make full use of eu funding. the impact of the crisis on young people should be addressed more effectively, given the unacceptable levels of youth unemployment, especially in the southern eu, such as greece (59,1% in january 2013), spain (55,9%), italy (38,4%) and portugal (38,3%). to meet this challenge, member states need to make full use of the eu funding available and make the most of the opportunities offered by the youth opportunities initiative for young people not in employment or in education or training.
in writing. − the union has adopted a youth strategy to ensure that sufficient opportunities in education, innovation and professional training for young people are provided. providing such opportunities is of even greater importance considering the current state of the labour market in the aftershocks of the crisis. for a promising future for us europeans, it is necessary to invest a portion of the eu budget to support the development of young people which will, i believe, be a rewarding investment. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal to send the signal of continually and consistently implementing the eu youth strategy to the member states.
in writing. − on 27 april 2009, the commission published a communication setting out a new strategy for youth, aimed at creating a framework for cooperation in this area for the next decade with the aim of providing young people with better opportunities. i voted in favour of mr papanikolaou's report because it proposes concrete initiatives to address the challenges facing young europeans in the coming years, particularly in the fields of education and training, employment and youth entrepreneurship. the european union must send a clear and optimistic message to young people that europe has the capacity and the strength to overcome the current crisis.
in writing. - europe faces many challenges in the coming years. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new financial instruments, including the european regional development fund, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's new financial instruments. i therefore voted in favour of mr papanikolau's report.
in writing. − i support this report because it emphasises that we need to tackle youth unemployment as a priority problem in the eu. in june 2013, 23.5 % of active young people were jobless, with the rates ranging from 10 % or less in austria and germany to 64.2 % in greece. this situation has alarming consequences for young individuals, lowering their self-esteem, leaving their ambitions unrealised, reducing their earnings and career prospects, and delaying their opportunity to take up an independent adult life. for this reason we call on the commission to develop a one-year relief plan to tackle youth unemployment by creating jobs for at least 10 % of the young people affected, and on national parliaments to hold their governments responsible for delivering on the youth guarantee scheme, and to ensure that serious steps are taken to ensure that each young person (unemployed or having left formal education) will within four months receive either a good-quality offer of employment, continued education, an apprenticeship or a traineeship.
in writing. - the current situation of young people in the labour market is complex. unemployment among people of working age reaches a level of 11%, while among young people this rate is twice as high at 23%. the lack of jobs and the prospects of rapid negative changes for young people are reflected in the worsening demographic situation in europe. young people put off the decision to start a family indefinitely because of the uncertain prospect of a career. for this reason, in my view, the fight against youth unemployment must include the harmonization of employment policy reforms with measures to stimulate a general economic recovery. one of the reasons for the high levels of youth unemployment, alongside the lack of work experience, is inadequate qualifications. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to organise and support national and european campaigns to promote appropriate vocational training. at the same time, it is becoming essential that member states recognise informal training or skills acquired outside the formal education system. these can make a positive contribution to a young person's personal development, strengthening their social integration and improving their position on the labour market.
in writing. − all actions undertaken by the member states must be assessed for effectiveness, the mechanisms introduced must be monitored as they evolve and the funds allocated must be actually paid. the very difficult situation of young people requires decisive action and the investment of adequate financial resources, but in the current economic situation in europe, where the policy of financial consolidation is dominant, these means must be well targeted and bring about a clear correction of the situation. it is very important to ensure that young people have a high-quality training course for a qualification, to provide adequate financial support to those who will organise this training course, and to introduce a mandatory monitoring system to ensure that the appropriate level of training is maintained and that it is effective. further strong promotion of the practice for a qualification is needed among employers, who must treat this system as a possibility of preparing people for concrete work situations. it is also necessary to support further development of vocational education, to organise and support european and national campaigns promoting vocational education and to monitor european strategies for professional practice. that is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - with today's vote, parliament has once again confirmed its commitment to combating youth unemployment. this is a scourge that affects every european country and which, if not tackled with serious reforms of employment policy and adequate financial resources, risks jeopardizing the future of the new generations. the crisis measures adopted by most eu countries have reduced public spending, leading to cuts in education, training and support services; it is time to reverse this trend and secure a future for our young people. we must ensure that the member states and the commission take action through action plans on youth employment which define measures that are valid not only in the short, but also in the medium and long term. the data available to us unfortunately confirm that the situation of young people is bound to worsen further, especially in the absence of concrete action. i voted for a living income because i believe that every young person has the right to a stable, quality and decent-paying job. failure to act, or to act through inadequate measures, means robbing entire generations of the prospect of a better future than that of our parents.
in writing. - the figures for youth unemployment are worrying: 5.5 million up to 25 years. a huge number that gives a glimpse of a bleak future. as a young member of parliament, i am very sensitive to this issue, which i consider to be a political priority for the eu as well as for the member states. i welcome the recent approval of the 'youth guarantee' instrument, although i believe that, in order to be really effective, it should be extended to young people up to the age of 30. i put a question to the council on 22 may, but i am still waiting for an answer. i agree with all the measures mentioned in this report. in this period of severe economic crisis and shortage of public resources, it is necessary to use the available funds in the most effective way. the support for entrepreneurship is urgent and indefinite, as are forms of tax exemptions or reductions for businesses to create new jobs. the need to identify ways of communicating between the world of work and business is to facilitate the meeting of demand and supply. it is inconceivable that we should speak of 'inadequate qualifications' and 'waste of brains' - highly qualified young people who could contribute to the building of our society's well-being but who are relegated to playing much lower roles.
in writing. − given that youth unemployment has reached intolerable levels in the eu countries (23%), all efforts must be focused on putting every possible tool in the hands of the european institutions and the member states to ensure that at least 10% of unemployed young people find a job. the report is going in the right direction. the three pillars envisaged (quality education and training; support for smes; promotion of traineeships and apprenticeships) can indeed make a contribution, provided that they are accompanied by other 'structural' interventions. modernising education policies, with more efficient use of the individual career guidance system and a system for monitoring future job offers, can make higher education choices more conscious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, young people must know how to start their own economic activity, and they must have a system of facilities and preferential conditions in the form of tax exemptions or reductions. in this respect, the second pillar is certainly a good contribution. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution, but with the aim of ensuring that it does not remain an isolated instrument.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs skrzydlewska's report because europe's economic recovery depends on employment and there will be no future for the union if we cannot guarantee a decent future for our young people. according to the latest eurostat data on 30 august 2013, the youth unemployment rate in italy is 39.5%. in greece and spain, the figure was 62.9% and 56.1% respectively. these figures are worrying to say the least. europe has set itself the target of raising the employment rate for people aged 20 to 64 to 75% by 2020, and we cannot ignore this. in 2011, the economic loss associated with youth unemployment was estimated at eur 153 billion in the member states, or around 1,2% of the union's gdp. to create 2 million jobs, however, would require less than 10 billion euros. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states and the regional and local authorities to join forces in this direction.
in writing. the report condemns the growing youth unemployment for vaguely pre-setting the implementation of common actions to combat it. i shall abstain as i do not think it is sufficient to make 'rhetorical' statements; the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation for the benefit of the taxpayer.
in writing. - it is important that the rapporteur has emphasised, in the context of the ways out of the long and thorny issue of youth unemployment, the value of public support and improved cooperation between employment services, employment counselling services, institutions, training institutes and youth support services. it is important that the prevention of early school leaving was not forgotten, among other issues, and finally, it is particularly agreeable that the fight against youth unemployment should be carried out within the framework of a more general action to stimulate economic recovery and reform employment policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by ms joanna katarzyna skrzydlewska because it is a way for the european parliament to make its voice heard in support of one of the key pillars of recovery in the eu: a guarantee of stable, long-term and qualified employment for young people. the report commits the commission and the council to review the budget allocated to the employment chapter in the 2014-2020 budget, citing the inadequacy of the 6 billion provided for in the youth guarantee to address unemployment. in europe there are 5.5 million young people unemployed, while the neet threshold, those who are not in education or work, has reached 15%, with a negative impact on european gdp of -1.2%, and 2 million jobs to be filled. if the eu is serious about taking care of these numbers, more funds are needed to promote education, training, employment and the modernisation of employment systems, but above all we need to direct incentives towards regions and local authorities, the only ones who really know the local labour market and its needs.
in writing. - the situation of young people in europe is dramatic, especially in some countries, such as italy; the data are frightening, with youth unemployment peaking at around 50%: that means that one out of every two people in this age group is out of the job market. the social buffer is often the family, but it is clear that this situation cannot last for long: the young people are the future of society and should have the opportunity to play a direct role from the start, rather than being left to their parents for years. the other day in this house we were discussing mortgages: it is an example like many others, but one that illustrates the tragedy of the situation of young people today. the dream of owning a house is often destined to remain so, and the lack of employment also affects the chances of building and consolidating one's own family, with a child that has become a luxury that few can afford. we cannot delay any longer . the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because the situation of young people in the labour market is very difficult. unemployment among people of working age reaches a level of 11%, while among young people this index is twice as high and stands at 23%. today, there are over 5.5 million unemployed people under 25 in the european union. there is a significant variation between member states - while in germany and austria the unemployment rate does not exceed 9%, in greece and spain, which are in the throes of the crisis, it is already above 55%. this situation creates a bleak outlook for the young person entering adulthood. the lack of jobs and the prospects of rapid negative changes for young people are reflected in the worsening demographic situation in europe. young people put off the decision to start a family and become parents indefinitely, as they face an uncertain career. for this reason, the fight against youth unemployment must be harmonized with actions based on incentives for general economic recovery and reforms of employment policy. that is why i supported the amendment by mr angelilli which calls for a tax relief for companies that employ young people.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the fight against youth unemployment: possible solutions. the present employment situation is described by worrying data: the unemployment rate in the european union is 11%, but if you look at the category of young people under 25, the figure rises alarmingly to 23%. to combat this phenomenon, it is therefore urgent to adopt flexible measures which take account of regional specificities. firstly, young people must be given training adapted to the needs of the labour market and a counselling system to inform and guide them in their choice of educational path. as regards the current integration into the professional sphere, however, it is necessary to encourage private initiative, to simplify administrative procedures and to provide young people with tax exemptions and benefits. mobility must also be encouraged by means of a smooth and regulated community coordination system. i therefore consider this proposal useful in order to act on the two fronts of modernising education and integrating young people into a more open and inclusive world of work.
in writing. - the skrydlewska report was voted on today in plenary. in the european union, the number of unemployed people aged 25 and under is over 5.5 million. the lack of experience and skills unsuited to the needs of the labour market are increasing. the lack of employment is also reflected in the demographic situation in europe. young people put off the decision to start a family indefinitely because of the uncertain future they face in their careers. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that efforts to combat youth unemployment must be based on a comprehensive strategy, including measures to support smes, promote entrepreneurship among young people, reduce school failure and extend to holders of qualifications up to the age of 30 the system approved by the epsco council which currently guarantees young people under 25 a job, training or traineeship within four months of their registration on the unemployment register. in this context, particular attention should be paid to important elements such as the funds earmarked for this purpose from a separate budget line and from the european social fund which can be a real support to the member states in difficult times of crisis.
in writing. in europe, the unemployment rate among people of working age is 11%, while among young people it is twice as high, at 23%. i have chosen to support mr skrzydlewska's report because the fight against youth unemployment must be implemented through actions based on incentives for a general economic recovery and through employment policy reforms, through initiatives aimed at supporting entrepreneurship and creating new jobs. the effective improvement of the situation of young people depends to a large extent on the strengthening of cooperation between employment services, training institutions and youth support services, which also actively involve the social partners and representatives of young people or youth organisations.
in writing. the situation of young people in the labour market is unfortunately dramatic, with percentages exceeding 20% in almost all member states. the fight against youth unemployment must therefore be combined with measures based on the stimulus of a general economic recovery and on reforms of employment policy: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
in writing. - the report by mrs corazza bildt merely takes stock of the application of the services directive. but it is not the text that businessmen and service providers were expecting. it is however positive that some amendments have been incorporated which highlight the difficulties in implementing and interpreting the services directive for certain professional and business categories. more importantly, it has highlighted the increasing bureaucratic burdens on smes and the difficulties in accessing credit. thanks to an amendment tabled with many other colleagues, on authorizations/concessions, it was reiterated that a fair return must be guaranteed and not just a fair depreciation of investments. i did not, however, vote in favour of the report. i take this opportunity to call on the european commission to pay greater attention to the seaside tourism sector, which, with its more than 30 000 businesses, represents an italian excellence and specificity in europe. a sector which should have been excluded from the services directive, but which now needs specific legislation to safeguard jobs and business continuity.
in writing. - the rejection by the centre-right majority of all the amendments tabled to this report has convinced me to vote against its adoption. the rejection of references to social security and labour legislation in the service sector and the reactionary idea that economic development can only be achieved by regulating this and other sectors demonstrates, once again, the blindness of conservative and right-wing forces. they have not yet understood that the solution to the economic crisis and the lack of competitiveness of european companies cannot be found in the abolition of social and labour rights.
in writing. - the liberalisation of the services market is undoubtedly an important lever for overcoming the economic crisis. it has been estimated that its full implementation could bring it to around 2,6% of gdp. this requires every effort to fully implement the services directive. i believe that bureaucracy, which is sometimes an insurmountable obstacle, especially for smes, must be reduced, as must discriminatory practices affecting consumer confidence. i also share the need to create an interaction with the vocational qualifications directive, because it is appropriate for the states to abolish as soon as possible unjustified requirements that block access to certain professions. within the member states there are different entities, some of which are subject to the strict application of the services directive, but which will hardly bring added value to the european market. i am thinking of the italian maritime concessions, which the european commission considers to be authorizations, which would have to comply with strict competition rules, although it is a very limited sector, typical and representative of italy. in cases like this, i would like to see a real balance of interests in order to see what real potential benefits would be gained from the strict application of the directive in terms of jobs, welfare and economic growth.
in writing. - this is a completely inadequate resolution and that is why i have voted against it. the liberal approach which pervades it does not in any way call into question the negative effects which are also inherent in a simplistic application of the directive. in particular, it is not taken into account that - with the onset of the most serious economic and financial crisis europe has known since the end of the second world war - the implications for the companies concerned and, above all, the social implications for workers have changed completely. it cannot be ignored that the application of the directive at this stage must take account of the particularities of the territories, also in relation to the different impact of the crisis on the different regions of europe. in some circumstances parliament has lacked the courage. that is not the case: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. for these reasons i have voted against.
in writing. − the internal market committee has drawn up a further own-initiative report on the 'bolkestein' for its future stages. in view of the poor results achieved so far, our delegation does not share this text. it also contains false statements such as that 'bolkestein has delivered tangible results in terms of growth and employment'. the data coming from our territory says exactly the opposite. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - we all agree, or almost, in this house on the benefits that the internal market has brought. we certainly also agree that companies are subject to a long list of requirements which, taken individually, seem harmless, but which, taken together, constitute a serious burden for smes. articles 15 and 16 of the directive allow member states to decide whether certain national requirements may be maintained on the basis of checks of necessity and proportionality. unfortunately, too often some member states have interpreted the right to protect and promote national markets and professions too broadly. the member states must instead tackle responsibly, as a matter of priority, the so-called 'grey areas'. in particular, burdensome legal forms and shareholding requirements, territorial restrictions and economic necessity checks prevent establishment in another member state, hamper the provision of services and exclude certain players from the market. for example, architects may be forced to change their business model to open a branch in another member state. this is unacceptable in a single market with common rules.
in writing. - i am voting against the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the internal market in services, which takes account of the present situation and the next steps. the construction of a common european model that promotes a balanced and sustainable social market economy is clearly a priority. in particular, the services sector, which accounts for 65% of the eu's gdp, is the engine that can pull member states out of recession. although the single market in this area has been strengthened by the services directive adopted in 2006, the latter has not been implemented with the desired effectiveness and homogeneity. that is why i think this proposal is not up to the task, especially because it does not provide answers and does not address social issues.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mrs anna maria corazza because it is a political instrument which has little to do with reality. the committee on the internal market has in recent months drawn up its own-initiative report on 'bolkestein' looking towards the future; unfortunately, this document does not seem to open up a full and frank debate. this directive should be amended in particular in so far as it requires that, in the case of authorizations for the pursuit of an activity involving the exploitation of a limited public asset, tenders must in no way provide for any right of priority, guarantee or reimbursement of investments made and not yet amortised for outgoing suppliers. the text must also be rejected as it has not produced any concrete results in terms of growth and employment.
in writing. the text presented by mrs corazza bildt calls on the member states to assume their responsibilities by correctly applying the services directive. the economic crisis has made it even more urgent to act to unlock the full potential of the services sector for growth and jobs.
in writing. - i am very pleased to have voted in favour of this proposal. we are talking about a state that is among the most advanced in its area in terms of economic and management of ethnic and cultural diversity. i believe there are many synergies to be exploited with malaysia and i hope that the negotiations will lead to cooperation that is as mutually beneficial as possible.
in writing. − this report is important first of all because the eu-malaysia partnership and cooperation agreement represents an exceptional opportunity to deepen eu-malaysia bilateral relations at a strategic and political level. in this context, malaysia's efforts to combat terrorism, money laundering, drug and arms trafficking and counterfeiting of travel documents must not be forgotten. nor can it be overlooked that the last elections have shown progress towards the establishment of a truly pluralistic democracy, while requiring the country's public authorities to produce an independent and impartial evaluation of the elections, following complaints of irregularities. the need to ensure effective religious freedom must be emphasized, without hesitation and with a firm response from malaysia.
in writing. the recommendation voted on today provides a basis for an optimistic dialogue in relations with malaysia. malaysia is a country that has shown a willingness to increase energy efficiency, renewable energy use and investment in green technologies in transport, energy and construction, despite being a large oil and gas producer. to also welcome the need to transform its economy into a low-carbon economy as part of its responsibilities in the global fight against climate change. malaysia, while undoubtedly one of the most successful economies in southeast asia, must invest progressively in academic and scientific knowledge if it is to achieve the higher standard of living and become a highly developed country. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively.
in writing. − cooperation between europe and malaysia has strengthened in the past few decades, and it is consistent with the mutual interests of europe and malaysia to further strengthen the cooperation, including but not limited to protection of women’s rights, international peacekeeping, and combating terrorism and money laundering. tourism between europe and malaysia, especially potential eco-tourism in malaysia, should also be encouraged. on the other hand, it is the union’s responsibility to encourage media freedom and freedom of expression in malaysia. therefore, i voted for this recommendation on the negotiations for the eu-malaysia partnership and cooperation agreement.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i have already said this in the committee on foreign affairs, so elmar brok is aware of it. i have a question, which is the same as that of other colleagues. we know very well - as the italian journalist who was kidnapped in syria said - that the weapons were used by the rebels, not only by the rebels, but also by them. we also know that the head of the un inspectors, ake sellstrom, is the same man who was the head of the inspectors in iraq. so we can expect a balanced approach?
mr president, the unfortunate experiences of iraq, the arab spring and egypt teach us that the consequences of our actions or our wishes often turn out differently from what we expect. in condemning the use of chemical weapons by anyone, it is equally important to stress that over a hundred thousand people were killed, raped and kidnapped, before the events of 21 august, without any strong and effective action by the international community. only now we're moving. military intervention would not necessarily win democracy and could instead hand over power to a politically uncohesive opposition, in which the jihadist component prevails. it would be absurd to wage a war to overthrow a tyrant and hand syria over to perpetual instability and perhaps al qaeda extremism. we must therefore pursue to the end the path of diplomacy that seems to be opening up with the recent russian proposals.
mr president, mr provera has made a perfect point of the matter. for my part, i would like to add that these terrible winds of war - which could have led to a world war with these warlike prospects - were blocked first by the metapolitical, prophetic words of pope francis, and then by a strong diplomatic initiative. i regret that the high representative of the european union has found only two words, let us say two words of numbers, to recall the tragedy of the position of christians in this country, because it is also about these people that we have to be concerned. we are concerned about refugees, but i am not concerned about that because i am sure that - and i know they are not hypocrites - the members who have been talking about solidarity for years will have no difficulty in taking in at least one or two syrian refugee families in their homes, and not at the expense of the state but at their own expense, given their salaries as meps. peace is built by deeds, not by hypocrisy or the useless demagogic words of parties!
blue-card question. – mr van orden, you say – and i agree – that dictators only understand force or the threat of force. so, in the case of the other dictators left after assad, what if instead of being discouraged by an attack they start doing exactly the opposite, and go into the nuclear game, if they have nuclear weapons, just as a way of being sure of not being attacked?
mr president, i am addressing baroness ashton directly, because the minute of time at my disposal does not allow for sophisticated analysis. it has been said that today we are faced with a new fact: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, while this new development suspends military intervention, it does not, as you know, resolve the civil war that is going on. that is why i ask you if it would not be useful to go beyond words, because we need concrete proposals and deeds, far beyond vilnius. if we want the diplomatic initiative to succeed, i do not think it is useful to accompany it with the threat of military action, but rather the european union should engage in a strong relaunch initiative because its role is to prepare the conditions and not to report on what others have done. i therefore ask you to consider asking the united states, russia and china to build together an intervention force to try to freeze the current situation on the ground and at the same time to start the peace conference. i expect you to be more aware of the role that the european union can really play.
mr president, mrs ashton, the european union's defence policy is now more closely linked than ever to its security and cooperation policies towards third countries. today we can perhaps say to some extent that the risk of bombing seems to be averted, at least for the time being, although the events of 21 august certainly add to the hypothesis of a crime against humanity which as such must be condemned. the only way is still the political solution, the dialogue, safeguarding both the rights of the civilians in syria and the refugees already 45,000 syrian refugees have arrived in europe and many more could come, increasing the already growing number of migrants in that area. we must therefore support this positive action through dialogue, and at the same time protect the southern european member states exposed to this migratory pressure in order to support the civil rights of refugees.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. president, baroness ashton, a tsunami has swept through egypt and they have called it the "arab spring". lies are no longer viable, public opinion does not accept hasty versions to motivate wars that are not very humane. the british parliament has failed to approve the war. the us congress thinks the same way, and in fact, obama has been slowing down in syria. it is right that you, baroness, support the proposal to control the chemical weapons in the possession of the syrian government, but i ask you not to omit the necessary verification of the chemical weapons in the hands of the so-called 'rebels' as well, since several sources testify to their use. it is urgent to redefine who is really a terrorist, both in syria and in egypt. we have no right to export democracies, either by bombing or by supporting groups, which are a worse cure for evil, as the persecution of christian minorities has shown. in egypt, 22 million egyptian citizens signed a petition against the government and 30 million took to the streets peacefully, but the muslim brotherhood refused to listen to reason and reacted with unprecedented violence. the army is currently in control of the situation, although not democratically elected, but it is defending those 30 million citizens and setting the conditions for new democratic elections. those who propose armed intervention in those countries only want to perpetuate the chaos, which risks spreading to our own country. we are acting with a diplomacy of peace, as you are doing, not just distributing contributions that rain down as they find time and for which, dear baroness, we will have to answer to our taxpayers. i only remember the 5 billion euros to egypt for the so-called 'democratic transition'. peace is not bought with money or with threats of war, but with the will to seriously negotiate peace and today september 11 and i would like to recall the infamous phrase uttered by the terrorists "with your laws we will conquer you and with ours we will destroy you".
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, the experience of morsi has been bitter. the current egyptian government says it wants to bring security and stability to a country on the brink of civil war. security and stability, which are also essential conditions for implementing the democratic reforms announced and for reviving the country's economy, which is in a very difficult situation. constitutional reform, new elections and president mansour's proposal with a roadmap for reforms to all parties that renounce violence are the foundations on which popular support for the current administration rests. but without an improvement in the living conditions of the common people, the consensus could quickly fade and with it the will to proceed with democratic reforms. we must work on this: the support to the population is insufficient because it is sporadic and intermittent; we must provide and provide structural support for the economic sector, the small and mediumsized tourist and craft industries, which i believe are the backbone of the country.
mr president, the relative calm in egypt today should not, i believe, be misleading. the situation that has developed since the coup and the removal of morsi is very complicated indeed and i fully understand the difficulties in which you and the external action service are moving. however, we have a very important task to contribute to the process of democratic transition and its stability. there are three areas where we should be working more closely. first, the process of constitutional revision: our commitment must be to constant monitoring so that egypt is given a constitution that safeguards the rights and freedoms of the people. the second field is the electoral process: we must give back to the egyptians as quickly as possible the right to choose who they want to be governed by, and we must be firm in our efforts to prevent the muslim brotherhood from being forced back into hiding. the third area is the preparation by us of an economic and financial plan to help the country to recover from the serious crisis in which it finds itself. we know that it is easier, or relatively easier, to strengthen democracy if it is accompanied by the solution of economic problems. this debate should also serve to encourage us to reflect on the so-called 'more for more' in order to make our neighbourhood policy more concrete towards all the countries of the region, starting, of course, with egypt.
mr president, the military coup of july left egypt in a very unstable dangerous situation. there were more than 1 000 victims and many more injured. i do not like the muslim brotherhood and similar groups but i am also firmly convinced that any act of exclusion against a political force that accepts democracy in egypt is wrong in itself and it can only lead to increased radicalism. indeed, the only way to build a sustainable democracy in egypt is the path of national reconciliation and an inclusive political process. moreover, the eu should not penalise the egyptian population by suspending our aid to their country. the eu should proceed with establishing an eu mechanism providing legal and technical assistance to arab spring countries in the process of asset recovery.
member of the commission on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, this was a fascinating debate: many thanks again for both the report and the debate. i would like to end with three remarks. firstly, let there be no doubt that the situation in belarus in terms of human rights and democracy remains of serious concern. against this background, i feel that the european union policy of critical engagement towards belarus remains valid. secondly, i would like to react to those who call on the european union to step up its role in dealing with belarus. i agree. i agree with those who say that the eastern partnership is a policy not only for good weather in our relationship with our partners, but also for bad weather; that it offers enough instruments, based on the principle of more for more and also less for less, for engaging with our partners. and that is what we have been trying to do recently. the participation by minister of foreign affairs makey in the recent eastern partnership ministerial meeting in july was an opportune contribution to such a debate. i am looking forward to continuing that debate this week in yerevan, where we are going to have a third informal partnership dialogue with the foreign ministers of our six partner countries. i heard some of you mentioning a couple of the important issues, so let me refer to some of them. the world ice hockey championship is an important occasion. let me tell you openly that i am not a friend of boycotts, in particular when it comes to sport, but this does not mean that we should not use this important sporting event to focus attention, not only throughout europe but throughout the world, on the human rights situation in belarus. it will be a great opportunity for us to make very clear the case we are discussing here: to belarus itself, in europe, and also throughout the world. another issue is that of civil society: since 2011 we have increased our support for civil society six-fold. let me make it absolutely clear, there has been no change in the commission’s policy on financing the activities of civil society in belarus. even civil society organisations which are not registered have means of benefiting from our support. i will send you an explanation in greater detail on that question and i will work with my colleagues on the potential for strengthening, not weakening, such involvement. another point that you mentioned a number of times concerns visas and visa facilitation. belarus is the only country in the world, to the best of my knowledge, which has not reacted to our offer to negotiate a visa facilitation agreement that would facilitate people-to-people contact. so, in the meantime, we will continue to work with the member states on making the best use of the visa code, to which some of you referred, and it is encouraging to see more member states using and strengthening the flexibility that the visa code affords them. my third concluding point is this: belarus can still use the opportunity open to it, and give us grounds to regard it more positively, in the context of the forthcoming eastern partnership summit, at which we hope to take a qualitative leap forward with our partners in the eastern partnership. i call upon the authorities of belarus to take the necessary steps to bring belarus back to the heart of europe where it belongs. the more openness to political and economic reform they demonstrate, the more engagement they will encounter on the part of the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 12 september 2013, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on russian pressure on eastern partnership countries (in the context of the next eastern partnership summit in vilnius) (2013/2826 (rsp)).
madam president, in view of the alleged pressure exerted by the russian federation on the states of eastern europe, i think we must ask ourselves: what is the state that does not defend its interests? we, as the european union, must ask ourselves the same question and set ourselves the same objective: we defend our interests! if we analyse the trade relations between the european union and russia in relation to those between the european union and the eastern partnership countries, it is clear from the comparison that relations with russia are by far the most important and that russia is the largest economic partner for the european union. in short, this simple comparison shows that russia's commercial role for our companies and our economic activities is very important. in this connection, i believe that the expansion and growth of these exchanges should be encouraged and promoted and that russia should be considered a resource and an important partner in the activation of privileged relations. i imagine that a programme of expansion of trade relations to the east which does not involve russia would be incomplete and might even create political friction between moscow and brussels. it is in our interest to understand and accept this fact as soon as possible because the european union has every interest in encouraging these relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european union is the world leader in the production, sale and export of seeds and seedlings. it is not just the big companies that are always talking about. this is what many small and mediumsized enterprises throughout the european union are doing. i think these companies will be happy to have a clear regulation on how they access genetic resources. this creates legal certainty and also facilitates access to new genetic resources, which is absolutely necessary for breeding, without which breeding is not possible. but we must not introduce rules which will make european breeding inferior to other competitors in the world and perhaps cause them to leave europe. i think there are five points which we must take into account when ratifying this protocol and when we adopt the report tomorrow. we cannot demand rules that go beyond the nagoya protocol. secondly, we must not allow the protocol to be applied retroactively. thirdly, we do not need special funds where money is stored, where it is not known where it is going, but where it is known where it is coming from - that is, from the companies. fourthly, there must be no legislation which calls into question the breeder's privilege. fifthly, there must be no chain of responsibility beyond the first user, the grower. i am convinced that if we enforce these five principles, then the implementation of the nagoya protocol will be beneficial for those working in the breeding sector and thus for small and mediumsized enterprises in europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, the internal security strategy implements one part of the stockholm programme, namely in the area of ‘protecting the citizen’. it is important to note that, in the post-stockholm period, we have to situate ourselves fully in the new institutional context created by the lisbon treaty, notably with regard to parliament’s welcome strengthened role in the legislative process and in international negotiations. reflection on the post-stockholm era is actively ongoing and the commission intends to present a communication on the future agenda for home affairs policies in march next year. this will go hand in hand with a communication on the future priorities on justice. the commission has taken the observations and recommendations set out in parliament’s resolution of 22 may 2012 on the eu’s internal security strategy into account in its second implementation report on the iss, and this will also influence the forthcoming third implementation report on the iss. the latter is planned for mid-2014 and will provide a third and final overview of progress in the implementation of the iss. the individual points of the resolution are also taken into consideration in relation to the relevant crime-specific or thematic activities of the commission’s dg home.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to thank both the commissioner and our rapporteur and chairman of the libe committee, mr lópez aguilar, for this question, for this report. we have tried to improve the document which parliament will be voting on on certain points which we consider to be fundamental. firstly, to improve the capacity to analyse natural hazards. we believe that even and especially in difficult times, such as floods, floods and earthquakes, the citizens of europe must find a europe that is ready and efficient, able to give immediate help and support. often, when some member states have been struck by natural disasters, our response has not been prompt or comprehensive, and solidarity - let us remember this - is one of the building blocks of our union. secondly, we have stressed the role of external border management in relation to internal security. in particular, we must ensure that migration flows are managed so that the large number of migrants europe is receiving does not have a negative impact on society. if immigrants are entitled to a humane and democratic welcome, it is also true that this is impossible when disproportionate numbers arrive on the shores of our member states. it is an element that creates discomfort, both for those who arrive and for those who are the object of arrival, which without regulation has a negative impact on society, causing insecurity among citizens. that is why a strategy for internal security cannot ignore these assessments. third point: the commission will also be making a special effort to combat violence against women and children: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child abuse, and it is therefore proposing to amend the directive to include the possibility of a ban on the use of child pornography. we shall therefore vote in favour of this report, even though there are some points which do not fully convince us, but it is more important that the european union should have a comprehensive strategy, one which gives certainty, guarantees and security to our citizens. that's why we're here.
mr president, commissioner, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has given the european parliament new and increased responsibilities, including in the governance of what is called the internal security strategy. president aguilar's proposal can only be supported, articulated as it is in terms of the priorities for action in an internal security policy which the european union must express fully and in concert with the member states. there is no doubt, for example, that the issue of cyber security is of particular importance, and the recently established european centre and the support it can give to europol and other agencies are moving in this direction, against systematic attacks and violations of the privacy and prerogatives of embassies as well as other important public or private entities. internal security also means a much more effective counteraction against terrorism as well as against mafias and organised crime: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of judicial cooperation in the member states. the information must be disseminated while protecting fundamental rights; the commission's report on the fight against organized crime, on which i am rapporteur on money laundering, can also be important in the fight against terrorism. so could the european public prosecutor. finally, migration and mobility: we need to better protect our sea and land borders by enhancing cooperation with more exposed countries, especially those in the south, which are under constant migratory pressure. protect refugees and displaced persons; to provide job opportunities for our young people. syria and egypt have highlighted the failure of the arab spring and not only that. we call on the member states to act with a sense of responsibility and solidarity. we need a new impetus, mr president, from the baltic to the mediterranean, a strong cooperation to ensure that this result, which is expected by more than 500 million european citizens, is a security goal.
mr president, first of all, welcome to the house and best wishes. i feel like i owe him that. today in italy, on the initiative of the athletics federation and the olympic committee, is celebrated the "mennea day": today is the anniversary of the unforgettable world record of 19 seconds and 72 cents set in mexico city in 1979 by pietro mennea. this record stood for 17 years, until michael johnson broke it in 1996. mennea died on march 21 last year, at the age of 60. i would like to mention mennea here because from 1999 to 2004 he was also a member of this parliament. he was the author of the mennea report helsinki report on sport and campaigned for the establishment of a european anti-doping agency, believing strongly in clean sport, free from bodies not always interested in promoting its crystal clear values. mennea's victory in 1979 was a moment of pride and redemption for southern italy, a land that at that time lacked facilities and sports organizations, but the stubborn strength of mennea, a young son of the south, trained on the street and with friends, managed to lead him to the conquest of the olympic gold embodying the dreams and hopes of an entire generation of young southerners. today in many squares of italy will take place sporting events to remember the champion barletta. in barletta and the other seven cities that have seen him play a leading role in successes, races will be held with the champions of yesterday and today. in conclusion, mr president, i thought it appropriate to pay tribute to him and to remember him here because he was a member of parliament committed to sport in this house in strasbourg and because this parliament too remembers him on mennea day.
mr president, welcome back from me too. the annual report of the european ombudsman is - as we have heard from other interventions - also an end-of-term budget because our friend mr diamandouros decided to interrupt his career before the natural end of the office, ending almost a decade with a budget in safe cash. the figures for participation, efficiency and satisfaction of citizens are evidence of mr diamandouros' commitment, which he has invested in recent years with a foresight to promote a better relationship between the european institutions and citizens. as chair of the committee on petitions, i am pleased to note the improved relationship between these two bodies - the ombudsman and the committee itself. this fruitful collaboration has shown that the network works and is a very valuable tool in support of people-to-people relations. the ombudsman and the committee on petitions help to build a relationship between citizens and the european institutions, giving substance to citizens' rights and ensuring that they are respected. today, when the european union is faltering, especially under the impact of the crisis, this function is fundamental and i am grateful to diamandouros for promoting it in such a qualified way.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i have nothing against greater supervision of the banking sector. if proper controls had been carried out in the past, the situation for many institutions would probably not have been so tragic. i would have liked to ask president draghi, who is absent today, where he was when all the problems were happening with the world's oldest credit institution, the monte dei paschi di siena. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the community. president draghi knew the real value of antonveneta because just two years earlier he had overseen the sale of abn amro to the dutch as an advisor to goldman sachs. i would not like the ecb to repeat these mistakes or these miscalculations, which are more or less deliberate in the area of banking supervision. in any case, the basic question is another: where does it say that all banks in difficulty must be bailed out? the only thing that should be done is to protect those who manage people's savings, not those who play happily on international markets. it is time to say no more to the use of citizens' money for speculative activities. all of this would be possible if we went back to the american glass-steagall model. all other banking initiatives are however marred by this fundamental problem, which should be solved as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the salavrakos report. the text does not simply list a number of statistics on the activities of the european ombudsman, but expresses a critical position by stressing the latter's inability to intervene concretely in cases of maladministration within the institutions.
in writing. - mr diamandouros has done a good job as european ombudsman in these ten years of his mandate. it has strengthened and deepened the dialogue with citizens, civil society, institutions and other stakeholders, and encouraged the eu institutions and bodies to be more transparent and more embedded in a culture of service. i hope, however, that the cooperation between the eu institutions and bodies and the ombudsman will further reduce the proportion of complaints for lack of transparency. the most appropriate way to ensure a significant change in the administrative culture of the eu institutions is for the commission to adopt binding common rules and principles on administrative procedure in the eu administration, by submitting a draft regulation under article 298 tfeu. in this respect, i consider that the experience gained to date by the ombudsman and the publication by the ombudsman of a new edition of the european code of good administrative behaviour - which takes account of the principles of european administrative law enshrined in the case law of the european courts - provide an appropriate orientation for the substance of this legislative proposal.
in writing. − the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2012 gives good hope for the usefulness and role of the institution. we must be grateful to prof. nikiforos p. diamandouros, the outgoing european ombudsman, for his work and - we are sure - the first woman to be elected ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, will not squander the legacy of her predecessor. the ombudsman's 2012 activity report has three positive aspects: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i hope that this will help the european citizens to feel the union closer to them.
in writing. the ombudsman is certainly an important figure and unfortunately too little known to the citizens of the european countries. any citizen of the union, any institution or organisation can turn to it to report cases of maladministration by any community institution or body, and we know that these cases are not few in number. it is presented as a third and independent body and should also serve to make the european institutions, which are often perceived as not being very transparent by citizens, feel less distant. in the nordic countries, the figure of the ombudsman, from which the european ombudsman derives, is highly respected and his function is considered very useful: the commission's proposal is designed to streamline judicial procedures and appeals and to promote a more direct relationship between the institutions and the public. we hope that in the coming years we too will develop an interest in this type of post, currently held by the irishman emily o'reilly: the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give its opinion on the case before it.
in writing. - on 3 july we voted for the election of the new european ombudsman, emily o'reilly. today, in the hope that the new ombudsman will follow in the footsteps of his predecessor diamandouros and ensure constant communication between institutions and citizens to improve the concept of european citizenship, we approved the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman for the year 2012. the text highlights how the ombudsman's work in 2012 focused on communication for effective and rapid access to information by citizens, simplification of procedures, transparency and efficiency of information.
in writing. − the role of the european ombudsman is of great relevance within european transnational mechanisms, as it strengthens and deepens the dialogue with civil society, institutions and other stakeholders at all levels. it also focuses on the integration of people with disabilities, which became its responsibility following the entry into force in the eu on 22 january 2011 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd), the first human rights treaty ever ratified by the eu. through his own-initiative inquiries, the ombudsman can closely monitor the activities of the eu administration. in the light of the ombudsman's important responsibilities, i welcome the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2012.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr salavrakos because, in the light of the difficult economic situation, it expresses a critical analysis of the many instances of maladministration in public administration. it reiterates that 42% of european citizens are not satisfied with the level of transparency in the eu administration, notes that complaints about transparency have always been at the top of the list of complaints to the ombudsman and finally reiterates that transparency and access to information are essential to maintaining trust between citizens and institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra amending the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders. the text is balanced and supports in particular both the amendments to the reciprocity mechanism and the introduction of the safeguard clause allowing for the rapid and temporary suspension of the visa exemption in emergency situations.
in writing. - i did not support mr giegold's report on the establishment of the european banking authority and the prudential supervision of credit institutions. this is yet another belated response by the eu, which, instead of acknowledging its ineffective management of the current crisis and focusing on finding truly effective solutions to improve the real economy, is hampered by the creation of new mechanisms.
in writing. - this report makes technical amendments to existing directives as a result of the application of the treaty of lisbon. what is being discussed is therefore the procedural aspects and what the european commission, within its implementing powers, can and cannot do. i applaud the way in which the colleagues who dealt with it conducted the negotiations.
in writing. - the 'yes' to this legislative package is an important first step towards the creation of a banking union that will strengthen our economic and monetary union. i think we are on the right track and i think we need to continue in this direction to achieve greater integration in the sector. the provision of a single supervisory mechanism is certainly an important achievement, but it is not yet sufficient. the road to stability in the euro area is still long and if we want to keep our businesses competitive, we cannot afford to take our foot off the accelerator.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs thyssen because i am firmly convinced of the need to build as soon as possible a genuine banking union which will bring stability to markets, investors and savers. this report is undoubtedly the first step towards achieving an overall regulatory framework which will harmonize the financial sectors of the member states, which is essential to eliminate the disparities which still exist and to overcome the economic difficulties of recent years. i particularly welcome the fact that the european central bank has been given a supervisory role to coordinate the action of the member states, and i agree with the request that this activity should still be subject to democratic control.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and the whole team who have followed this long and important negotiation on behalf of parliament. the details agreed in this measure are very important because, in this particular case, the 'how' is at least as important as the 'what' is done. to be clear, the shared objective of transferring some of the powers of prudential supervision from the national central banks to the european one is not enough. if this transfer is not done with respect to the principle of subsidiarity, efficiency is lost and only money is spent on translations. if the ecb is not given the powers of inspection and the legal instruments to act, it becomes a farce. if the transfer of competence is not gradual, a gap opens up in terms of organisation and staff adequacy. i voted in favour of this proposal because i found a great deal of coherence between the objectives and the instruments provided.
in writing. − the new control system, which is an essential component of banking union, involves the transfer of considerable banking supervisory powers from the national to the community level. this is an important milestone in the realisation of a real banking union. however, it is undeniable that this transfer of powers requires an equally strong system of democratic control. i therefore hope that, as suggested in the report, the role of the parliament in this system will be strengthened, in order to allow for greater democratic control by the european central bank.
in writing. − analysis of the effects of the 2009 crisis has revealed a european supervisory structure that is highly fragmented at national level and, above all, ill-suited to address the challenges posed by the increasing integration of the european single market for financial services and the activities of banking groups. further problems were identified in the differences between supervisory rules and practices within each member state, as a result of community legislation which leaves discretion and interpretation to the national authorities in the field of banking regulation, preventing any possibility of sharing tasks and responsibilities. in the light of these criticisms, i thought it appropriate to support, by voting in favour of the report, the proposal to create a single banking supervisory mechanism, even though i know that the road to ensuring the stability of the euro area is still long, but the european parliament's initiative is a first step towards creating a banking union, an important step towards a united states of europe.
in writing. − the proposal for a council regulation conferring specific tasks on the ecb concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions is the linchpin of the future eu banking union. with this text, for which i thank mrs thyssen, the ecb will act as a supervisor and will have the task of preventing bank failures and preventing the instability of a single credit institution from spreading throughout the banking system, thus preventing the harmful effects on the real economy that we have seen since the 2008 crisis. this will ensure better monitoring of european banks and greater stability of the european financial and credit sector, to the benefit of businesses and households.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bélier report, which deals with the delicate issue of access to genetic resources and the sharing of the benefits arising from their use in the union. the text is very balanced and above all acceptable, since it strongly calls for a reduction in administrative practices in this area, the establishment of a clearer and more functional traceability system and the strengthening of the fight against biopiracy.
in writing. − the issue of biodiversity depletion is widely recognised and a cause for concern. in this sense, ensuring a fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources is a possible solution to the impoverishment of ecosystems. but we must always bear in mind the ethical dimension and the need to approach certain paths with the utmost caution. i therefore hope that transparency and legal certainty will be strengthened in the legislative field against the phenomenon of biopiracy, i.e. the illegal acquisition and use of genetic resources.
in writing. the european commission's proposal provides a solid basis for an effective system at community level. however, in order to comply with the nagoya protocol, certain mechanisms need to be strengthened: if the question of access to resources is left to the sovereignty of the member states, it is essential to provide a clear european union framework for the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of natural resources.
in writing. − equal pay for men and women doing the same work is not only a fundamental principle of the eu, but also and above all a matter of social justice. it is unacceptable, to say the least, that you can receive a lower salary for doing the same job, just because you are a man or a woman. and the data available to us reveal a european reality which is still far from ensuring that this principle is effectively applied. women are among the most vulnerable and are subject to prejudice and discrimination because they have to reconcile family responsibilities and the essential procreative function with their professional activity. i hope, therefore, that the commission will make every effort to identify the most effective measures and guarantees which will make the principle of equal pay for men and women doing the same work operational and applicable as widely as possible. we must pay the utmost attention and devote the utmost effort to these issues which have a direct and strong impact on the lives of citizens if we are to make them understand the importance of europe and european integration.
in writing. - this resolution, although not having legislative value, has clear political value and is part of the data protection strand, which i follow very closely with the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and of the proposal for a directive on network and information security. that world that science fiction writers imagined until the 1980s has come true: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information society is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i voted in favour of this resolution to emphasize that the economies of scale which the eu can achieve in coordinating these services are crucial to exploit at this time.
in writing. − the increasingly widespread use of the internet has also brought with it a number of risks and problems, which need to be addressed with new measures and tools. thousands upon thousands of pieces of information are exchanged online every day, which can also concern key areas for the security of both citizens and states themselves. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of personal data. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. investing in cybersecurity is very expensive, but it's definitely essential: this is another reason why europe should have a common defence system in this area too, which would allow it to effectively organise the crime that travels on the web.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because, after having participated in the long debate, i wanted to emphasise strongly the need to exploit the potential, especially in terms of job creation, that the digital sector can create. however, as i also stressed in my speech, i would like some of the efficiency gains to be invested in the retraining of those whose jobs are rendered obsolete or inefficient by technological innovation. i am pleased with the role that the european parliament is playing in supporting the other institutions of the union. the development of the digital agenda cannot be delayed any further.
in writing. − the completion of the digital agenda is an objective which the european union must achieve as quickly as possible. it is necessary to facilitate communication and connections as much as possible, both between citizens and between member states. the first and most important step is to eliminate by 2015 the costs of roaming calls, a nasty nuisance that hits us every time we cross national borders. the european commission's proposal for: i just hope that the telephone companies will not now go out of their way to block what would be a real and immediate benefit to consumers. i also believe that the completion of such an initiative, that is to say, the ability to speak out abroad as well as at home, would be a great advantage for the image of a europe which all too often proves to be far removed from the real needs and wishes of its citizens, and would make us all feel perhaps a little more european. another key point is the spread of broadband and full internet access for all: this could bring enormous benefits to both citizens and businesses, not to mention all the potential and considerable savings of a digital public administration.
mr president, first of all i would like to express my sincere thanks to the british parliament and to russia, whose opposition has probably blocked, or at least postponed, an absurd military intervention. it is tragically ironic that a "tanned" man, who was just a few years ago awarded the scandalous nobel peace prize for his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples, should be the one to take up arms. any judgment on the award of the nobel prizes is superfluous. what is the european union, the nobel peace prize holder, doing to defend this value? it is not a problem, of course, because the european union is just an empty box, devoid of identity and common feeling, with its members acting in a dispersed order, without even consulting each other. in syria, a large part of the opposition to the assad regime is led by islamic fundamentalists, with al qaeda at the forefront. just yesterday we were remembering 9/11 and i cannot tell whether the united states has a short memory or a long eye, driven by interests ..... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i think that the resolution voted by this parliament on the syrian issue deserves some distinction. i want to distinguish them as an italian and i want to distinguish them as a catholic. as an italian, i would like to stress that italy is seriously affected by the current embargo on syria, since all trade relations with the mediterranean are affected by this embargo, which restricts the transit of goods both from syria and from other countries. the outbreak of war could be devastating for the italian economy and its commercial activities, but also for those of the european union. i would also like to point out that italy, because of its geographical location in the mediterranean, will have to endure any migratory phenomena and as a catholic i would like to make it clear that we are certain - indeed, we are quite certain - that the rebels currently fighting the assad regime will certainly not be kind to the many christians who live there.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it states that a lasting solution to the current crisis in syria can only be achieved through a syrian-led inclusive political process with the backing of the international community. for this reason it is fundamental to support the efforts of the european union and of un-arab league joint special representative lakhdar brahimi to achieve progress in the geneva ii process and at the un security council. with this text we also urge the eu and the member states to live up to their humanitarian responsibilities and to increase their assistance to syrian refugees. i personally strongly believe that any military intervention – with or without un authorisation – in syria is bound to have grave and highly unpredictable consequences and that a worsening of the situation on the ground cannot be excluded. only a strategic, global approach articulating humanitarian and political dimensions can put an end to the violence and mass human rights violations and promote a democratic transition in syria.
in writing. - i am very perplexed about what is happening in syria. diplomatic moves do not achieve the desired effect, military maneuvers seem to have begun but are hopefully not reaching the final stage, and meanwhile the civil war continues, reaping deaths on both sides and driving both (if there are really only two) parties away from some semblance of reason. i believe that the european union must exert all possible pressure to find a balanced, peaceful solution that minimizes the damage while respecting the principles on which the eu was founded and thrives.
in writing. - i think many of you will agree that the european union needs a common position on the situation in syria. a dramatic civil war with enormous international repercussions cannot go unnoticed, we must make our voices heard, not to take one side over the other, but because of the moral duty to react in order to protect the civilian population and to ensure that the international community is able to establish rules and take appropriate action against crimes against humanity. that is why i voted in favour of the european people's party resolution, in the hope that the diplomatic efforts to establish responsibility for the war crimes committed will bear good fruit for peace and the security of the citizens.
in writing. we all condemn the use of chemical gas against the syrian people, just as we condemn the massacres of christians in the countries so-called liberated by the arab spring. but how can we possibly think of countering the use of chemical weapons with depleted uranium missiles which will contaminate the air and water of a stricken country for decades to come? let us not forget that the assad regime is backed by the mullahs of iran and that just last weekend iranian militiamen, in concert with the iraqi army, stormed camp ashraf, carrying out cold-blooded executions of 52 helpless and defenseless refugees, even in the hospital. seven people, including six women, have been kidnapped and are being transported to iran, where they will face the death penalty. why has parliament not wanted to discuss this, rejecting the request made by my group, the epp? why is the baroness ashton silent? where was the un when camp ashraf was attacked?
mr president, the situation in egypt is still very dramatic and it seems very difficult to see any solution to a conflict which is literally tearing the country in two. the so-called "arab spring" has aroused too much enthusiasm and approval in the west, which fails to understand that the middle east is too sensitive an area to be able to express judgments, which risk being hurried and denied in a short time. egypt came from decades of one-man authoritarian rule, which it has held with the unconditional support of both the united states and europe. his fall, supported by the latter, saw new elections and the victory of the muslim brotherhood, which we saw how they governed: the remedy has been worse than the disease, demonstrating that a muslim-inspired government is not sustainable, especially in a country where there is a large christian minority and a strong feeling of institutional secularism. i just want to hope that these different souls can come to an agreement and resolve a situation that otherwise risks compromising the stability of the entire area.
in writing. − i support this text because after the military coup of july egypt is in a very unstable and worrying situation. the political tensions continue to provoke violent clashes, which have resulted in more than 1 000 deaths and many more injured. i am firmly convinced that any exclusion or prosecution against a democratic political force or actor in egypt can only lead to increased radicalism. we need to condemn in the stronger possible terms the disproportionate use of force against the protesters without penalising the egyptian population while suspending aid to the country. in addition, with this resolution we urge the eu to proceed without delay to establish an eu mechanism providing legal and technical assistance to arab spring countries in the process of asset recovery. this instrument, already supported by this parliament on several occasions, was delayed because of the turmoil in egypt. it is vital to bear in mind that asset recovery has a highly symbolic value and may contribute largely to restoring accountability, creating stability and building solid institutions in the spirit of democracy and the rule of law in the partner countries concerned.
in writing. - i have the utmost respect for the will of the people. i think it's one of the greatest achievements of the modern era. i cannot, however, understand how one can expect to convince the other side with weapons and violence. i am rather worried about the direction that political issues are taking in egypt, not so much for the outcome that they seem to have (as long as the people want it, i am fine) but for the methodologies that are described to us. i agree with this resolution because i would like a peaceful solution and would prefer to see the european union actively engaged in seeking mediation between the parties involved, in the interests of the population first and then of the stability of the whole airspace.
in writing. − i abstained in voting on this resolution because although it makes a good analysis of the importance of global maritime flows for the european union, it regrets cuts in national defence budgets. it also encourages increasing the military presence at seas in order to secure trade and energy routes. i addition, i disagree with the idea of an intensified eu-nato relationship and of any further civil-military cooperation.
in writing. - parliament has shown by its vote today that it is willing to give the maritime dimension, an aspect of the common security policy which has hitherto been dealt with in a fragmentary manner, the right importance. the csdp already has two maritime instruments, eunavfor and eucap, but these have not yet been properly implemented. the maritime dimension can play a key role in preventing and managing crisis situations and in defending freedom of navigation. i therefore believe that it is necessary that future action in the field of security and defence policy should also take account of this aspect in order to protect the strategic maritime areas to the greatest extent possible.
in writing. - it is time for europe to take responsibility for protecting our maritime borders: in recent years, the member states bordering the mediterranean, italy in particular, have been left to deal with a very difficult situation, with hundreds of disembarkations and thousands of refugees to be taken in. it is too easy to criticize the methods used when we have realities that have given so much, are always under pressure and are now close to collapse. the current situation in syria and egypt does not bode well for the future either, in the sense that there will very likely be further landings to escape the internal problems of these countries. i would like the european union to take direct and decisive action, particularly to combat the daily trafficking of human beings in the mediterranean, which is certainly enriching the organised crime that runs it. perhaps europe can do better than italy, and certainly its direct involvement would put it in a more responsible position to manage the entire migration emergency. we shall see if the european union is only capable and supportive in words, or if it finally decides that it is time to act in practice.
in writing. − maritime space is playing an increasingly important geostrategic role, as it involves different sectors such as international trade, security and the environment. the maritime dimension can also play an important role in the common foreign and defence policy. the european union has a strong interest in maintaining a safe maritime environment, guaranteeing the free movement and safety of goods and persons in this space, as well as ensuring the application of the principles of the united nations charter in this area. i therefore voted in favour of mrs gomes' report because a comprehensive approach, combining political, economic, social and diplomatic instruments, can be the most effective way for the european union to respond to a number of challenges in the maritime sector.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on this report because i find the nobel prize to the european union incongruous with the desire to expand the eu military sector. in a time of economic crisis, i find reduction of the national defence budgets more than proper. we should support a drastic rationalisation of european military capacities in order to reduce existing overcapacities which are not sustainable.
in writing. - the military and defence sphere should, in my view, be a subject in which the european union would certainly need to be more involved. fortunately, we live in a time of peace on european soil and i do not think we should use force between the different member states to overcome our differences, which are important. i think it is very stupid and uneconomic to continue the arms race alone: it is absolutely useless in my view for the european states to have, for example, a considerable air force and perhaps to neglect the naval force. military intervention must always be the last resort, but in that case i would also welcome a real european army, which could possibly take action in missions where required: the new military technologies are very expensive and i believe that cooperation and sharing of costs at european level is necessary and appropriate. one of the key principles for me is subsidiarity, and that is why i have often criticized the european union when it intervenes inappropriately in the internal affairs of countries: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the report is one of a number of initiatives taken in the wake of the december 2012 european council to identify proposals to be brought to the attention of the december 2013 european council on security and defence, the first summit dedicated to defence since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i voted in favour of the report because it contains proposals on how to update the institutional framework of military structures, it encourages better planning of resources and better management of civilian and military missions, and it also calls for the creation of a european military union.
in writing. − i support this resolution because i believe that the eastern partnership summit in vilnius could become an important opportunity for the gradual improvement of eu-belarus relations. for this reason with this text we urge the belarusian authorities to respect human rights and work towards a democratic transition in order to end the country’s self-imposed isolation from the rest of europe. i also think that the eu should carry out an in-depth evaluation of the euʼs current restrictive measures against belarusian officials and entities, which have so far proved to be ineffective in bringing democratic change in belarus.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on the balance of the compromises. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is a good solution in an attempt to discourage recent behaviour which is unacceptable by our standards and which is aimed at drawing belarus into the european sphere of influence. i do not want to judge the policies of other states, and i do not do so in this case either, but the eu needs to have countries around it that can offer guarantees in terms of stability, respect for the law and economic growth. our policy towards belarus, while guided by these principles, must be pursued until it achieves the desired results.
in writing. − the european union has always shown particular attention to its eastern neighbours, as the enlargements of 2004 and 2007, and the recent enlargement to croatia, demonstrate. the union cannot therefore remain indifferent to the situation in belarus. the country's high democratic deficit, highlighted in the 2010 and 2012 elections, media censorship and political arrests in recent years are all elements that risk damaging the country's relations with the rest of europe. the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november could be a unique opportunity to discuss these issues and to call for a loud signal from belarus that it is willing to make a democratic breakthrough.
mr president, i think that in the face of a state which is defending its commercial interests, the european union must respond by seeking common ground, by seeking elements which can lead to mutually beneficial results. it is clear that our relations of partnership with the east, which see russia as the state with which we have the greatest trade relations, must be implemented and improved, but when the result is russia's withdrawal from its historical partners, clearly nothing has been understood. i think it is in the interest of this european community to intensify relations with all the countries of eastern europe, especially those where there are greater opportunities for growth in our exports and those from which it is easier to import important resources in terms of raw materials.
in writing. − to stop the activities of international criminal networks and to contribute to their dismantling, to prevent terrorist attacks, to improve cybersecurity, to ensure border security, to increase resilience to natural disasters, to combat violence against children and women, and to combat child pornography: these are the objectives that the eu's internal security strategy should aim to achieve. greater eu coordination in these areas can provide added value. that is why i support this report.
in writing. - it is undeniable that many security and crime-fighting challenges have now crossed national borders. money laundering, financial crime, smuggling and counterfeiting, terrorism: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. an important part of the resolution we adopted today also focuses on the crucial role of internal and external borders and borders in ensuring an effective internal security policy: we have discussed the agreed maritime policy today, and it is true that there are also major threats from the sea which must be carefully assessed. the numerous disembarkations of refugees fleeing dangerous situations often hide criminals, whether ordinary or terrorist: the european union should also take care of this, without leaving this heavy burden to the individual national states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because health and safety at work must be guaranteed and there should be clear legislation on that. that is why it is not acceptable that the strategy 2007-2012 on health and safety at work expired in 2012 but has not yet been replaced by the commission. for this reason with this text we urge the commission to present the new strategy for the years between now and 2020 as soon as possible.
in writing. − with this report we want to ask the european commission to commit itself to adopting a new european strategy for health and safety at work: i hope, of course, that it is not just a matter of fine words, as is often the case, but that it is focused on certain important points. one principle must be clear, and it is rightly reflected in the text: the economic crisis must not be used as a pretext for compromising policies to prevent occupational risks. in times of austerity, there is a risk of cutting expenditure items which are considered superfluous or non-essential, such as safety at the workplace: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. italy unfortunately has a sad record in this area, and we hear daily of the death of a person in the line of duty: this is intolerable, because work should allow us to live, not lead us to death. the number of accidents with injuries of varying severity is even higher: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. − protecting workers in both safety and health must be considered as one of the priorities for improving the quality of life of european citizens. the european strategy 2007-2012 on safety and health at work expired at the end of 2012 and parliament therefore called on the commission to act promptly, as it recognises the importance of promoting high quality and safe working environments. the commission has decided to launch a public consultation in 2013 on the direction of future eu policy initiatives in the field of safety and health at work, although in the commission staff working document entitled 'assessment of the european strategy for health and safety at work 2007-2012', accompanying the consultation, it is not clear whether or when the new strategy will be adopted by the commission. in view of the innumerable accidents at work, often fatal, i am expressing my support for the drafting of a document shared at european level, aimed at regulating workplaces for the protection of citizens, which does not, however, consist merely in an increase in burdens and costs for enterprises.
in writing. - the phenomenon of crossborder collective bargaining is still not widespread but, with globalisation, it is set to grow. despite the absence of legal provisions, the divergence of regulations and the plethora of problems that this entails, some 200 european transnational agreements have been concluded in recent years, involving some 10 million workers. this is, of course, a figure that is set to grow exponentially in the coming years. i think that is central and that we should insist on asking the commission to consider the possibility of an optional european legal framework for transnational corporate agreements, as it could prove useful and necessary for the purposes of greater legal certainty and transparency, as well as for the predictability and enforceability of legal effects for agreements which comply with the framework provisions. equally important is the demand for recognition of the contractual autonomy of the contracting parties, with the inclusion in the agreements of provisions on dispute settlement. it will be important in the near future to monitor and encourage the commission to take legislative initiatives as soon as possible to ensure legal certainty and the necessary safeguards.
in writing. the report calls for community legislative action to coordinate the trade unions of the various member states. the document presents one main problem: employers' associations do not seem interested in his promotion. there is also a risk of a lack of legitimacy, as the establishment of this body would lead to a separation (even physical) between trade union representatives and workers. i am voting against this report because, while it contains the shared objective of stopping the relocation to eastern europe, it contains other points which are not shared.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu must pay particular attention to minors who arrive alone in our territory. we have a moral and a political obligation to protect the rights of children who need specific assistance and support due to their situation of vulnerability. moreover the conditions in which such minors are received in certain member states is completely unacceptable. for this reason we ask the commission to draw up strategic guidelines for member states which would be based on best practice at national level.
in writing. - on the subject of unaccompanied minors - coming from third countries and being in the territory of the member states without the assistance and representation of their parents or other adults legally responsible for them - i voted in favour of the resolution which aims to highlight the fragmentation of the current legislative provisions in this area and to suggest strategic guidelines to improve the situation of unaccompanied minors. i believe that all the issues relating to the interests of the child involved in every stage of the process which begins with his arrival on european territory must be analysed and addressed. in this regard, it is necessary for the commission to develop guidelines for member states and for member states to adopt national strategies to obtain a comprehensive picture of the number of unaccompanied minors, to examine specific needs in order to provide them with adequate protection and to address related issues with specific measures, sharing best practices. more specifically, adequate protection of the child will have to cover such fundamental aspects as housing, education and access to health care. the cooperation of the third countries of origin will be essential if we are to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
in writing. the report deals with the issue of unaccompanied minors arriving in the eu. one solution is to provide assistance through the legal guardian, whose task is to accompany, assist and represent the child, and to provide a range of services relating to his or her protection. this report, although it presents some shared elements concerning the protection of minors, cannot be fully supported by us because it contains elements of strong criticism such as family reunification, as the child himself could be used as a 'pass' to reach european territory. that is why i am voting for abstention.
in writing. the text presented by mr griesbeck contains general recommendations and strategic guidelines to improve the status and living conditions of unaccompanied minors in the territory of the union from the moment of their arrival and throughout the procedure of reception or return to the country of origin. in expressing my vote in favour, i would like to stress, as i have already done during the discussions in the committee on development on this sensitive subject, that children must always be regarded as particularly vulnerable and that the principle of the best interests of the child must prevail over all other considerations when dealing with unaccompanied children.
in writing. − according to the 2010 european competitiveness report, the cultural and recreational sectors account for 4.5% of gdp and provide 8.5 million jobs in the european union. several studies confirm the economic importance of these sectors, which, in a europe hit hard by the economic recession, are showing a higher than average growth rate. i believe that in a time of general economic crisis, which is putting our sense of belonging to europe at risk, it is essential to support the cultural and creative sectors which contribute to economic growth and employment in europe. these sectors play a major role as reference points for innovation, the positive effects of which are not limited to the spheres of culture and creation but extend to many sectors of the economy. as ambassadors of a dynamic and open europe, the cultural and creative sectors today face numerous challenges arising from the digital transition, globalisation, the strong cultural and linguistic fragmentation of markets and the difficulty of accessing funding. i therefore hope that the commission, also by developing cooperation between member states, will adopt an integrated policy approach so that these sectors are used as engines of economic and social development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the strategy proposed by the european commission for the cultural and creative sectors, which account for 4.5% of gdp and provide 8.5 million jobs in the european union. i too believe that the potential for competitiveness and exploration must be unleashed to maximise the positive effects on the whole economy. skills development, access to finance, the dissemination of new business models, the widening of the audience, access to international markets and the strengthening of links with other sectors are all aspects that deserve to be strengthened. this will allow for better use of european funding, the creative europe programme with €1.8 billion for 2014-2020 and cohesion policy funds.
in writing. - a motion for a resolution was voted this morning in plenary in strasbourg on the need to promote the cultural and creative sectors in order to promote economic growth and employment. i agree with the rapporteur, marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, that it is extremely important to support culture and creativity, as these are two activities which make a huge contribution to economic growth and employment in europe. for this reason, the cultural and creative sectors must be used as engines of economic and social development and be integrated into productive activities which, in addition to increasing employment and especially economic development, also offer benefits at the social level. i am, in the final analysis, satisfied with today's vote.
in writing. − according to the 2010 european competitiveness report, the cultural and creative sectors account for up to 4.5% of gdp and provide 8.5 million jobs in the eu. several studies confirm the economic importance of these sectors, which, in a europe hit hard by the recession, are showing a higher than average growth rate. in view of the fact that, in a time of general economic crisis, the cultural and creative sectors clearly contribute to stimulating economic growth and creating jobs, we believe that the political actors concerned will be able to work together in an organisational way in the broadest possible consensus to refocus europe on creativity and culture in order to better prepare us for the new challenges that are coming in a globalised world.
mr president, i have just one request: the possibility of electronic voting for all three resolutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have just mentioned a long line of deaths: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. we as the group of the european people's party have asked for this debate, which is taking place on the same day that president barroso, together with commissioner malmström, will rightly and properly go to that island to attest to their solidarity and closeness - which is also the solidarity of the european institutions towards those territories and those people, those refugees but also the citizens. we therefore ask that we also take a step back in the sense that the debate could take place at 5 p.m. as indicatively planned, but with the duly necessary presence of the commission - barroso and malmström - and the council. we would remind you, mr president, that tomorrow the european council will have the opportunity to discuss these matters constructively in the presence of the commission, and we trust that their activities will be inspired by the principle of solidarity which we have so often called for.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just to confirm what mr swoboda has just said, the absolute need for a comparison. we must avoid, however, drawing attention to the legislation of individual member states. this is not a question of legislation but of burden-sharing and responsibility-sharing. we are in favour of the question, but we do not think that today is the time for a resolution which could create tensions. but we do not want divisions or tensions on this subject, but rather a unity of understanding on the part of the whole parliament.
in writing. in the context of the regulation establishing a list of permitted health claims for foodstuffs, the european commission has approved a new health claim: "carbohydrates help maintain normal brain function". however, the use of this indication has been subject to certain conditions. it can only be labelled if the product is not 100% sugar and contains at least 20 g of carbohydrate. however, to make the use of the indication conditional on the presence of a certain amount of sugar is in fact equivalent to introducing a nutritional profile, bypassing the specific legal procedure for the definition of nutritional profiles. the commission is going beyond its mandate in doing so. furthermore, the introduction of the conditions of use by the commission is unscientific and arbitrary. the european food safety authority, explaining that a daily dose of 130 g of carbohydrates satisfies the brain's glucose needs, has not established any restriction on use with reference to the sugar content of the products. such an approach to the conditions of use for such indications risks discriminating between the individual product and creating confusion for the consumer. for these reasons, i support the report voted in the envi committee and i oppose the introduction of the health claim as proposed by the european commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, why is parliament concerned with fisheries agreements? because these are not mere trade agreements! if they were trade agreements, parliament should not be dealing with them. parliament's position must look at the ethical aspect of a fisheries agreement and if we do not take the ethical aspect into account we are interfering with these countries. apart from the fact that if this agreement does not pass through parliament tomorrow, it will not change anything for the fishermen of galicia. it would be a change for all the other fishermen who would not enjoy this agreement, and then it cannot be galicia against the world! but then i would like to remind you that this is a relationship between the european union and mauritania and the condition of guaranteeing that this relationship is environmentally compatible, respectful of the resource, a condition of development aid, is the element on which the policy of fisheries agreements is based. if we fail to take these elements into account and the freedom of that country to let us fish what it wants, we fail to take into account the essence of the agreement, we should not make any more agreements if this agreement does not pass tomorrow. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. sorry, mr president, about the time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i wanted to emphasize the subject which has been, not by chance, at the heart of the debate in which we are participating. a treaty, a fisheries agreement, inevitably entails mediation and rapprochement which may benefit certain territories and certain countries and not be equally effective for others. it is, however, an extraordinary instrument of economic and social policy, on the condition - and it is no accident that this has been repeatedly mentioned - that it is fully respected and that if there is any deviation from its proper implementation, those who have promoted it, in this case the european union, have the means to take immediate corrective action. the time-testing is therefore very important because instruments of this kind must be widely accepted and not be a hindrance to the right course.
member of the commission. − violence against women is a structural and widespread problem. in this respect, we welcome very much the report from mrs papadopoulou and we also welcome the debate we are having here today. i would like to underline that today is only four days before the international day of the girl child, so i think that this discussion is very timely. the european union strongly condemns all forms of violence against women. neither custom, tradition, culture, privacy nor religion can be invoked to justify violence. in june 2012, the foreign affairs council adopted the new strategic framework induction plan on human rights and democracy, in which concrete actions are envisaged to support initiatives against gender-based violence and feminicide and to promote and protect children’s rights. the european union continues to work on implementing its own guidelines on combating violence and discrimination against women and girls and the eu plan of action on gender equality, through its delegations and the embassies of the eu member states around the world. the guidelines of the plan of action establish a basis for the systematic inclusion of gender equality, for including gendercide in the eu political dialogue with partner countries, and for the involvement of women’s organisations. in addition, almost all the human rights counter-strategies prepared by the eu delegations prioritise the issue of children and women. specifically in relation to children’s rights and eu guidelines, the commission communication ‘a special place for children in eu external action’ and the european union’s action plan on children’s rights support the development of an integrated approach to advance children’s rights at international level. the eu mainstreams gender issues in all its programmes and trains its diplomats, as well as the personnel for our common defence and external policies and our missions and operations, on how to take into account women’s and children’s issues in their postings in third countries. as a concrete example of eu-financed projects, i would like to underline a eur 1 million project that will be launched this year with un women on feminicide in mexico. another call for proposals has been published recently to raise awareness on girl-child infanticide. in the framework of rio+20, in the post-2015 development agenda, gender equality and empowerment are an integral and important part of the millennium development goals. the eu is fully committed to playing an active role in this work, to define the post-2015 framework and to work inclusively with all countries and partners. during the 2013 european development days we will also dedicate a special panel to gender in the context of the post-2015 framework.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 8 october 2013, at 12.00 hours. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by mrs ana gomes, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on corruption in the public and private sectors: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
member of the commission. − (microphone off at start of speech) businesses, regardless of nationality, its harmful effects on societies as well as its economic costs and the negative impact on development are now widely acknowledged. so i would therefore like to thank mrs gomes for having produced this report. mrs gomes’ report rightly points out that the european union can only become a credible and influential leader in the fight against corruption if it addresses problems of corruption, money laundering and organised crime within its own borders. so this is the first thing for us to tackle. although the european union is rightly perceived as being one of the cleaner parts of the world, corruption is also present here. it varies in nature and extent from one member state to the other, but it affects all of us. that is why, in june 2011, the commission adopted an anti-corruption package that included a communication on fighting corruption in the eu, that sets out the main directions of future action at eu level. the anti-corruption package committed the commission to focusing more on corruption in all related internal and external eu policy fields. let me now specifically refer to a couple of points raised in the report. we agree on the need to regulate the activities of private military and security companies, in order to ensure they comply with the principles of human rights law and international humanitarian law. the eu is so far the only regional organisation which has expressed its support for the montreux document. the european union will also continue to participate actively in the proceedings of the united nations in the governmental working group, to consider the possibility of an international framework on this issue. turning to the magnitsky case, this is a legitimate matter of concern to the european union. the russian authorities need internally to conduct a credible independent investigation into the circumstances of his death. we are concerned about the closure in march, in spite of compelling evidence, of the case which was supposed to clarify how and why he died. the posthumous prosecution of magnitsky himself is unacceptable. the european union is concerned at the guilty verdict issued last july by the court in moscow against sergei magnitsky and william browder. mr magnitsky has been posthumously declared a criminal on the basis of unfair procedures and unconvincing evidence, while neither the corruption scandal he helped to uncover nor the circumstances of his death have been clarified. we have taken note of the european parliament’s initiatives calling for a european magnitsky act. we have to think, though, that restrictive measures by the european union are a very sensitive instrument. sanctions should be used only as a measure of last resort as part of an integrated and comprehensive policy approach involving political dialogue, complementary efforts and other instruments. they would require the highest level of political support and could be only introduced by the unanimous agreement of european member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 october 2013.
the next item is the report by erminia mazzoni, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on effects of budgetary constraints for regional and local authorities regarding the eu’s structural funds expenditure in the member states (2013/2042(ini)) (a7-0269/2013).
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing analyses the effects on the spending of the structural funds of the budgetary constraints imposed on regional and local authorities by the stability pact: the economic and financial crisis has tightened the rules for balanced budgets by imposing blanket cuts in spending without any distinction between current expenditure and investment. the immediate effect has been to limit, almost to the point of totally inhibiting, policies aimed at boosting the economy and growth. the consequence of this situation has had repercussions in particular on cohesion policy, which is by its nature geared to investment expenditure in order to overcome social, economic and territorial imbalances between member states. unfortunately, amid cuts and restrictions, regional and local authorities, who are called upon to implement the european agendas, are now faced with the difficulty of meeting their programming commitments. the figures on the percentage of spending achieved, on the widening gap between strong and weak economies, confirm that cohesion is falling behind. the report therefore makes three proposals aimed at balancing the need for public investment with strict compliance with the fiscal rules of the union budget in relation to national co-financing of european structural funds programmes. the first is the exclusion of public expenditure related to the implementation of programmes co-financed by the structural and investment funds from the definition of structural deficit in the stability and growth pact: the justification is that this expenditure is intended to achieve the eu2020 objectives and to support competitiveness, growth and job creation. the current situation, on the other hand, creates a short-circuit between european policies, which means that on the one hand, spending is inhibited, and on the other hand, there are penalties for not spending. the second proposal in the report is that the investment burden should in any case be calculated net of taxation. these items are in fact current and capital items which are improperly used to determine the deficit. the third proposal is the possibility of budgeting the entire amount of european resources at the beginning of the programming period, leaving the national part of the cofinancing in subsequent budgets. the aim is to enable national, regional and local authorities to ensure that the revenue which they are expected to generate from investment in subsequent years is balanced. the report calls on the commission and the member states to take account of the proposals made in the ongoing negotiations on the cohesion package. the need for greater flexibility is also contained in the mandate which the regi committee has given to the rapporteurs who are involved in the trilogue on the cohesion legislative package, so we are working in perfect coherence. the report comes to the house with the almost unanimous vote of the committee on regional development: 40 votes in favour, with only 2 abstentions. in addition, the committee on budgets and the committee on employment and social affairs have given favourable opinions. this report is a fully coherent follow-up to the debate that has opened up in the european council, and is in line with the commitments on the introduction of the golden rule in european fiscal policies and with the objectives of building an inclusive, smart and sustainable europe by 2020. it is useless to continue to vote in this parliament calling on the european commission to promote employment, to promote the development of infrastructure, to stimulate the economy, if the critical points, the knots that the stability and growth pact highlights in the course of its implementation are not resolved. i hope, therefore, that in the light of these considerations parliament will be able to demonstrate, by voting in favour of the whole report, that it is an active and conscious co-legislator and will not be swayed by the attempts of a minority to weaken the community spirit in favour of a nationalist interest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs mazzoni's report is very good because it offers concrete proposals to ensure the necessary flexibility in respect of the stability pact. priorities include: it is worth remembering that 60% of the public productive investment is implemented at regional and local level; the commission will then exclude, if necessary even partially, the national part of the european funds from the pact. we are talking about strategic expenditure, which is vital to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. we are talking about supporting competitiveness, growth, jobs. the pact, it is worth remembering, is one of stability, but also of growth, we cannot die of austerity!
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the parliament initiative and we also share the concerns expressed in the report by ms mazzoni. the economic crisis has really altered the convergence process among european regions and regional disparities are growing, in particular in terms of unemployment. regional and local authorities are key players to help european economies recover from the current crisis. in 2011, for example, more than 46 % of the growth-enhancing expenditure in the european union of 27 member states was carried out by sub-national authorities: 46 %. sub-national governments also contribute significantly to public investment. in 2012, around 60 % of total public investment in the european union of 27 was carried out by sub-national authorities. the economic crisis has reduced revenue for regional and local authorities, it is true, and the growth-enhancing type of expenditure and public investment has been dramatically squeezed. in 2011 sub-national public investment dropped to 2.1, returning to its 1997 level. in real terms sub-national public investment fell by 5.8 % in 2010, 6.5 % in 2011, and fell again in 2012. it is obvious that this situation has negative implications. several member states have signalled growing difficulties in co-financing eu programmes, which can only negatively affect delivery of the objectives. this trend is worrying as it shows that the economic crisis has seriously affected the capacity of regional and local authorities to provide public expenditure which is critical to maintaining favourable growth prospects in the future. the commission has proposed a number of measures to facilitate the budgetary management of these resources. firstly, we have proposed going for higher co-financing grades through top-ups in the current period and in the future. secondly, the current situation also requires that resources be used in the most effective manner: in particular, the strategic orientation of the programmes has been enhanced and focused on the europe 2020 strategy, procedures have been simplified and the use of alternative financing instruments has been greatly encouraged. third, cohesion policy should also be closely aligned with the macroeconomic reforms undertaken in the context of the european semester. this is why a set of mechanisms tying cohesion policy programmes to macroeconomic governance has been introduced in the form of the ‘macroeconomic conditionalities’. at the same time, the commission announced that it will allow, under certain conditions of course, temporary deviations from the requirements of the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact to accommodate the national cofinancing of the eu-funded investment projects. implementation modalities of this procedure were recently clarified by the commission.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 8 october 2013, at 12.00 hours. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by mr james elles, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on political planning and longterm trends: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr elles, for the speech he has just given, for the work he has done on this report and for his chairmanship of the taskforce of the european strategy and policy analysis system. this is an interinstitutional project which is very important to us. i would like also to congratulate him for the initiative he has demonstrated in developing the concept of this policy system, both during the pilot project and now in the preparatory action. the world is indeed changing at a speed and intensity that leaves many policy makers struggling on occasions to make sense of what it happening and what the policy responses should be. this policy system is an attempt to define how the institutions of the union can work together in a collaborative manner to identify the key global trends impacting on us, what the implications of those may be, and to suggest how we might fashion policy responses. so this is a unique interinstitutional project involving parliament, the commission, the council of the european union and the external action service, and one that is currently engaged in the production of reports analysing the major global trends in the economy, society and in international governance and power. next year, this european strategy and policy analysis system is scheduled to deliver a report to the presidents of the institutions that will offer analysis for the next institutional cycle, as they seek to chart the way ahead for the european union. the interinstitutional taskforce is currently considering what shape and form a permanent system might take. work on this is ongoing, looking at light formulas for bringing about this foresight capacity without putting additional pressure on financial and human resources. the commission will continue to contribute positively to these discussions. i wish the rapporteur well in his role as chair of this european strategy and policy analysis systems taskforce.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 8 october 2013, at 12.00 hours.
the next item is the report by mrs evelyn regner, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the improvement of private international law: on the rules of jurisdiction applicable to employment (2013/2023 (ini)) (a7-0291/2013).
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission thanks the rapporteur, mrs regner, and the parliament for raising the issue of jurisdiction rules in employment matters. we share the aim of ensuring strong protection for the rights of employees in general, and in particular when they are involved in employment disputes. let me recall that the rights of employees have already been specifically addressed and strengthened in the recent brussels i regulation (recast), adopted on 6 december 2012. for instance, the new brussels i regulation provides for the right for employees to sue several employers together and the right for employees to have access to courts in europe, even if the employer is domiciled outside europe. the commission will carefully monitor the application of the new rules over the coming years, in the process paying close attention to the employment matters raised by parliament. this can then be considered in the context of the review, provided for in article 79, of the recast regulation. in this perspective, the commission could in the future consider looking into the issue of employment contracts, which has already been mentioned. this could be done by looking more specifically into the suggested fallback clause in article 21 in cases brought by the employee against the employer, defining as relevant the place of business from which the employee receives, or received, day-to-day instructions, rather than the place where the business which engaged the employee is situated.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 8 october 2013, at 12.00 hours.
the agenda includes the report by carmen fraga estévez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a comprehensive eu strategy for fisheries in the pacific region (2012/2235(ini): the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr salavrakos on his excellent work. the commissioner, the subject is quite simple: what is an own-initiative report? when parliament points the way it expects the commission to produce consequential action, we are not in the legislative process and so i would like to suggest an approach to the commission's initiative. the approach i think should take into account what we have in the mediterranean: the mediterranean is experiencing the most turbulent seasonal period in 100 years and this mediterranean is left to itself. in the fisheries sector too, our policies, the european fisheries policies, regulate the behaviour of european countries in those seas, but everything that comes from outside europe - that is, 14 out of 22 countries, 8 are european, 14 are not european - does not do so, there are no rules, except for some international conventions. i think that europe must develop a policy which addresses these countries through the conclusion of fisheries agreements. you see, this afternoon we discussed the fisheries agreement on mauritania and this agreement is made up of a report that we are going there to fish. i think that europe must take and implement a series of initiatives, reports and fisheries agreements in the mediterranean, without the object of the agreement being the fish, but the object of the agreement being the observance of the european rules themselves. if the salavrakos report is the starting point for such an initiative by the commission, it will certainly find a parliament which is attentive and above all a fisheries sector which has room and success. i thank the president for his tolerance of the times, but this is the last speech of the evening!
member of the commission. − madam president, i welcome very much the report by mr salavrakos and i share its overall analysis of the situation. we all agree that oceans and seas are a source of growth and development and that the use of the sea and the exploitation of our resources, living or non-living, needs to be sustainable. in order to achieve sustainability, we need a robust legal and administrative framework, a good system of governance, efficient resource management and effective monitoring, control and enforcement of regionally agreed measures. so indeed the worrying situation of fish stocks in the mediterranean and the black sea calls for an extra effort at national, european and coordinated regional level. we must do our homework and enforce our own legislation, be it in fisheries or in the environmental field. but i agree with mr milana that we must also strive to get our non-eu partners on the same road to sustainably resourced management, in order to achieve a level playing field and avoid disputes, or at least settle them peacefully, which is not always very easy. given that most of the coastal states in both seas, both the mediterranean and the black sea, are not eu members and that european exclusive economic zones are not implemented in the mediterranean, we need to continue and enhance cooperation, diagonal and regional strategies and initiatives. this is the only way to go forward. the existing multilateral fora, such as the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna (iccat) and the barcelona and bucharest sea conventions are doing good work, mostly indicated and pioneered by the european union. for example, we are taking an initiative now and we would like to see how we can promote further the revision of the gfcm. we need the revision; we need to enhance this organisation. we need an improvement of data collection as a basis for sound scientific advice and the use of regional fisheries management plans and mechanisms to fight illegal unreported fishing. i have visited the black sea riparian third countries – turkey, russia, ukraine – and intend to convene a black sea stakeholders’ conference to promote regional cooperation. the commission will continue to play its role as guardian of the treaties, negotiator and coordinator, but member states and partner countries must also do their part to achieve sustainable exploitation with a low impact on the environment. for example, we have the initiative by our member states, in cooperation with the commission, about the adriatic/ionian area, and here the consensus already expressed can be handled. the establishment of exclusive economic zones is a competence of the member states, who should also work together on sea cooperation amongst themselves and with partner countries, in order to improve resource monitoring, enforcement and coordination. a recent study on exclusive economic zones in the mediterranean, which was asked for by the commission, clearly demonstrates the substantial benefits to be gained if coastal states exercise their rights under the un convention on the law of the sea and extend their exclusive economic zones. we are in favour of this. i am currently reflecting on a possible initiative to encourage member states to make the maximum use of their rights and obligations under the exclusive economic zones regime, in order to enhance sustainable management of natural resources and to boost blue growth. we need such an initiative in the mediterranean. in conclusion, i welcome this important report and appreciate the recognition of the commission’s role in promoting a more solid and structured dialogue with third countries. i reassure you that the commission will do its utmost to improve governance, resource management and enforcement in the black sea and the mediterranean.
the agenda includes the report by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the processing, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products (com (((2012) 0788 - c7-0420/2012 - 2012/0366 ((cod)) (a7-0276/2013).
mr migalski, what you are saying is so untrue that you asked for a blue card and i gave it to you, but if you think you are going to intervene with a blue card all the time, that would be disrespectful to the other colleagues. it is, however, at the discretion of the president as a matter of regulation to grant or not to grant the right to a blue card. we go forward with a blue card, then there's a blue card for the on. i am not going to go into that. you little shit.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am rather surprised by the debate in this house today, in the sense that, from my point of view, there is a great deal of hypocrisy. if all the figures - and i am convinced of this because i do not doubt the honesty of my colleagues - are true, if there are 700 000 deaths a year due to smoking, then we should have made a directive much simpler and more straightforward: smoking must be banned throughout europe! i think that smoking is not prohibited, i think that the 10 pack is prohibited and i cannot understand why the flavourings are prohibited. yes, i can understand this more because they may encourage smoking. but then, obviously, there's a little bit of hypocrisy. why, can't i think that today we ban maybe some of the smoking but the alcohol? isn't alcohol also bad for you? eating certain foods is also bad, too much fat, etc., so we should ban fat, etc. i have heard even talk about protecting the rights of children in the womb if a mother smokes and i would like to hear this debate also when it comes to abortion, so. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i repeat that if this is true - and i assume it is - as the doctors say, i have no doubt that it is true that one in two people get sick, but then if we really want the good of the european citizens we must simply ban smoking! we must not ban packages of 10 or flavourings, because if it hurts, if something is really bad and is scientifically proven, we must say in the directive that it is prohibited, without finding many tricks!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my general support for the initiative of the european commission. it is obviously not perfect legislation, since it does not deal sufficiently with certain crucial aspects, such as the issue of information campaigns and the long-term education of the younger generation, but it does have the merit of updating the regulation of a market as particular as that of tobacco products, by reiterating the priority of the pursuit of the protection of public health and a serious fight against smoking, and in particular the protection of the younger generation and other vulnerable categories of consumers. in this debate it seems necessary to recall that tobacco products are unfortunately not comparable with other categories of ordinary goods, that smoking is always a deadly cause of death and that it is therefore necessary to regulate the marketing of these products with balance and seriousness. i believe that it is the duty of the european public authorities not to allow any room for characteristic flavours, misleading packaging and subtle slogans which make tobacco products falsely attractive and which at least unconsciously discourage awareness of the harmfulness of these products. we are particularly concerned about the funds of the national health authorities, which are burdened by the costs of treating the sick, but above all our conscience demands it.
the purpose of the blue card procedure is certainly to allow everyone to speak and to open a debate, but it is not possible to have three or four people speak for each intervention, especially people who are already registered or who have already spoken. so, a little bit of common sense or we're going on for two hours.
i repeat: it's at the discretion of the president, however, mr liotard one minute and thirty, please.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have many reasons, but this tobacco directive is wrong, because it is against the interests of workers and will not bring any health benefits. in fact, imitations that border on prohibitionism can only fuel the smuggling market, with even more devastating consequences for health. you taliban of the smoke war are as dangerous as smoke! because we know very well, as doctors, that even red meat, for example, is harmful to the body and promotes cancer! what about cholesterol? then every egg should have a sign that says: it seriously damages your arteries, i've never smoked and i've had cancer and a heart attack! so when is a directive to make us all vegetarian? i'll wait to hear the black market price of the steak!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs mcavan for the excellent work she has done on this important dossier, the approach to which i agree and many of the choices made to make smoking less attractive. a long and detailed debate in the parliamentary committees has made it possible to evaluate the commission's proposal. i am convinced that the european parliament has a duty to support the efforts of the member states to combat smoking. this task falls to the member states which have responsibility for the prevention of public health. i am convinced that the ban on the sale of slim cigarettes is not a proportionate measure to achieve the objective of dissuading young people from smoking, and i shall therefore abstain from my group's vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you said 700 000 deaths in europe from smoking, how many from red meat, which is carcinogenic? for animal fats, which cause cholesterol? for sweets that induce diabetes? for alcohol, for drugs? commissioner, when will the directive on drugs be adopted? after this directive, if it is approved, commissioner, you will be able to go to coffee shops in amsterdam to buy cannabis to get high, and 18-year-olds will be able to legally get high, a joint, but not a menthol cigarette in amsterdam! if this seems to you to have a logic, commissioner, i am curious to know what it is! if you do not know where cannabis is sold, ask the many assistants of the left-wing members who want this directive, who leave brussels every weekend to go on pilgrimage to amsterdam. and then, all these bans, these restrictions, also, commissioner, to protect the embryo from smoking - why should pregnant women not smoke - then we are... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. last december, the european commission presented a proposal for a revision of the european tobacco products directive. the commission proposal includes measures to reduce the differentiation between packaged products and the space reserved for trade marks. in my view, this would constitute an infringement of the intellectual property rights of the manufacturing companies and would also lead to the elimination of entire categories of products from the legal market by encouraging consumers to orientate themselves towards products from the illicit trade. i would also like to draw the attention of the european commission to an economic fact of considerable importance: the italian tobacco industry directly employs some 200 000 people, to which must be added the employees of the industry. the application of the proposal for a revision of the directive in question, as envisaged, would entail substantial economic and employment losses for the italian supply chain in this sector, which, at a historical moment such as the present one of persistent economic crisis, would be desirable to avoid. as i have pointed out in the many amendments i have tabled in the envi committee in recent months, i would like to reiterate here that, in order to safeguard the survival of the tobacco sector as a vital sector for the economy, a review of the prohibitions on the use of ingredients in cigarette manufacture is essential.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow's vote on the revision of the directive on the environmental impact assessment of certain public or private projects is a crucial test for the future of the union's environmental policy, the impact of which will be reflected for several years in the lives of millions of european citizens. this directive is of fundamental importance because it establishes the principle of informed decision before authorising projects which may have a significant impact on the environment, from motorways to intensive poultry farms. after almost 30 years of application, it is therefore time to revise this text, not only in the light of the critical issues identified but also to align it with the new priorities that the union has set itself in the meantime, such as the soil protection strategy, the roadmap for an efficient and effective use of resources, the 2020 strategy and the protection of biodiversity. i would like to pay tribute to the commission's determination to propose this text, which is certainly necessary but which is unfortunately - and i say this with a heavy heart - perhaps too ambitious for the sensibilities of a large part of this house. as rapporteur, i have already declared my full and unwavering support for this proposal and shared its content. consequently, my proposals have been limited to strengthening the text, such as introducing a clear rule against conflict of interest, or proposing the adoption of corrective measures in the event that monitoring and the resulting compensatory measures are ineffective. unfortunately, many colleagues - particularly from the conservative groups - from countries where the current directive is applied effectively, have strongly opposed this text, which is considered burdensome for businesses and difficult to apply for public administration. the climate of cooperation between the shadow rapporteurs, which i am grateful for, has led to a major revision of the text, without, however, distorting the ultimate objective of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the start-up procedure for all the actors involved: public administrations, contracting authorities and the public concerned. as a result of the compromises reached, for example, the one-stop shop has become an option for member states like scoping, the information that the contracting authority has to provide in the screening procedure has been simplified and a framework has been established regarding decision times that allows member states to shorten response times if they wish. the amendments which have caused the most noise, however, are those concerning shale gas, which the commission did not include in its proposal. in line with the precautionary principle and as requested by parliament in its sonik resolution of 21 november 2012, i proposed to submit the exploration of unconventional gases, i.e. shale gas and natural gas from coal fields, to an environmental impact assessment. i believe that our water is too precious a commodity to be put at risk by the use of high impact drilling techniques such as hydraulic billing and therefore it is vital for the european union that the exploitation of shale gas is subject to the strictest environmental standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is a pity because the lithuanian presidency has been very determined to complete the analysis of the text and, despite a tight timetable, an agreement at first reading before the end of the legislature is still possible. i therefore appeal to the sense of responsibility of my colleagues to bear in mind that with tomorrow's vote we have the opportunity to equip the union with a crucial operational tool to respond to the global challenges of the 21st century and to contribute concretely to the realisation of a green economy capable of ensuring the sustainability of the projects we want to implement in our territories and a better quality of life for all citizens of the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner hedegaard, i thank the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done so far, i also thank all the officials in the groups and i also thank my staff, in particular my assistant, mrs chiara faloci. i would like to return to the question of shale gas to clarify this point and to say that it is not a question of making a choice for or against this type of extraction, but simply of subjecting it, like all other very important activities, to an environmental impact assessment. as the alde group we have tabled an amendment which seeks to find a cross-cutting agreement and which practically eliminates that part of the assessment provided for in the assessment but retains the environmental impact assessment as regards exploration and extraction. as far as exploration is concerned, for those very impactful phases like hydraulic fracturing, which is the one that creates the greatest concerns and the greatest problems to the potential pollution of the aquifer. as regards the problem raised by some colleagues of the jobs that such a directive could lead to, i would like to take the example of ilva, a large industrial complex which is in danger of closing down because of immense environmental and health problems and is in danger of leaving hundreds and hundreds of people at home. so if we do a serious and intelligent environmental impact assessment - as the commissioner has pointed out earlier - we will also avoid that there may one day be problems for the environment, but also for the economy and for the jobs of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, knowing the sensitivity of president schulz to this parliament, i would humbly ask that a subject such as the debate on immigration policy be set for a forthcoming meeting of parliament in strasbourg. we hear from leading figures that this is not just an italian problem, but that governments should be consulted before decisions are taken on common legislation and common action on immigration. i would like instead for governments to listen to this parliament, because my colleagues and i are people directly elected by the european people and we want to express our views, so that governments will adapt. we don't want to be alone and we don't want to be or are like malta or other countries... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to thank the regi committee for bringing this report to the house with 40 votes in favour and only 2 abstentions. i would like to make it clear that it does not contain any revolution, but only a proposal for a balance between rigour and growth and it takes up the proposal for a derogation that was launched by president barroso to allow investment in the area of infrastructure, competitiveness and employment within the framework of the spending of the structural funds. i ask this parliament to exercise its legislative role responsibly, without being conditioned, without being prejudiced and representing the european citizens and not a government.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs sartori on the cooperation agreement between the european community, its member states and ukraine, which will allow the extension of the use of the global civil satellite navigation system egnos, thus extending industrial cooperation and developing trade with that country.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the conclusion of the agreement with ukraine on satellite navigation systems can greatly benefit the eu as a whole. the extension of egnos (the first european satellite navigation system) to ukraine, in addition to its participation in the galileo programme, would allow for very fruitful cooperation with the union in the field of satellite navigation, in particular in science and technology, industrial production, the development of services and markets, and standardisation and certification. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the ukrainian authorities have not yet taken the necessary measures to ensure the proper functioning of the market in the area of the transport of dangerous goods.
in writing. − satellite navigation is one of the classic examples of synergies that can be achieved through a supranational agreement, especially where other competences are already integrated, as in the case of the eu. it is therefore an area where membership of the european union maximises the added value for each member state. that is why i am following developments in this field with great interest. cooperation in this area with ukraine is a way of involving our neighbour in our policies, hence as a foreign policy tool, while at the same time it presents risks in terms of access to data, which must always be monitored. i voted in favour of this agreement because i agree with the approach taken and i commend the rapporteur for the work she has done.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and ukraine. europe has defined a state-of-the-art global navigation satellite system (gnss) that will provide an accurate and secure positioning service for all types of civil applications. the modern and efficient satellite infrastructure will strengthen europe's technological independence, keeping europe at the centre of a commercial revolution based on positioning products and services, satellite positioning has become essential for socioeconomic prosperity and gnss has already become the backbone of a growing multi-billion euro industry. taking into account the common interests of europe and ukraine in the development of a global satellite navigation system for civil purposes and recognising the importance of galileo as a contribution to the navigation and information infrastructure in the european community and the advanced satellite navigation activities of ukraine, this cooperation agreement can only encourage, facilitate and enhance cooperation between the parties in global satellite navigation for civil purposes.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for italy, as support for the reintegration into the labour market of workers who have lost their jobs in the field of information and communication technologies (ict) in recent years makes it possible to stem, at least on the employment side, the negative effects of the deep crisis affecting companies operating in this sector. as is well known, increased competition from countries with low production costs and the rapid spread of new information technologies have brought many italian and european ict companies, already hard pressed by the current difficult economic environment, to their knees. in this context, the european globalisation adjustment fund, by promoting the re-employment of redundant workers, is an effective, albeit partial, solution. it should be remembered that the structural problems of the ict industry can only be addressed through broader solutions that are targeted at enterprises and create favourable conditions for them to invest, innovate, create jobs and compete successfully on the global market.
in writing. − within the budget for the european globalisation adjustment fund, the commission proposed to allocate eur 1.1 million for the co-financing of actions to facilitate the reintegration into the labour market of the 480 workers made redundant by jabil cm s.r.l and anovo italia s.r.l, two lombard companies specialising in ict electronic products. these resources must be made available as soon as possible so as not to delay the implementation of this instrument of support for workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr garriga polledo's report because it effectively reflects the current situation in lombardy. one of the most prosperous regions in italy, producing about one fifth of italy's gdp. the current economic crisis has created the need for a secondary source of support for workers who are suffering the effects of changes in the global market. the local trade union organisations (cgil, cisl, uil, cisal) were involved in the design of the measures of the egf coordinated package. as vice-president of the femm commission, i would like to stress that in the various phases of the implementation of the egf and in access to it, both a principle of non-discrimination and a policy of protection of gender equality will be applied.
in writing. - we are in favour of the release of the necessary funds to support lombard workers so that the ict sector can be reborn in lombardy and italy, and convert its structures appropriately in line with international competition. with this vote we are allowing the reintegration into the world of work of 480 workers in specific sectors through a skills assessment, monitoring, coordination and management of the plan of personalised interventions, tutoring and company scouting. we therefore hope that the lombardy region will do what is necessary to manage the transfer of funds from the national to the regional level, supporting local business initiatives that need to breathe after the current economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr garriga polledo on the mobilisation of the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, to protect the rights of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis and the interests of small businesses which have been forced to close down because of low-cost competition from firms in other countries. this is the case of two companies in lombardy which produce electronic components. the economic crisis and competition forced them to close down, leaving their employees unemployed. the egf provides aid in this case to limit the impact of the economic crisis on the people working in the enterprises concerned.
in writing. − in italy, decreased ict demand and investment by both consumers and enterprises caused by the crisis contributed significantly to the slow-down in the italian ict and electronic components sector. the italian government is responsible for providing assistance in reintegrating 480 workers into employment, including interview techniques, skills profiling, tutoring and occupational guidance, exploring job opportunities with new employers, matching skills and jobs and mentoring during the first phase of a new employment, all of which are associated with significant costs. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. thus i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the fund to ensure those who experienced the recent shock to the economy will receive necessary support.
in writing. - today, parliament approved in plenary an appropriation of eur 1 164 930 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the italian authorities to facilitate the reintegration of lombardy workers during the current period of a sharp increase in unemployment. in the lombardy region, two italian ict companies - anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l. - made 529 redundancies during the period from 20 march 2011 to 20 december 2011. the numbers are alarming. for this very reason, i am pleased with today's decision and i am sure that the funds allocated will alleviate the terrible economic recession in italy, which is rooted in the global crisis and the dynamics of globalisation.
in writing. the european parliament voted to approve aid worth €3.7 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help around 1,030 workers laid off by the car manufacturer de tomaso automobili in the provinces of turin and livorno and another 529 workers who lost their jobs when two computer companies in lombardy, anovo italia and jabil cm, went bankrupt. this was a practical aid not only to revive two italian excellences but above all to meet the needs of the many families who lived off them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because in europe the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. in italy, the ict sector had achieved fairly satisfactory results in the period from 2005 to 2008, achieving a good level of production and economic growth. since 2009, unfortunately, due to the economic crisis that hit italy and the strong competition from low-cost countries, there has been a decline in demand and investment in the ict sector. this sharp decline in the ict sector in italy has also affected the two companies covered by this proposal, anovo italia s.p.a. (province of varese) and jabil cm s.r.l. (province of milan). the package covered by the report comprises measures for the reintegration into the labour market of 480 workers from the above-mentioned enterprises, which together form a coordinated plan of personalised services and represent active labour market measures aimed at the reintegration of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the riquet report which proposes the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund and the allocation of € 2 594 672 to de tomaso automobili workers.
in writing. - i am particularly convinced that i shall vote in favour of the report: the de tomaso case is an example of the situations for which the fund was set up. i know the situation firsthand because about half the staff involved in the projects financed were employees of the former pininfarina plants in grugliasco, near turin. this is a story that has had unflattering pages, which have added further bitterness to the workers who have lost their jobs; in particular, there was an opportunistic attempt, soon unmasked by the determination of the local authorities and the investigating authorities, to take advantage of the widespread concern arising from the crisis in the company and the need to come to the aid of the employees and suppliers of the inductance in order to divert public funds, conditional on the maintenance of production and the retraining of the employees. in this sense, the measure - which i am sure will be quickly adopted by the council - acquires the value of moral compensation for the workers, who will finally see their right to an opportunity recognized, and of recognition of the good work on the dossier, the result of the collaboration of the authorities concerned, from the italian government to the regional administration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a parliament decision, as it is intended to promote the reintegration into employment of some of the many workers who have lost their jobs in the italian motor vehicle industry. the automotive industry is a major force for growth and prosperity in europe, employing a large number of skilled workers and providing a vital impetus for knowledge and innovation. the size of the automobile industry is also of concern to the whole of europe and, consequently, the difficulties it is currently facing require an effective response at european level. the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of this response. however, the european union's action must increasingly be geared to fostering the development of a strong automotive industry, capable of innovating and competing globally. to this end, i will continue to give all possible political support, in all the relevant institutions and bodies, to the revival of the automobile sector as a whole and the thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises which operate in it.
in writing. the european commission has proposed to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund and allocate €2.6 million to italy to help the 1010 redundant workers at de tomaso automobili s.p.a. on their way back to the labour market. it should be noted that, despite the fact that the budget for egf operations for 2012 was exhausted, it was possible to raise the necessary resources and that agreement was reached in the council on the reintroduction of the crisis-related mobilisation criterion in the egf regulation also for the period 2014-2020. they are important signs of attention to a world of work in serious distress.
in writing. - i hope that this money, just over two and a half million euros, will really help the more than a thousand former de tomaso workers who have been affected by the crisis at the historic and prestigious company. many of them have rightly felt that they were being mocked, including by the latest social developments: unfortunately, we should never play games and speculate on the workers' lives, who are the main victims. much of the european automobile industry is in crisis, suffering from the continued growth of asian manufacturers in particular. it is sad to have to accept that glorious brands are in difficulty, even forced to close down, as they are unable to remain on the market. more and more often we find ourselves voting for these european globalisation adjustment fund loans: it is a clear symptom that there is something upstream in european industrial policy that is not working as it should and that needs to be addressed immediately. i hope, however, that for the workers in livorno who have been affected by the closure of de tomaso, this money will be useful in helping them to find new employment and overcome the enormous difficulties they have had to face in recent months.
in writing. − compared with its major competitors, automobile manufacturing in the eu fell well behind in terms of growth. the eu is losing its market share in the sector; the eu-27’s market share in world production decreased from 28.4 % in 2006 to 26.3 % in 2010. in italy, many workers in the automobile manufacturing sector are expected to be reintegrated into employment in other sectors, and it is necessary to provide related services such as training, re-training and vocational training, accompanying measures towards business creation, etc. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. thus i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the fund to ensure those who experienced the recent shock to the economy will receive necessary support.
in writing. − in italy, as in europe, the market share of the automotive sector has been considerably reduced, with the eu market share of world motor vehicle production falling from 28.4% in 2004 to 26.3% in 2010. as the commission has also stated in its assessments of previous cases of egf intervention in the automotive sector following the globalisation of trade, the decline in the union market share is part of a long-term trend. the same considerations are also contained in the final report cars 21, published on 6 june 2012, which confirms that the european market is losing ground to the world market for passenger cars. considering that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market, the measures initiated for the 1010 de tomaso automobili workers together form a coordinated package of personalised services and represent active labour market measures aimed at reintegrating workers into the labour market. i therefore express my favourable opinion.
in writing. the gomes report calls on the commission to set up an action plan to establish a mechanism for identifying and sanctioning private and public sector officials involved in cases of corruption and human rights violations in third countries, especially those to which eu economic aid is directed. i agree with the aims of the report, but i find the text unclear and unbalanced, and i therefore abstain.
in writing. - the report is concerned with contemporary and ancient problems: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the whole, however, it deserves a favorable vote. the tfeu also recognises legality as a necessary condition for economic and human development and corruption is therefore closely linked negatively to the exercise of civil and human rights. in the age of global communication, each episode contributes to an amplifying effect of the bad reputation of the country concerned, reinforcing the spiral of investment and consequent opportunities away; it is undeniable that corruption in third countries fuels corruption in governmental bodies and finances, also through money laundering, illegal trafficking, including the odious trafficking in human beings. the problem is so deep-rooted that even the world bank says it is unable to assess the actual levels of corruption in some countries. we have a duty to involve the european institutions in the fight against this, starting with the recommendations made by the committee chaired by mr iacolino last week.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution by parliament on the subject of corruption. the damage caused by corruption in the various public and private sectors and the serious consequences it brings to the public and individual welfare are highlighted in great detail. i agree that the european union can play an important role, especially by promoting cross-sectoral rules to reduce corruption. i am firmly convinced that this can be combated by information and education which will have an impact on the social behaviour which is fuelling it, and at the same time promote transparency and publicity of operations and actions. i am particularly in favour of the proposal to decriminalise, within the member states, the rules on defamation and slander when they concern complaints about cases involving allegations of organised crime, corruption and money laundering in the member states and abroad. this would make it possible to combat the lack of awareness which too often accompanies these criminal phenomena and which are dangerous for our civilised societies.
in writing. the report calls on the commission to develop an action plan to identify cases of corruption and help local populations. the aim is to establish a mechanism to identify and sanction officials from third countries involved in human rights violations and, in cases of corruption, to provide tax relief to the poorest people who may be victims of this phenomenon. i am voting for abstention because this report, while containing the shared objective of stopping corruption, has other less shared points.
in writing. − this report highlights the close links between corruption and human rights violations, which are typical of contexts where there is abuse of power, lack of transparency and the institutionalization of various forms of discrimination. the situation is aggravated by the fact that the very institutions which should guarantee respect for democracy and human rights are often permeated by corruption. the european union should ensure better monitoring and greater transparency in the use of funds for aid to third countries. states should strengthen the powers of anti-corruption institutions and extend their jurisdiction over individuals of any nationality who have committed crimes of corruption or misappropriation of public funds within their territory.
in writing. - the scourge of corruption in the public and private sectors must be combated by all possible means and, as the european union, we have repeatedly taken initiatives in this direction. the report, for which i voted in favour, also highlights the particular effects of corruption on human rights in third countries. in the context of bilateral agreements concluded by the eu with third countries, account must therefore be taken of the impact on human rights of corruption, which is often widespread because it is difficult to control in countries with a strong economic and social expansion. the eu must therefore step up its efforts and pay ever greater attention to the protection of fundamental human rights when it concludes trade or other agreements with these states.
in writing. − the european parliament has always stressed that corruption in the public and private sectors undermines democracy, governance and the rule of law, with significant repercussions on the respect and protection of human rights in third countries. the fight against corruption requires the elimination of tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight from developing countries by introducing rules requiring transnational companies to automatically report profits and taxes paid in all developing countries. we therefore believe that the european union should adopt a common approach to both the external and internal dimensions in order to limit the non-transparent use of eu development aid. we therefore call for greater accountability and traceability in the use of eu aid funds and for a framework to be established for bringing legal proceedings against eu and foreign companies suspected of corruption in third countries.
in writing. - corruption is a harmful element which undermines the european parliament's ability to promote reform and development in third countries. it is clearly hindering progress in the fight against discrimination, gender equality and equal opportunities policies. corruption can affect disadvantaged groups, such as women, by preventing them from political participation, access to public services, justice and education. the cost of corruption stands at around 5% of global gdp, impeding economic growth and therefore poverty reduction. accessible data and open and transparent forms of government give citizens control by giving them access to information about government budgets and expenditure. these and other factors have led me to vote in favour of the report by mrs ana gomes.
in writing. - i would like to quote some figures from the world bank, according to which corruption represents 5% of global gdp and over 1 000 billion dollars are paid in bribes every year. corruption also accounts for 10% of the total cost of doing business globally. these figures are staggering and give a good idea of the damage that this widespread and illegal behavior is doing to the entire global economy. the situation is particularly serious in the least developed countries: according to some estimates, between 20 and 40% of the total aid received by these states is lost through multi-level corruption mechanisms. this is unacceptable, and the european union, the world's largest donor, should be at the forefront of ensuring that aid actually reaches those who need it and is not used to finance corrupt politicians and officials. we cannot afford to throw tens of billions a year into aid that does nothing but enrich a few notable people: i therefore hope that there will be strict and rigorous controls on the allocation of these funds, to ensure that we who pay them are protected and that those who should actually benefit from them are protected.
in writing. − in both public and private sectors, corruption undermines efficient governance and the rule of law. it also misallocates resources, which hinders the reduction of poverty. a key observation is that 25 % of all investigations initiated by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) concern european external aid to third countries, and eur 17.5 million have been recovered as a result of these investigations. practically, in order better to combat corruption in the eu which impacts on third countries, it is necessary to build a global system to track aid pledges and hold donor countries to their promises of aid, and to hold them accountable for the projects, institutions or groups that they support. i therefore voted for this motion.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report on corruption in the public and private sectors because europe will have to put in place increasingly effective measures to reduce and eliminate such phenomena. corruption is a threat to the eu because it pollutes our economies and puts honest citizens in difficulty. corruption is not only an abuse of delegated power to obtain an unfair profit, thus hindering harmonious economic development, but also creates unfair and discriminatory situations with regard to the equal enjoyment of human rights, whether civil, political and economic or social and cultural, creating negative impacts on the environment and disproportionately affecting the most disadvantaged and marginalised groups in society, depriving them in particular of equal access to political life, public services, justice, security, land, employment, education, health and housing. i would also like to stress that corruption often fuels crime and contributes to it by creating situations of social conflict, inevitably undermining the protection of human rights. i therefore believe that the fight against corruption should be given increasing weight in the framework of eu initiatives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this owninitiative report of parliament because i consider the european system for policy and strategic analysis (espas), which brings together officials from the european commission, the european parliament, the council of the european union and (on invitation) the european external action service, to be a very useful tool. it is important to support cooperation between officials in the various european bodies and institutions involved in the formulation of future policies. in the current context, it is more urgent than ever to identify and analyse the key trends and challenges, and the resulting policy choices, that europe and the world are likely to face in the coming decades. reflect and discuss today to better plan for the future.
in writing. − we are in a period of profound change and must therefore prepare ourselves to face new and particularly challenging challenges. the union budget for 2010 therefore financed a pilot project that could provide analyses of likely developments on the most important issues for transmission to policy makers. the pilot project has been successfully completed. today we voted to move to the next stage, the establishment of the european system for policy and strategic analysis (espas). funding and developing this system on the basis of the principles outlined in this report will enable us to improve our ability to identify key issues, to improve the quality and content of our public debate and ultimately to decide better and faster on key issues in the interests of citizens.
in writing. − the elaboration of long-term socioeconomic strategies and their implementation are the responsibility of both the european institutions and the public institutions of the member states; the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the following areas: with this report we want to underline the importance of the multiannual financial framework and its role as a fundamental instrument for the long-term planning of the european project, taking into account the european perspective and the union's added value. we therefore call for better coordination between the eu budget and the national budgets of the member states, in order to strengthen complementarity, coordination and synergies without duplicating resources, thus making an effective contribution to the achievement of the eu 2020 targets. we therefore recommend closer coordination of such reporting initiatives and the creation of an interinstitutional system for identifying long-term trends on the major policy issues facing the union, involving staff from all relevant eu institutions and bodies and creating a necessary reporting mechanism and a programmatic discussion involving the interest groups, business associations and non-governmental organisations concerned.
in writing. − rapid transitions have been taking place in recent decades in the area of dynamics of power, demographic change, climate change, urbanisation, technology, etc., and we can expect to witness more such transitions in the coming years. policy-making in the eu will depend more and more on the timely identification of long-term trends, which requires the establishment of a permanent system at eu level to provide analyses of these trends. according to the report, the proposed new system will provide policy-makers with common analyses of the probable outcomes of major policy issues, which will help to anticipate possible trends. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − as we are living through a period of very rapid change, there is a need for policy makers to invest more effort in studying and monitoring the main long-term trends. the new global environment will increasingly evolve towards a higher level of uncertainty, which is why the identification of global trends will be a key aspect of europe's ability to prepare for and respond to future challenges. forecasting is more than just trying to find out what's going to happen tomorrow, it's a way to focus attention on the things that matter today. a better understanding of global change should help to provide the union with information and analysis to make more informed choices on issues of critical importance, and a better understanding of how long-term trends are likely to develop will enable the union institutions to gain a greater collective awareness of emerging priorities in the future policy agenda. i am in favour of a permanent interinstitutional system for analysing long-term trends which will help to improve decision-making within the union.
in writing. the reform of the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters was signed last december. in my view, a number of important improvements have been made, including the promotion of a procedure which will make it easier to enforce a judgment in another member state. however, some decisions of the court of justice of the european union in the area of private international law and employment law have raised concerns about the possibility that european union rules may have consequences for the rules that protect workers' rights in the member states. i agree with the rapporteur that some further improvements to the regulation are needed to ensure that national legislation is not compromised in the european internal market. the aim of the amendments to the regulation is mainly to ensure legal consistency and to prevent prejudice to national legal traditions in the field of labour law, ensuring, as far as possible, that jurisdiction and applicable law do not overlap. in this context, i believe it is important to ensure that a member state can exercise jurisdiction over disputes to which its labour law applies.
in writing. - i support the regner owninitiative report on the improvement of private international law on jurisdiction rules applicable to labour. this proposal will make it possible to close the current gaps in labour law legislation, increasing legal certainty while preserving national legal traditions.
in writing. − given that labour law remains a subject largely left to the legislation of the member states, european union rules, which identify the applicable jus and the competent court for labour matters characterised by elements referring to different legal systems, are an essential instrument of harmonisation and judicial cooperation on such a sensitive subject. as is well known, the process of european integration has led to a sharp acceleration in the mobility of workers and businesses within the union and, as a consequence, to a sharp increase in crossborder employment relationships. in this sense, this proposal improves the rules of the brussels i regulation by extending to trade union activity and individual contracts of employment the principle that jurisdiction and the law applicable in labour disputes should, where possible, belong to the same member state. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal to amend the brussels i rules on jurisdiction in labour matters and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. the report aims to improve private international law to protect employees. the aim is not to interfere with national legislation and to leave it to a member state to exercise jurisdiction over labour law. i am voting in favour of the report because the proposal guarantees respect for national legal traditions on the right to work.
in writing. − with today's plenary vote, parliament has taken a further step in defining the jurisdiction applicable to labour law matters. the recast of the brussels i regulation, signed on 12 december, left a major gap in this area. i would remind you that labour law remains a particularly sensitive area in which the union has only a marginal influence. it is for the member states to define national labour legislation which respects the balance between workers' rights and freedom of activity. however, the application of the principle of free movement of workers does not allow us to ignore further crossborder labour disputes, for which there are serious difficulties in identifying the competent court. the amendments proposed by the report concerning the forum for disputes in trade union matters and the clause on the right of withdrawal in the absence of a habitual place of work do not cover all the shortcomings of the brussels regulation. they do, however, ensure greater legal coherence without uprooting national legal traditions, and they ensure greater protection for workers and our citizens.
in writing. − following the recasting of the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, a loophole has opened up concerning certain aspects of the rules on jurisdiction applicable to labour law which were excluded from the new legislation. we must remember that labour law is an area in which the european union exercises only a relatively marginal influence, and it is therefore not for the european union to try to interfere with national legislation in this area. however, in the light of the free movement of workers and capital, it is necessary to lay down certain rules governing, in cross-border situations, which courts of the member state are entitled to rule on disputes, including in matters of labour law. we therefore welcome this report, because the aim of the amendments contained in it is to protect employees collectively and individually, who are generally the weakest party in the employment relationship, and to ensure legal consistency and to prevent the prejudice of national legal traditions in the field of labour law, ensuring, as far as possible, that jurisdiction and applicable law do not overlap.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by parliament on the improvement of private international law: the rules of jurisdiction applicable to employment. the debate on the exercise of powers within the eu is an issue inherent in the very nature of the community system. the general principles on which the allocation of those powers is based must be accompanied by a consistent implementation of the rules governing the applicable law in the case in question in the field of employment law. european private international law must provide clear guidance on the choice of court, and for this reason i welcome the points made in this motion for a resolution in the context of the revision of the brussels i regulation. in view of the possibility of applying the reorganisation procedure, the commission must clarify that article 7 (2) refers to the place where the trade union activity in question was undertaken. finally, if the overlap clause is applied, the place of work must not coincide with the location of the enterprise, but with the place where the worker 'receives or has received daily instructions'. in this way, the question of jurisdiction can be settled more efficiently.
in writing. − on 12 december 2012, the recast of the brussels i regulation was signed. the merger procedure does not affect certain aspects of labour law. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has decided to publish a report on labour law, in view of the forthcoming amendment to the brussels i regulation. although labour law is an area in which the european union exercises marginal influence, it must be borne in mind that on the basis of the free movement of workers and capital within the european union, the union has established rules governing, in cross-border situations, the jurisdiction of the member states also in matters of labour law. the report considers it important to ensure that, as far as possible, a member state can exercise jurisdiction over disputes to which its labour law applies. jurisdiction and the applicable law should belong to the same member state, where possible. i therefore support the amendments proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution of parliament as i believe that it provides a detailed and effective framework to ensure full compliance by member states with the obligations arising from title v of the maritime labour convention 2006. as is known, the convention has now been ratified by a sufficient number of countries to ensure its entry into force and the european union has complied with the rules set out in titles i, ii, iii and iv of the convention by means of directive 2009/13/ec. european legislation therefore needs to be brought into line with the provisions of the clm, which stipulate, in particular, the establishment of an effective system of inspection and certification of maritime working conditions by member states on ships flying their flag. such a system is an indispensable condition for the substantial guarantee of the rights and important forms of protection provided for by the clm. in this sense, parliament's draft legislative resolution constitutes an important step towards the full transposition into eu law of the international standards established by the clm, providing a comprehensive and harmonised framework for the application of the specific rules contained therein.
in writing. − the report provides for member states to empower third bodies to inspect and certify vessels through monitoring; in addition, it is empowered to detain vessels found to be in breach of directive 2009/13/ec. i am voting against this because there is a fear that maritime trade will be paralysed by excessive surveillance measures.
in writing. − this report addresses the issue of flag state control over the application of the requirements of the 2006 maritime labour convention (mlc), in particular as regards ensuring that ships comply with the requirements of the convention accepted by the flag state. the flag state's responsibility to ensure such compliance should be enshrined in union law by including as much as possible the provisions of the clm, in order to avoid divergent interpretations by member states and related instances of unfair competition. i therefore agree with the amendments to the original proposal by the empl commission which go exactly in this direction.
in writing. − incorporating the maritime labour convention (mlc) into eu laws is consistent with the single european transport area strategy towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system declaring a social agenda for maritime transport. enforcing seafarers’ labour law rights as agreed in the mlc will strengthen the maritime transport dimension and protect europe’s interests at global level. this proposal attempts to create a strong guidance framework for member states in their duties as flag states. to avoid different interpretations by member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping, the report stresses the need for specific requirements. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − today we voted to apply council directive 2009/13/ec on the convention relating to the employment of seafarers. it is considered that aspects of the maritime labour convention (mlc) 2006 should be enshrined in community law in a more detailed and specific manner and that some aspects of the legislation should therefore be amended. these amendments will concern in particular the general principles governing the responsibility of each state for ships flying its flag, the authorizations of recognised organisations, the introduction of a certification system and complaint procedures on board. i believe that, ultimately, today's decision will improve the current legislation on maritime labour.
in writing. − the eu has recently adopted council directive 2009/13/ec, which is an outstanding achievement of the social dialogue in this area and this proposal aims to ensure that it is adequately equipped for its implementation in the union. to this end, it is envisaged that member states will be required to apply directive 2009/13/ec in the exercise of their powers as flag states. however, the european social partners, who wish to implement their agreement by a council decision on the basis of article 155 tfeu, do not have the power to include in the agreement the implementing provisions of title v of the clm and have invited the commission to do so. this initiative aims precisely at this objective as regards the responsibilities of the flag state, and is part of the wider context of union policies aimed at enhancing the positive aspects of the maritime professions in the eyes of european citizens through actions involving the commission, member states and the maritime sector itself from time to time. for these reasons, i am in favour of the proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not smoke, i say that, but i am fully committed to the right to health, to correct information on the risks of smoking, to prevention, especially for young people, but let us be clear: we are not banning tobacco use in europe: we are banning it in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united kingdom, in the united kingdom, in the united kingdom, in the united kingdom, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united states, in the united kingdom, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, in the united states, the directive aims at stricter rules, proper information on the risks of smoking and prevention, especially for young people. i therefore believe that we must also make efforts to protect the legitimate rights of the european tobacco industry, which is a highly professional sector, a product of excellence, which guarantees maximum traceability. the commission has therefore been careful to destroy a high-quality supply chain by opening the door to less controlled extra-european production, produced without respect for social, environmental and quality standards. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that none of us is questioning the harmfulness of smoking, that is out of the question, and yet i believe that it is essential to strike a balance between legitimate health concerns and the sustainability of our european tobacco industry. for this reason, while i appreciate the rapporteur's work, i felt i had to disagree on a number of points, as regards the use of flavourings and additives, consumer warnings and slim cigarettes. a legislative measure must not stifle entire market chains and the supply chain linked to them, and it cannot in fact be the solution to the just battle against smoking. tobacco-producing regions need policies for converting production, otherwise they will be the ones to pay the very high economic, social and employment costs of this new discipline. mr president, i believe that we must not hit the workers without substantially reducing the number of regular smokers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe's task should not be to criminalize smoking, but to inform people about the dangers of smoking: the freedom of choice of the consumer is a priority. when too many limits are imposed in a field like this, there is a risk that smuggling of cigarettes will be encouraged. the various prohibitions, including the prohibition on the use of additives, even natural ones, will have a single effect: smuggled products will be brought to the european market at lower prices than legal products, but with the same characteristics as traditional cigarettes. it is a pity that the tobacco used for smuggled cigarettes will come mainly from third countries, causing huge losses for the italian and european tobacco chain, which offers a guaranteed product, and additional risks to the health of smokers. just think that in europe more than 80% of smuggled cigarettes come from china and that in 2010 alone 64 billion illegal cigarettes were consumed in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the process of this directive, which is still in progress, has given the epp a role, particularly to the italian delegation, which has succeeded in introducing significant improvements. i am referring to the fact that the electronic cigarette cannot be sold only through the pharmacy network, as if it were a medical device, but it is right that it be sold in the traditional cigarette sales network which is the controlled and guaranteed one - at least on italian territory, but not only - through the tobacco shops. i would also like to stress that i have heard the theme of education among young people repeatedly, as if our regulations were supposed to educate young people. i would remind this house that young people must be educated by their families, so perhaps it is better to give more power to families where young people can perhaps learn that smoking is harmful, if there is any reason for it, because it seems to me that from this point of view national information campaigns are there and can only be made more effective.
in writing. - smoking is still a major cause of death within the union. it is a voluntary cause, since individuals freely choose to smoke, and the practice is not prohibited in our countries. nevertheless, it is right and proper for the institutions to identify all appropriate measures to achieve the objective of reducing smoking, especially since, according to the data available, young people are the most vulnerable to this practice. health is undoubtedly a primary good to be protected, but other related aspects cannot be ignored in identifying the most appropriate measures to combat smoking, given that the tobacco market has a considerable impact on national and european gdps. personally, i find the whole comparison on labelling excessive because, in my humble opinion, we will not have a reduction in european smokers if we leave 5 or 10% more on the warning label. without considering that the trademark is a guarantee of consumer protection because it ensures the quality of the product against counterfeit goods. we will be able to reduce tobacco use drastically through appropriate information campaigns, education programmes in schools, and by trying to guide the consumer's choice which is and remains free.
in writing. the vote by our assembly represents a decisive step towards further reducing tobacco consumption in the european union. the figures provided by the world health organization are both encouraging (think of the european death rate from smoking, which fell from 40% in 2002 to 28% in 2012) and puzzling. we are witnessing a worrying trend in the number of young smokers, despite the general decline in smoking. and yet, in the european union, there are still as many as 700,000 deaths caused by smoking every year! the answer which parliament gave in its vote is therefore an attempt to discourage the use of nicotine, for example by extending the health warnings to 65% of the surface of the cigarette pack or by banning vanilla, chocolate and menthol flavoured cigarettes, although not immediately. alongside the appropriate measures mentioned above, there should be widespread information campaigns on the harmful effects of tobacco on the health of smokers - often leading to a real addiction - and of 'passive' smokers.
in writing. the document voted in plenary clearly indicates the way forward: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tobacco. parliament has today taken a rational position by refusing to pass commercial measures such as the diameter of cigarettes and the rounded corners of packets, as if they were proposals made in the name of protecting people's health. such measures are likely to favour the illegal market. to create ever more smoke-free environments, the right way is the italian way: the ban on smoking in public places and the education of the very young, from the first years of school. i hope that important decisions will be taken in this respect in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs mcavan's directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products because it is part of an organised, effective and long-term anti-smoking strategy, with well-defined scope and objectives. i am particularly in favour of those provisions which make smoking less attractive to young people. it should not be forgotten that smoking remains one of the main causes of death, and that among young people (15-25) it is a higher percentage than in the whole european population. voting in this way will bring enormous benefits for the future in terms of reducing tobacco consumption, not to mention the fact that the directive contains elements designed to discourage young people from taking up smoking.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it's called personal freedom. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the tobacco industry is not affected by the introduction of new products. we therefore support measures to regulate the sale of electronic cigarettes in order to give consumers an effective alternative, but we do not think that some of the drastic measures presented by the commission and the rapporteur are appropriate, as they will not reduce the problem. rather than continuing with laws that kill people, there are other issues to be addressed which make smoking even more dangerous, i am referring to european legislation which requires the 'automatic' switching off of cigarettes, leading smokers to continuous lighting, and therefore combustion, with the increased chance of contracting cancers.
in writing. the directive on the processing, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products is a particularly important and sensitive text in which the best compromise between consumer protection and the protection of the production chain has been sought. over-regulation of tobacco production and trade would have damaged market balances, increased the risk of counterfeiting and led to job losses in the long run. on the other hand, efforts have been made to protect the health of consumers, especially young people, by increasing the number of contraindications and prohibiting the use of additives which might make tobacco more appealing to a younger audience. finally, it is hoped that this directive will reduce tobacco consumption in europe by avoiding too much damage to businesses and workers.
in writing. − smoking has become an increasing concern in europe; it remains the leading cause of preventable death in the eu and kills around 700 000 people per year, whereas from 2005 to 2010 smoking prevalence among young males increased in 14 countries and among girls in 9 countries, according to a recent who survey. concerning the harmfulness of smoking, it is important for policy-makers to ensure young people are well informed of the health hazards caused by smoking and are discouraged from smoking, especially in relation to the recently-emerged market in e-cigarettes, herbal products for smoking, and cigarettes with flavours and alternative additives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, having voted overwhelmingly in favour of this report, i would like to emphasize the role of parliament in international fisheries agreements, which means that in the last few months parliament has had to take a very strong stand against the commission in order to give life to this type of report, trying to make the fisheries agreement appear as a mere trade agreement and to make it appear as part of the investment that europe is making in these poor countries, on which there is an objective need to maintain the environmental impact of our activities. i think that a good agreement has been reached, this agreement provides that europe, in return for a payment, can enjoy fishing opportunities for certain european fleets and it is the most important agreement, the most onerous of the whole package of agreements. it is a good agreement, we were right to vote for it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the fisheries protocol negotiated between the eu and mauritania should be rejected. the fisheries protocol does not bring benefits to the eu, since the conditions of exploitation of the fisheries are such that they are not profitable, and at the same time it does not bring benefits to mauritania either, since the absence of the eu fleet will deprive it of a large part of the financial compensation, without taking into account the economic losses for the local coastal population. the general opinion expressed by national administrations and the fishing industry is that this protocol is expensive in relation to the fishing opportunities and technical conditions imposed and therefore not profitable. in conclusion, given the inefficiency of the fishing possibilities and the abusive nature of the technical conditions, i believe that the objective should be to review the fishing conditions and, consequently, to negotiate a new protocol.
in writing. − the revised eu-mauritania fisheries protocol, which was negotiated by the eu-mauritania joint committee for the 2012-2014 fisheries agreement, has room for improvement, especially as regards the cephalopod fisheries. however, some satisfactory results have been obtained. given the importance of the protocol, which involves 102 vessels, 12 member states and 8 fish species, and the need for it to enter into force as soon as possible in the interests of the european and mauritanian beneficiaries, i believe that the compromise reached sufficiently guarantees the union's position and must be implemented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of two years. the agreement follows the guidelines set by parliament and proposes a new partnership model in the fisheries sector. the text promotes the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, contributing to environmental and social sustainability, protecting the seabed and the local fisheries sector and improving food security. the protocol is not only a good investment for taxpayers and the european fishing industry, but also a key element of the eu's cooperation programme. the agreement can play a stabilizing role for mauritania and the sahel region, improving security and the fight against terrorism and radicalisation in the region. for these reasons, i believe that the protocol is an important signal of the eu's concrete commitment to a sustainable fisheries policy consistent with development policies.
in writing. - mauritania, which does not have its own national fleet, has opted to let foreign fleets, including the eu, exploit its resources. in its relations with mauritania, the eu must help the country in its social and economic development, and will provide sectoral support to ensure that mauritania manages its fishing activities sustainably and is able to combat illegal fishing by applying the principles of good governance and respecting international law of the sea. it is important to clarify that sectoral aid under the fisheries agreement is not the only cooperation aid that mauritania receives from the eu. the general opinion is that the current protocol is expensive in relation to the fishing opportunities and technical conditions imposed and therefore not profitable. the eu is not benefiting from this, since the conditions for exploiting the fishing opportunities it has obtained are preventing it from being profitable, nor is mauritania, since the absence of the eu fleet will deprive it of a large part of the financial compensation, without taking into account the wealth generated for the local coastal population by the activities of the vessels and the salaries of the seamen, for these reasons i am in favour of rejecting the current fisheries protocol.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased with the votes we have taken as the epp and, above all, with the role played by the italian delegation, because i think that it has done itself a favour and has particularly responded to the needs of our citizens, those who are represented in this parliament and who, from our point of view, are not only italians but also citizens of the whole of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that in 1990 more than 100 million women were demographically missing from the world population as a result of genocide, and according to recent estimates this number may have risen to almost 200 million. genericide is usually committed whenever a pregnant woman, either of her own free will or under pressure, decides not to give birth to a female fetus because females are considered a burden to society. it must be emphasized that genocide remains a crime and a serious violation of human rights, which requires effective means to combat and eliminate all the root causes of this crime. i therefore join the call on governments to specifically criminalise femicide or genicide and therefore to develop and implement legislative measures to ensure that cases of femicide are investigated, perpetrators are brought to justice and women survivors are guaranteed easy access to health and long-term support services.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, genocide is an atrocity, an unacceptable violation of human rights and an extreme form of discrimination and violence against women. we are talking about millions of women around the world who have never seen the light of day because of the practice of infanticide and selective abortion and the women who have disappeared from the world population, their only fault being that they were conceived or born of the wrong sex, considered a burden to the family and to society. it is an intolerable extermination whose consequences generate more abuses, more injustices, forced marriages, human trafficking, sexual exploitation, precisely because of the strong gender imbalance that is caused. education, awareness and empowerment are needed to trigger a reversal of the trend, but we also need a strong political commitment against this cruel form of discrimination.
in writing. - gendercide is first and foremost combated by a strong cultural change and the case of south korea, which is moving towards normality, although it had a distorted numerical ratio between the sexes, is proof of this. there is no doubt that the stereotype of preference for the male child must be combated and this must certainly be helped by a policy and culture which encourages equality between the sexes. but not only is genicide a problem for the women who suffer it, but also for the lives that are not respected in them because of practices of pre-birth gender selection and forced abortions. the european union should, in my view, have a clear and strong position on this, in line with what the declaration of the rights of the child says, that 'every child has the right to adequate legal protection before and after birth, to survival and development and that girls enjoy equal status'. in addition to a policy in defence of life, europe should also spread the culture of conscientious objection as a means of refusing to give rise to abominable practices that disrespect life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs papadopoulou's report because it represents a concrete commitment to combating social exclusion and discrimination and to promoting justice and gender equality. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. governments must address democratic shortcomings by legislating to defeat discrimination against girls and achieve the active participation of women in all sectors. we must aim at achieving economic, social and educational empowerment for women.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on genocide: the missing women. gender-based violence is a serious problem that significantly alters the gender balance and has a strong social and economic impact. this phenomenon arises from an ingrained preference for the male child in some societies, which leads to significant gender inequalities and does not allow full equality of women in access to education, health and employment. the resolution presents an integrated approach to combating genicide, calling for it, as well as sex selection, to be specifically qualified as crimes and reaffirming the importance of women's empowerment. in addition to raising awareness of women's rights, it is essential to address the socioeconomic causes underlying the phenomenon and ensure equality between women and men before the law. i welcome the call for the eu, in line with the european council on development, to introduce a strong gender component in partnerships with developing countries and humanitarian aid packages, identifying the issue of gendercide as a priority. for these reasons, i believe that the resolution represents an important step in the fight against the serious crime of genocide.
in writing. − equality between men and women and non-discrimination of gender is an essential part of human rights, enshrined in the treaty of european union. however, systematic, deliberate and gender-based mass killing of people belonging to a particular sex exists in many regions of the world. it is a global issue that pregnant women are under pressure not to give birth to female foetuses and sex ratios are considerably distorted, which significantly impacts the economy and social stability. the incentive of preferring to give birth to sons is not merely cultural, but also economic, as ageing parents are better supported, because inheritance goes to sons in their tradition, which is particularly important in developing countries, where no reliable social security system is in place. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal to call on governments to promote gender equality, especially through combating the root causes of gendercide.
in writing. − the eu, through its treaty, promotes values common to all member states such as pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between men and women, and enshrines the principle of gender mainstreaming by stating that the union's actions aim to eliminate inequalities and promote equality between men and women. i therefore support the eu's inclusion of genocide as a priority in its political dialogue with the third countries concerned and its inclusion as a key item in the post-2015 development policy agenda. in this fight against genocide, it is significant and encouraging that south korea is moving towards normality, achieved through a clear cultural change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that despite the attempt to empty this measure of its content, the straight bar has been kept - as they say in naval jargon - and i think that a good service has been rendered to europe where it is proposed to free from the grip of the stability pact those public investments which are financed by european structural funds. moreover, a position already shared by president barroso, which allows public resources to be released on national territories that come from this institution, thus a way of moving that economy which is stagnating throughout the european territory and which from these palaces, from this world, we want to help grow with contributions that unfortunately remained frozen in the budgets because of the so-called stability pact.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial cycle 2007-2013 is coming to an end and the balance we can draw from it, at least in the italian case, is not entirely positive. despite the serious economic and social crisis in europe, i must point out that hundreds of millions of euros have not been spent, not because of incompetence on the part of some people, but because of a budgetary pact that was too strict. most italian local authorities were faced with a surreal situation, as the lack of funds for local authorities was countered by a scenario in which vast resources were available but not usable, suspended for reasons that were completely incomprehensible. it is a matter of conviction that the budgetary pact has in this case proved inadequate to meet the challenges of the crisis. only a growth pact that allows for major investment at union level will be a suitable solution. today, it is agreed that without investment, fiscal austerity and budget cuts cannot revitalize the economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, without greater flexibility in the implementation of the stability pact, the conditions for economic recovery will be lacking: in recent years there has been a steady decline in investment with negative repercussions on education and sustainable employment. we cannot give economic growth a new impetus by fiscal austerity and budget cuts, and that is why i am opposed to macroeconomic conditionality, which would have a negative effect on regions and social groups already weakened by the crisis. europe needs growth, it needs development, it needs to strengthen the administrative capacity of local authorities, it needs to reduce bureaucracy, it needs to streamline, it needs to speed up, in order to facilitate access to the structural funds and to enable the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy to be achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, investment in local authorities is being constrained by budgetary constraints and current expenditure and is a necessity if we are to reverse the negative trend caused by the economic crisis and prevent the burden of public debt from increasing for future generations. the correct and efficient use of the structural funds can therefore be a useful instrument for redistributing investment at regional and local level. unfortunately, this is not the case because the institutions often have difficulty in obtaining the necessary self-financing to cover the various projects that can be built. the european parliament has thus set out a clear path towards the elimination of the structural deficit in public expenditure on programmes cofinanced by the european structural and investment funds. i therefore voted in favour of mrs mazzoni's motion and i join in the congratulations which have been paid to her.
in writing. − the recent economic and financial crisis in europe has put severe strains on the public finances of the member states. in addition, as the crisis has continued, the question of the ability of local authorities to secure productive investment has become increasingly complex. in this context, i believe that the commission's intervention is essential and is aimed at presenting concrete proposals to allow the greatest possible flexibility in national co-financing of the union's development expenditure, within the framework of a rigorous implementation of the stability and growth pact. to this end, i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to analyse the extent of the effects of the current crisis on the ability of subnational authorities to pursue the growth and job creation objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to suggest ways of improving the financing capacity of these institutions so that they can support investments in the first place. in view of the ongoing negotiations on the future cohesion policy and the open debate on the future of economic and monetary union, i believe it is crucial to exploit all the margins of flexibility in macroeconomic governance to allow for appropriate investment, in particular by reviewing the relationship between the stability and growth pact and productive public investment.
in writing. - i support and approve the report, which is based on the need to strike a balance between the need for fiscal consolidation and the need to promote recovery through smart public spending, and on a spirit of austerity which has proved counterproductive to budgetary objectives and, in its effects, contrary to european and popular values. the principles of solidarity cannot be abandoned in favour of a superficial race to achieve public finance objectives in an academic dimension, when fundamental indices are deteriorating substantially, so as to jeopardise any prospect of recovery. european funds should be used with an awareness of the current situation, recognising the role of local authorities, provided it is clear that they must share a fiscal responsibility. it is no secret that some local governments have contributed significantly to the increase in public debt without corresponding reforms and better services to citizens. i agree with the recommendations in paragraphs 19 to 24 on the split of the expenditure to co-finance programmes supported by the structural funds for the purpose of calculating the ceilings of the stability pact and on the audit clause between 2015 and 2016.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr erminia mazzoni because i believe that it is urgent to overcome the current constraints on national co-financing of structural fund programmes. this is a concrete proposal to ensure the widest possible flexibility, within the framework of the stability and growth pact, in the allocation of financial resources by member states to co-finance eu structural funds programmes. greater flexibility under the stability and growth pact would make it possible to reconcile investment needs more effectively with fiscal discipline objectives. in the context of the current economic crisis, investment is the key to boosting competitiveness, growth and job creation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important own-initiative report and i congratulate the rapporteur on her work. i share the position taken by the whole of parliament, namely that we must identify as soon as possible measures to ease the rigidity imposed by the stability and growth pact, especially as regards the impossibility of supporting productive investment. local authorities are the weakest link in the multi-level governance system, as they suffer from cuts by the states, and thus cannot provide services and at the same time cannot generate productive investment. in this situation, it is difficult to predict that the crisis will be overcome and that inclusive, intelligent and sustainable growth will be achieved. i therefore agree that parliament should identify and suggest viable options and support them in all the negotiations that will take place from now on: the commission has also adopted a communication on the future of economic and monetary policy. the cry from the countries of southern europe in particular can no longer go unheard: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - the subject of this resolution is of great interest to italy. at present, the resources made available by the european union, through the structural funds, and national co-financing are considered differently: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. this situation must be remedied by ensuring greater flexibility in the allocation of funds by the member states to co-financing. this choice will enable member states to invest and take advantage of the development opportunities that the structural funds can offer. this resolution is an opportunity for parliament to send a strong signal and to promote greater support for investment, responding to the demands coming from our territories.
in writing. − the current economic crisis has created the need to impose severe constraints on the public finances of the member states, but it has also created an increasingly complex situation for regional and local authorities, which are no longer able to guarantee productive investment. in this particular context, we agree with the rapporteur that it is important to put forward concrete proposals to allow as much flexibility as possible for national co-financing of eu development spending, within the framework of a rigorous implementation of the stability and growth pact. the european parliament can and should suggest options to enable local, regional and national authorities to invest in inclusive, sustainable and smart growth. we therefore welcome this report which proposes, for example, that public expenditure linked to the implementation of programmes co-financed under cohesion policy and rural development policy may be excluded from the limits of the stability and growth pact as it is intended to support competitiveness and growth.
in writing. - it is undeniable that the regional and local authorities have been greatly affected by the chain effects of the crisis and the austerity imposed by europe, which has, if possible, even made the situation worse. a broader and more flexible approach is needed to enable regions and municipalities to contain the effects of the crisis and to facilitate a recovery as soon as possible. all the economic data show that the measures of blind rigor which have been taken so far have failed, and it is often the intermediate administrative bodies which are the most penalized. you can't grow without investment, and that should be clear to everyone: this does not mean throwing money out the window, as unfortunately many regions have done, particularly in southern italy, but it does mean that appropriate planning is needed to meet the needs of the territory. the stability and growth pact, which later gave rise to the fiscal compact, is one of the evils that underlie the current difficult situation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − budgetary constraints on regional and local authorities in the use of eu structural funds tend to have negative effects because they limit national co-financing of programmes. the impact of the economic crisis on the different regional realities and the role that eu cohesion policy should play in supporting investment also require reflection. i therefore believe it is appropriate to urge the institutions, especially now that the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework are being concluded, to come forward with a proposal that can overcome the constraints on funding due to budgetary constraints imposed on local authorities in compliance with the stability and growth pact by simplifying access to funds and investment for growth and jobs.
in writing. − dear madam or sir, public finances have experienced difficulties in the current crisis and are, in the meantime, under great pressure from the increasing demand for social services to be provided by the government. it is essential for the member states and regions to have some flexibility, in order to respond as effectively as possible to shocks to the economy regarding territorial, economic and social specificities, and to ensure that vulnerable regions and groups are protected from further suffering. i am convinced that more limitations reducing government expenditure will undermine the eu’s capacity for tackling crisis and that public expenditure related to the implementation of programmes co-financed in the framework of cohesion policy and rural development policy, supporting competitiveness and growth, should be excluded from the spg limitations. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the report by mrs mazzoni on the effects of budgetary constraints on regional and local authorities in relation to eu structural funds expenditure in the member states was voted on in plenary today. the current crisis places severe constraints on the public finances of the member states and it is becoming increasingly difficult for subnational authorities to secure productive investment. on the one hand, they are experiencing a sharp decline in revenue and, on the other, they have to provide, as a result of the crisis, increasingly demanding social services that put additional pressure on public coffers. in this context, it is important that parliament identify options to enable local, regional and national authorities to invest in inclusive, sustainable and smart growth, in particular by reviewing the relationship between the stability and growth pact and productive public investment.
in writing. − the report on budgetary constraints for regional and local authorities in relation to the eu structural funds, starting from some general observations on the economic crisis and its effect on regional disparities, analyses the financing capacity of the regions of the european union and the degree of synergy between the local and the european level, calling on the commission and the member states to strike a balance between the needs for investment and fiscal rigour. i have decided to support this report because it suggests a path of moderation of the penalties against member states and the austerity measures discussed in the legislative package on the 2014-2020 structural funds. it aims to boost investment while respecting the rules of rigour by proposing an improvement in the direct investment capacity of local authorities towards productive investment.
in writing. - the current economic and financial crisis will have significant effects in the long term, not only on the economy but also on the unemployment rate, with inevitable social repercussions, which is why i express my favourable opinion on the following motion for a resolution which envisages giving greater priority to creating synergies between the eu budget and the budgets of the member states and local and regional authorities; improving existing provisions so that regions in certain member states, which are particularly affected by the financial crisis, can further enhance their capacity to absorb structural and cohesion funds and prevent the large expected decommitments; the commission has also been able to identify a limited number of priorities in order to concentrate efforts, while maintaining effective flexibility to enable member states and regions to pursue common objectives as effectively as possible, while respecting their specific territorial, economic and social characteristics.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pacific report is a report which has very important features because of two factors: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. i myself, a year ago, had to say that the tuna caught in that area, especially in the last two years, is an endangered tuna: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the report is important because it lights a light and i hope that the commission will take this into account.
in writing. - given that the pacific is extremely rich in fishery resources and is the main fishing area for highly migratory species, i believe that a long-term fisheries strategy for the western central pacific should be defined. the area is the subject of the eu's new trade strategy based on the economic partnership agreements and is also the recipient of a substantial part of the region's development funds through the edf. the eu's main objectives are to promote socioeconomic development in the region through climate change adaptation and foreign trade policy and to promote sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources through a transparent management system. european policies therefore need to be coordinated in order to increase potential synergies, maximising the benefits for both pacific states and the european union, and to increase the eu's visibility in the region. in addition, a future fisheries strategy will have to be linked to the forthcoming cotonou agreement. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
in writing. the report focuses on the need to develop a long-term strategy for fisheries in the central and eastern pacific, the largest fishing area for highly migratory species such as tuna. the strategy will have to address the issues of adaptation to climate change, the development of foreign trade, the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and transparency in fisheries management, in the interests of both the countries of the area and the union. it will also be a factor to be taken into account in defining the eu's future approach to the pacific countries.
in writing. − the western central pacific is the main fishing area for highly migratory species, particularly tuna, with 80% of the world's catches. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that european policies need to be coordinated in order to consolidate synergies and to achieve benefits for both the pacific rim states and the european union. measures to monitor fishing vessels should also be taken to significantly reduce illegal fishing and improve its management.
in writing. − we welcome this report, which aims to recommend the establishment of a long-term strategy for fisheries in the western central pacific, taking into account the need to coordinate european policies in order to strengthen potential synergies, achieve a multiplier effect, maximising the benefits for both the pacific states and the european union, and increase the eu's visibility in the region. a future global fisheries strategy will necessarily have to be linked to the forthcoming cotonou agreement. most of the countries of the western central pacific are island states which are part of the acp group of countries. given the potential evolution of this agreement, this new strategy will therefore have to be part of the new approach to eu relations with these countries, a new approach based on a regional dimension. the main objectives of the european union should, in our view, be to promote socioeconomic development in the region through climate change adaptation and foreign trade policy, and also to promote sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources through a clear, sustainable and transparent management system.
in writing. − the pna is a sub-regional agreement between the federated states of micronesia, kiribati, the marshall islands, nauru, palau, papua new guinea, the solomon islands and tuvalu. its main objective is the management of tuna resources in the eezs of those islands. distant water fleets are expected to contribute to reducing fishing pressure on tropical tuna stocks, including endangered species that are currently overfished. there is currently a multilateral agreement between the countries of the area and the usa; however, the existing system suffers from a lack of transparency and poor results in terms of meeting objectives, with reductions always being significantly exceeded. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal to establish a feasible framework to promote sustainable tuna fishing in the western and central pacific.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session this morning, voted on a report by mr estévez on the union's overall strategy for fisheries in the pacific. consistent, coordinated and long-term modalities of action should inspire the eu in the development of an action plan on trade, development and fisheries policies with the countries of the western central pacific, which are members of the acp (asia, caribbean, pacific) group of countries with which important trade partnership agreements are already in force (cotonou 2010). on fisheries issues, it is crucial to strengthen the union's presence in the region in order to promote sustainable fisheries through transparent management, which will bring long-term benefits both to the union and to the pacific states, which already receive significant community aid. as a full member of the committee on fisheries, i can only express my support for a resolution which, in my view, increases the visibility of the eu in the region by promoting its socioeconomic development.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report because its objective is to recommend the establishment of a long-term fisheries strategy for the western central pacific that takes into account the need to coordinate european policies in order to strengthen potential synergies, to achieve a multiplier effect, maximising the benefits for both pacific states and the european union, and to increase the visibility of the eu in the region, so as to achieve consistency of union policies with the development objectives as provided for in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, thus contributing to greater stability and prosperity in europe, promoting cooperation at regional and subregional level and ensuring that the eu fisheries policy is compatible with the regional treaties and agreements in force, including the nauru agreement and the related implementing protocols.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is an important report because it concerns the mediterranean and the interaction between eight european countries and 14 non-european countries. we have missed an important opportunity, but unfortunately an amendment has been passed which has slightly distorted the value of the report in its complexity. the amendment was of extraordinary importance because it encouraged europe to build bilateral relations and to build real agreements to ensure that the same fishing rules apply in the mediterranean as in europe. in fact, today we are witnessing a very strict relationship between europe and its seas, with rules and a complete absence of rules in the other mediterranean countries. this is a missed opportunity! the report does, however, have some positive features, which is why i voted for it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr nikolaos salavrakos because i believe that better regulation of fisheries and territorial waters can help to avoid the emergence of any regional tensions and conflicts in the maritime areas of the mediterranean and the black sea. i believe that the introduction of economic zones and protection zones will effectively preserve the integrity of both basins, which are too often overexploited and congested by human activities such as fishing and maritime traffic.
in writing. − given that the mediterranean and black seas have specific characteristics from an oceanographic, fisheries, environmental and socio-economic point of view, and that increased competition for marine resources and more limited fish stocks leads to the emergence of regional tensions and possible disputes between coastal states concerning maritime areas, i believe that greater cooperation and political cohesion are needed between the coastal states concerned and i stress the important role of bilateral cooperation and international agreements, as the majority of the countries in the black sea and mediterranean region are not eu member states and are therefore not subject to union legislation. integrated maritime policy, and maritime spatial planning in particular, plays a central role in preventing conflicts between eu member states and with third countries. however, i believe that the eu cannot afford to provide financial and technical support to the third country to apply eu-level standards of sustainable management, given the limited funds allocated to the fisheries sector.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr harbour's report to harmonize the legislation in force on pleasure craft and watercraft designed for use at sea and in inland waters, with the exception of craft designed and used for the commercial transport of passengers. the amendments include reductions in noise and exhaust emissions, the introduction of more flexible conformity assessment procedures and alignment with horizontal standards on accreditation and ce marking.
in writing. − all the recent maritime disputes are mainly due to the exploitation of limited marine resources, mainly due to the over-exploitation and unsustainable use of some of them in the mediterranean and black seas. with this report, which has been adopted today, we wish to stress that the settlement of disputes relating to the delimitation of maritime boundaries and the establishment of fisheries protection zones must be carried out in full compliance with international law, on the basis of the principles of fair cooperation, transparency, equality and equity, ensuring the sustainability of marine resources and the protection of ecosystems, in particular by respecting the united nations convention on the law of the sea, and in particular article 62. the european union, for its part, considers it appropriate to continue to support developing countries in the coastal areas so that they can implement sustainable fisheries management plans in their territorial waters and effectively combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. we therefore call for the adoption of a long-term strategic framework for scientific cooperation in the mediterranean and black sea basins, fostering cooperation in the field of marine research, including the exchange of scientific information and data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr salavrakos' report because the issues it highlights are of vital importance at this historic moment. the mediterranean sea is currently a significant resource on the world scene, accounting for 30% of the world's maritime traffic. the maritime management of this area is a requirement to be protected in accordance with the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos). an integrated maritime policy and appropriate maritime spatial planning are needed to prevent conflicts. sustainable fishing and increased control of iuu (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing must be promoted. a regional approach to the protection of fish species, sustainable fishing in the mediterranean and the black sea, is useful in respecting the waters, since these seas have limited rates of renewal and are therefore subject to heavy pollution.
in writing. − fishing remains an important sector in the mediterranean regions, creating significant wealth and jobs. the number of people concentrated in coastal areas is predicted to increase in the coming decade, which will cause the demand for fishing and water resources to increase as well. as a result, there will be greater competition for smaller stocks and marine resources, leading to the creation of regional tensions and possible disputes between coastal states about maritime areas. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal to call for increased efforts at regional, national and eu level towards enhancing the regulation of access to resources in order to ensure effective governance and international cooperation.
in writing. - i am in favour of this, because the union must make efforts to improve access to resources so that overfishing in the mediterranean and the black sea can be phased out, since the depletion of fish stocks will increase the risk of conflict in the area. this will only be possible if maritime management in the mediterranean and black sea is carried out with cooperation and political cohesion between the coastal states concerned, stressing the important role of bilateral cooperation and international agreements, as most countries in the black sea and mediterranean region are not eu member states and are therefore not subject to union legislation, which is why i call on the eu, in order to improve cooperation with neighbouring countries and the management of shared stocks, to aim at the conclusion of cooperation agreements for sustainable fisheries with these countries; calls for the cooperation agreements to be aimed not at acquiring fishing rights for eu vessels, but at creating a situation where the eu provides financial and technical support in order to have the third partner country apply standards comparable to those of the eu in terms of sustainable management;
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, thanks for your remarks, suggestions and, i believe, willingness to cooperate in good faith. mr kalfin, mrs tomašić, mrs sinclaire, mr marinescu, mr zemke, mr mulder, the council very much supports the idea of transparency. furthermore, in line with article 19 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the council has provided parliament with all the relevant information linked to the discharge procedure. the council has therefore no further treaty obligations with respect to the discharge of its own budget. according to the tfeu, the only basis for a discharge procedure is the european court of auditors report. it should also be noted that article 319 of the tfeu gives the council and parliament the same mutual access to, inter alia, their accounts, their financial statements and their replies to the observations of the court of auditors. parliament, however, has not so far provided the council with any information of any kind on the discharge of its own budget. despite this clear legal situation, the council has proven on many occasions its commitment to transparency. as a matter of fact, the council has made two proposals to parliament which aim at a radical change in the two institutions’ cooperation on the discharge procedure. more concretely, the council suggested replacing the current arrangement of non-intervention between parliament and the council with an arrangement which ensures transparency and full accountability on a reciprocal basis between the two institutions. in spite of the fact that parliament has in the past actively asked for such a new approach, it declared in its resolution of may 2011 that it considered that the idea of concluding an interinstitutional agreement with the council on the council’s discharge would be unnecessary. but now, nevertheless, mr president, thank you for this opportunity to respond to some of the points made in this debate. of course all the points that were made will be brought back to the council. i would like to reiterate that the council is not interested in creating any unnecessary friction with parliament. let me state this one more time: as far as the council and the european council’s section of the 2011 eu budget is concerned, the positive content of the annual report of the court of auditors speaks for itself, and more generally the council’s offer to parliament of negotiations remains on the table. i therefore encourage parliament to cooperate and work with us in finding a long-term solution to this ongoing institutional disagreement. we owe it to our citizens to ensure that the budget is implemented with a proper regard to the principle of sound financial management and transparency.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner geoghegan-quinn in particular for being here, and also the council, which i see is present and attentive in the chamber. the european research area is a very important objective for the european union, especially at this moment in our political and economic life when we must create the right conditions for it to grow again and to be truly competitive with the rest of the world. the era must become a reality as soon as possible if we are to see an integrated area where researchers, ideas and innovation can circulate freely and produce results that will return the european union to the leadership it has held for many decades. the european council launched this ambitious project back in march 2000 and article 179 of the lisbon treaty reiterates its objectives and provides a new and stronger legal basis for esr-related policies and initiatives. the europe 2020 strategy is the driving force behind initiatives to boost european competitiveness. it is driven by innovation, which is the very element we must value, protect and promote if we are to move away from the crisis once and for all. the strengthening of the scientific and technological base of the european union by creating a european research area is an objective contained in our treaty and as such must be pursued with the utmost conviction. the innovation union has made important steps in this direction, but to really achieve the goal of completing the era by 2014 we need to make many more important steps. we need to europeanise research and innovation more so that, through more effective national systems, transnational cooperation and the circulation of scientific knowledge can flow freely. only then can we create the environment for investment, which is lacking today, especially private investment, compared with other parts of the world where our competitors are. by reducing administrative burdens, promoting the mobility of researchers, the portability of their calls, also working to create a new figure, a new generation of european researchers and aiming at a single european research contract, and improving strategic coordination for national commitments. we are starting from the small things, but as this question shows, parliament wants to go ahead with conviction. the commission shall monitor the process through a monitoring mechanism established to monitor the process and make it transparent to parliament, the council and the scientific community as a whole. the first progress report of the era under this mechanism was published on 20 september 2013. the competitiveness council met on 27 september and reiterated its support for the main objectives listed in the report. as the european council of 24 and 25 october will be discussing the report and these issues, i think it is essential that the european parliament expresses itself through today's debate. we must convey to the heads of state and government the conviction that this is a fundamental step towards closing the gap that is increasingly separating us from our global competitors. in this context, the itre committee adopted this oral question to ask the european commission and the council to outline the actions that are considered necessary to achieve the objective of completing the era by 2014 and whether the actions that member states have taken to date are sufficient to achieve the era objective. in the light of the erc reports, a greater commitment is needed from all the actors involved, institutions, member states, stakeholders in general, towards the direction of a european research area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of my colleague mr luigi berlinguer, who is very much committed to the implementation of the maastricht research programme. if we are to achieve the european research area, we must first of all break down the fragmentation that exists today by bringing national strategies and instruments more into line. since 2000, the gap between member states has widened, not only compared with the 28 but also compared with the 15 in 2000: gap in national investment, in the performance of research systems, in priorities and in the way results are disseminated. the progress report shows that the road to completing the era is very long and one thing is clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. despite the measures taken, we see that the more advanced countries are being strengthened and the selfishness of individual member states is being unleashed, in direct opposition to the aim of harmonization and the creation of a common force. the aim must therefore be to achieve genuine cohesion, based on merit, by governing the process of harmonization, by adopting measures which oblige the member states to follow this path and to take the appropriate measures, in short, by promoting solidarity which can be beneficial for all states. the measures are well known, from the opening up to national calls for proposals - the president also referred to them by introducing them - to the use of a european evaluation system, open access, an open, transparent and merit-based recruitment system. finally, i think it would be very important to add a kind of green card for the researcher, which would really allow mobility in this common space that we want to create for research as well.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i first of all thank mr gustafsson and mrs parvanova for having tabled this question with me, but i also thank the 134 colleagues from all the political groups who, by signing this question, have wanted to emphasize that the fight against violence against women is an absolute priority for this parliament. our aim is to speed up the ratification process of the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence so that the convention can enter into force as soon as possible. as is well known, the istanbul convention was opened for signature on 11 may 2011 and is the first legally binding international instrument to establish a comprehensive legislative framework to protect women against all forms of violence. the goal is, of course, zero tolerance for this kind of violence: preventing and combating domestic violence and other specific forms of violence against women; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children and young people, and to extend the scope of the directive to include children and young people. it is important to note that the convention does not apply only to women, and the contracting parties are also urged to apply this framework also to men, children and the elderly exposed to domestic violence. what is the purpose of the convention? first, a call for a change in cultural attitudes, to promote greater equality between women and men, because violence against women is rooted above all in the gender gap in society and is perpetuated by a culture that in fact tolerates, or at least justifies, gender-based violence. the convention also identifies a number of types of crime such as female genital mutilation, forced marriage, acts of persecution and thus stalking, forced abortion, forced sterilization and domestic violence. the convention will only enter into force when it has been ratified by at least 10 countries, 8 of which must be council of europe member states. what is the present status of signatures and ratifications? we have 26 signatures not followed by ratification, only 5 ratification: 2 member states of the european union italy and portugal together with albania, montenegro and turkey. some member states are completing the ratification process. our question is: what measures can be taken to speed up the process of signature and ratification of the convention by the member states and by the european union as a whole? parliament has repeatedly called for a comprehensive policy approach against gender-based violence which includes measures to address the so-called 6ps of the framework on violence against women, namely: policy, prevention, protection, judicial process, action and partnership. in conclusion, i would remind you that the european institutions are very active on these issues, and that in the last four years we have adopted very important directives: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the rights of victims of crime, the fight against trafficking in human beings, the european protection order and child pornography, and is preparing a specific report on combating violence against women to be adopted during the current parliamentary term. so the institutions are sensitive, we are doing a lot, there are important laws, it is essential to transpose, ratify this istanbul convention because it is absolutely up to date and cutting edge, but i feel i must conclude by saying that the first objective must be to change the mentality. good laws without a change in culture and sensibilities unfortunately only result in a continuous increase in the number of victims of gender-based violence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is a tragic problem and it is tragic that so many countries have not yet signed or ratified it. often the lack of adequate listening causes irreparable harm to women, but also to children and families. we call for the convention to be acceded to as soon as possible and for it to be ratified immediately. but signatures are not enough, there must be in every country the necessary legislative and cultural reform that helps women to denounce, that leads to real prevention and those measures to welcome and defend threatened and affected women. only early reporting can save you from violence and in many cases death. women must no longer feel alone and unheard! they need free legal protection, psychological support, and housing to accommodate them. we call on the council and the commission to do more than talk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join the voice of all the members who have spoken up to this point. i, as vice-chairman of the committee on women's rights and gender equality in this parliament, signed mrs angelilli's question with conviction because i am convinced that a europe free from violence against women and domestic abuse is possible, but that is not enough today. the convention was signed by 29 states but only 5 have ratified it - some colleagues have mentioned this - including italy, turkey, albania, portugal and montenegro. i am proud that my country is among the first to ratify it, but as we have said, for the convention to be applied, it will have to be signed by at least 10 other states, of which at least 8 are members of the council of europe. so, it's not enough yet, we're just getting started. this document is the first legally binding international instrument to create a comprehensive legislative framework to protect women against all forms of violence through measures of prevention, legal protection and support for victims of abuse and ill-treatment. so, mr president, we must encourage all the member states to continue the process of ratifying this convention through this parliament. but to see this chamber half empty today and, above all, with very few male colleagues present: what a pity! it is a great, great regret, not as a member of the european parliament but simply as a woman!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have heard the reasons why this parliament is urging the commission to take effective action to ratify the convention as soon as possible. we are facing a phenomenon which is spreading, which affects women - especially the youngest ones - and which must be countered with immediate action such as that contained in the convention. but i think the commission must also take account of the need for another necessity, namely the promotion of cultural action: violence unfortunately begins in the family, and in some cases even in the education of the youngest. then it must be fought with all the tools that democracy has at its disposal, starting with a deep and radical process of culturalisation of people who still live in relationships within their community without having respect for the other because they lack the necessary culture. these two things must be done quickly, to promote ratification and, on the other hand, to make the whole community aware of the existence of a real social drama, which can only be addressed if everyone agrees that it needs to be addressed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although there is more attention today to the tragedy of violence against women, the legislative process is too slow. the istanbul convention is a valuable instrument, but it is an unforgivable shame - made of inertia and distraction - that too few countries have signed it, much less ratified it! we have to fight back! we are asking, commissioner, and the whole commission, that a strong initiative be taken to move the member states with all the guidance and influence that the commission has. mr commissioner, frankly, what you have told us is too little and too weak! i am addressing myself to you, commissioner. we knew all this before. we ask what can be done for the future and what more can be done. we ask that programmes and resources for services be increased, we ask that the union consider whether it should also sign the convention, we ask whether it should not decide - as many of my colleagues from all groups have asked - to launch a specific directive against violence against women and to enable all member states to have rules appropriate to the seriousness of the problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that violence against women has now crossed all limits. according to the latest figures published by the world health organization, in italy alone - in my country - a woman is killed every two days, in the first half of this year there were 65 femicides! the scenario that is presented is a real war memo: almost 7 million women are victims of physical or sexual abuse. however, the attitudes and stereotypes that drive gender-based violence remain largely underestimated. we must act now on the cultural and social level and then change the regulatory and institutional level. we are now more than ever responsible for the second level, but no new regulation will ever make sense unless it is accompanied by a profound change in the way we think, speak, look and act, and this shamefully empty house is a very bad example of how we do it! i am proud to say that a law on stalking and violence against women is currently being discussed in the italian parliament, and it incorporates many of the provisions of the istanbul convention. i hope other countries will follow italy's example!
member of the commission. − mr president, the level of bilateral investment between the eu and china is still far below what one would expect from two important economic blocs. although foreign direct investment flows from the eu to china are on the increase, they only represent 2.1 % of total eu fdi outflows. the eu’s share in total fdi outflows from china also remains low, although the overall amount has increased strongly in recent years. promoting bilateral investment should be our joint economic objective for the years ahead. recent consultations with investors and stakeholders have confirmed the findings of our impact assessment study, namely that the main added value of an eu-china investment agreement resides not only in creating a level playing field on investment protection, but above all in generating further investment liberalisation. i look forward to the launching of negotiations for a bilateral investment agreement that will offer both protection to existing and future investments and create new market access on both sides, thereby providing the impetus for increased two-way investment flows. when i last met my chinese counterpart at the eu-china joint committee in june, i received reassurances that negotiations would cover all issues of interest to either side, including market access. i trust that the chinese negotiators will be empowered by the new leadership to reach an ambitious deal. negotiations towards an ambitious agreement will create positive momentum for our strategic partnership at large. the commission remains committed to engaging positively with china. a high level trade and economic dialogue with china on 24 october and the expected launching of investment negotiations at the eu-china summit on 21 november will be important stepping stones towards building a mutually beneficial long-term relationship with china. the successful launching of these negotiations will also mark the first ever mandate given to the commission to negotiate a stand-alone investment agreement following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the gradual deployment of eu investment policy. in addition to the dual objectives of investment, protection and market access, the eu will also endeavour to use these negotiations to promote the union’s general external action principles. for example, the commission will aim to address sustainable development matters such as preventing the lowering of standards to attract investment, supporting social and environmental standards, and providing a reference in support of internationally recognised standards of corporate social responsibility and appropriate procedures to address disputes in this area. just as our member states did in their bilateral investment treaties, the eu agreement should include investor-to-state dispute settlement provisions in the agreements. strong enforcement improves the protection of eu investments in china, reduces market-access barriers to investing in china and increases bilateral investment flows.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i will begin with an example that is apparently not relevant to this debate. i know that you love venice, commissioner, and at the venice biennale this year there was an installation by the chinese dissident ai weiwei, which is very beautiful and very realistically depicts the conditions of his solitary confinement. but nowhere in the installation is it indicated that the place of incarceration is the people's republic of china. there was, as it were, a kind of reverential fear on the part of the organisers not to create diplomatic problems by omitting that what you are witnessing is in china, in the china of beijing. we have also seen this reverential fear in our relations with china in part through a case in which we wrote a letter and received a reply concerning the conclusion of the anti-dumping investigation into chinese photovoltaics, which we would have liked to pursue more rigorously. the bilateral investment agreement is now an opportunity to put our relations in order with china, which is coming to europe to inject much-needed liquidity, to buy up companies in crisis and to open new ones, and which also represents a huge market for our investors who want to produce in china. the mandate we give the commission as a european parliament is to be firm, and this agreement will take time! we have time and it is good to establish at once that we must increase mutual investment, not as an end in itself but with the aim of promoting a more prosperous society in china as well as in europe. so no investment at the expense of environmental quality or social rights and the quality of intellectual property protection and a legal platform that protects our small businesses once they land in china with non-discriminatory access and legal certainty. in this way i believe that we will eventually have not only more trade but also a better cultural understanding of each other.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a globalised world there must be certain and shared rules, rules which china often and willingly does not apply. we are not just talking about human rights but about fairness in trade and investment. the lack of fairness is reflected in the well-known negative outcomes, including the millions of counterfeit or non-compliant products coming into europe from the east or the recent dumping. i have repeatedly drawn attention to the dangers of certain commercial practices and i have repeatedly drawn attention to the way in which investments are carried out in the two countries. europe has invested in china much more than china has invested in europe and there is no real reciprocity clause. an agreement with beijing presupposes common rules which must be respected, both in the investment sector and in others, to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past which have placed europe at a disadvantage in agreements with other economic partners.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this possible agreement between the european union and china is certainly a very important issue, also because it is a discriminatory line, in the sense that from here it will actually be possible to see whether europe and the european union are useful or not. we know how much difficulty our markets and our companies have had with counterfeiting by china and we also know that in this agreement the european union must not, of course, be complacent but must do its utmost to ensure that china is held to account. it certainly must not be an agreement that encourages relocation. i do not want it to be an agreement whereby our companies are made easier to go to china, closing down factories here and creating more unemployment! above all, it must be an agreement that provides for the fact that we cannot trade and cannot receive products from those who use cheap labour, perhaps imprisoned as unfortunately millions of people are in the laoghai, which are the chinese concentration camps.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over the last 15 years the trade flows between the european union and china have confirmed what is plain to see, namely our decline and the continuing rise of the asian country. this is not a coincidence, but a series of well-planned maneuvers by the beijing government: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trade in tobacco products. with these simple moves, china has, in effect, brought europe to its knees. today we are here again ready for another agreement which will only benefit them, not our businesses. the european union is showing all its hypocrisy, condemning all the chinese nonsense in words, but simply acknowledging it. we should instead start demanding that china also comply with a minimum of social, environmental and economic standards in practice; perhaps only then can we help our businesses that are closing and our workers who are losing their jobs. i am not saying that we should be united.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the commission, i believe it is essential that an agreement be concluded with china which would be the first since the treaty of lisbon to make foreign direct investment an absolute competence of the european union. the aim of this agreement is to prevent individual countries of the european union from discussing matters to the detriment of others, as has happened with the opening of a single office for tourist visas in france and germany. the europe-china negotiations date back to 1975 and at the summit on 14 february 2012 both sides agreed to enter into negotiations for such an agreement covering all issues relevant to each side and this willingness was confirmed at the 15th summit in september 2012. the aim is to improve the legal protection of mutual investment in key areas of technology and intellectual property rights, reduce the barriers to investment in china by ensuring better european access to the chinese market and address issues such as joint ventures. moreover, a single agreement will facilitate the flow of investment from china to the european union and chinese investors will no longer have to deal with different european rules. the european union attracted, in 2011, 225 billion and they are mostly chinese and emerging countries like china in 2030 will account for 60% ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement between europe and china? i think we're in for yet another mockery! we are talking about china not to defend our companies and our workers, the right to the environment, the right of exploited children, but only to help banks, insurance companies, multinationals - better if german! - to lay off people in europe and to open and do business in beijing. europe, this europe and this euro, are a fraud, they are responsible for thousands of suicides and millions of unemployed. why does china protect its goods and europe does not? the fact that we have outsourced trade policy to brussels is a disaster! you have removed the tariffs on shoes from pakistan, rice from burma, fruit and vegetables from morocco! i am convinced that there is a clear plan for a europe which serves the great powers, pretends to listen but then doesn't care! it's for those who want to close, fire, sell their jobs, their identity, their history, their business, their tradition. we're not staying here! the euro, which is a fraud and which we as a league will fight with all the means at our disposal, is the instrument for this massacre! where was the european union in lampedusa, commissioner? where was the european union in greece? how do you think you can talk to a giant like china when your absurd policies are killing agriculture, fishing, textiles, furniture, trade, crafts? you gave 5 billion euros to turkey, which fortunately has not entered and will not enter europe, i hope. could you not use it for our unemployed, our pensioners? you are abusing the patience of peaceful people who in padania, in italy, in austria, in europe, are getting angry and as the nobel laureate paul krugman wrote: patience is madness, and patience is fading! good job if you're going to keep working for i don't know how long.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after japan, south korea and now, in this very moment, when we are discussing china, i believe that the time has come to make a choice and to open negotiations with taiwan. the volume, trends and trade have increased over the years, although, as has been mentioned here, they are below their real potential. the eu is also investing heavily in taiwan, to the point of being the largest foreign investor. our companies have already been involved for some time in trade agreements, joint ventures or other arrangements with taiwan. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. this is why it is crucial to push for europe to work towards a trade and investment agreement with taiwan, to overcome hesitations, to move forward with determination. we also see this as an opportunity to contribute to the european union's own growth and development policy. taiwan is an extraordinary reality from the point of view of the democratic process and also from the point of view of economic and social growth and deserves new attention from the eu. in this connection, i believe that the work which the commission can undertake should be encouraged, also in the light of the new steps we are taking with china to open this phase of negotiations with taiwan.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, taiwan is an economic power with trade relations, including bilateral agreements, already concluded or in the process of being concluded with many countries, including the people's republic of china. but above all, taiwan is a power beyond economics, a democratic country, a country where we speak the same language of a pluralistic, inclusive culture based on legal certainty. so, as we are about to sign a bilateral investment agreement with beijing, i believe it is impossible to leave behind a clear and ambitious regulatory framework also between the european union and taipei. i believe that there are several reasons for this, on the one hand the high figures of our trade, which also include quality products: taiwan is one of the countries with the highest number of patents and technology applications per capita. secondly, our values: it is always more advantageous, at least from a moral point of view, to trade with a democracy than with a country which still has the culture of a single party. let's just say we can sleep better. and then there is a realpolitik reason: taiwan exists as a state, it is not recognized by the european union, but in fact it exists, it has been independent for a long time. blocking access to international organizations, for example - i think of the recent case of the international civil aviation organization - is also the result of a political position that takes into account the balance of power in the region, but it is nonsense given the reality of taiwan: we are not talking about the heavens here, but more prosaically, more concretely, about markets.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner tajani, i would like to congratulate our dear friend mr harbour on his brilliant work on the safety of pleasure boats and the protection of the environment, which is of vital importance, of course, for my country, italy, but equally important is the protection of the safety of those who do not go by boat but swim in that same sea. in fact, every year in my country many people are tragically killed, hacked to death by the propellers of those same pleasure boats without the driver even noticing. it is therefore more than urgent that it should be made compulsory at european level - and i am addressing the commissioner - for those who swim more than 100 metres from shore to use a signal buoy which can prevent the loss of further human lives, as is the case for those who practice diving and use such buoys when diving.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are discussing an excellent proposal for a directive on pleasure boats and watercraft, thanks to the work of mr harbour and the shadow rapporteurs and thanks to the attention the commission has paid to some important aspects. i think that this directive will then have to be supplemented by the redefinition of the design categories, with the caution and the depth that you have indicated here. what i think is important, and what can become a point of reference - i would even say a small model - is that the subject of safety and respect for the environment has been chosen for this sector, not only as a value for users, and therefore for consumers, but also as the central axis of a model of competitiveness, which in this sector concerns small and mediumsized enterprises, but which can be applied to the whole vast manufacturing area that counts in europe. so i am sure that it will be adopted tomorrow, but i think it is very important to reaffirm and emphasize these two aspects: the combination of environment and safety makes high-profile competition possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three points: 1° to go beyond dublin, so that they are received and distributed among all countries; germany is against it, it's a disgrace! 2° severe penalties for traffickers in human flesh and the international criminal court; do you know what the trafficker caught by the police in lampedusa is risking? the convictions of schettino, the one on the cruise coast of the island of giglio; it's a disgrace! thirdly, in the list of countries which commissioner barnier has given us - and i thank him for that - italy is not on it! i'm the one who's stuck! president barroso is in lampedusa today: ask president letta about that! it's a shame, as pope francis says! i also ask president barroso - who is already there - to check something that has come to me from lampedusa - where they do not like the shows of certain politicians who go there to advertise themselves, to visit... it seems that they kept the bodies in the un-air conditioned hangar for 4 days instead of taking them to where the bodies should be to show them to president barroso. you check it, it would be another shame!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to avoid an even more tragic war in the wake of the syrian tragedy, but we are not in a position to avoid the mass of refugees who have asked for help in many countries in the middle east, but also in many european countries. the european parliament's motion for a resolution we are discussing is important and entirely acceptable, especially because it finally establishes a principle that is valid for the syrian emergency, but which can now be applied to any emergency. there are some countries which have made more efforts, in our european union, germany had 14,000, almost 15,000 applications, sweden had almost as many. it is therefore still essential that our resolution stresses the need for a more consistent approach to the reception of refugees from syria and for greater solidarity with member states under particular pressure. the european solidarity clause is included because we are a union and not just a collection of national states, and this solidarity must be extended from today, without any doubt, to all those states such as malta, greece, italy and others who are daily subjected to migratory flows which they cannot cope with on their own.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the word we must recover as the european union is the word 'solidarity'. the refugee emergency shows that the military and civil war in syria is not changing even after the security council's pronouncement on the elimination of chemical weapons and that the european union must take the lead in the political and diplomatic solution that it is asking others to do too. fortunately, our resolution now acknowledges that the refugee question is a european issue and not just a matter for the individual countries most directly affected. i think and appreciate barnier's proposal for a european humanitarian conference as an absolute necessity to talk not only with the institutions but also with ngos and civil society. but more politically, we also need a european council devoted to this issue, because it must cover both political and diplomatic action in syria and the consequences of the refugee emergency. i think we need to review dublin ii on the question of asylum, which does not provide for the possibility of applying for asylum status except in the countries where refugees arrive, and this creates enormous problems, as we have seen in italy. i am thinking of the temporary humanitarian residence permit, which, by the way, with the trafficking in persons directive we have extended to persons who are the victims of trafficking, and often these people are trafficked by criminals, and i am thinking of the application of the crime against humanity to these criminals as provided for by the international criminal court.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join in thanking commissioner barnier and the rapporteur and all the other members who have helped to make this text so positive. after months - the rapporteur recalled - and four years of hard work and lengthy negotiations, we can finally give the final go-ahead to a text that updates the current system of recognition of professional qualifications and guarantees more flexibility by enhancing the skills of professionals and reducing administrative costs. a legislative revision that will help to revive the internal market, providing new professional opportunities and meeting the needs of member states facing a growing shortage of skilled labour. the commissioner said that the professional card was an innovative means of promoting mobility and combating all forms of occupational restrictions and discrimination. ladies and gentlemen, the work that has been done - as we have said - has been excellent, but now the most delicate phases begin: the adoption of the measures and their implementation. i am glad that commissioner barnier has taken this initiative here, because only in this way will we be able to facilitate freedom of establishment, improve the provision of services, increase the flexibility of the labour market and allow for greater liberalisation. the recovery of europe is first and foremost a matter of modernising the labour market.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would not like this text to have the same problems as we had in the past with the services directive, since some points are still unclear and could penalise certain categories. there are in fact professions which are typical of a state and which should therefore be protected in a thorough manner. i am referring, for example, to the tourist guides who have a very important task in italy, namely to illustrate and make people discover a cultural, historical and landscape heritage unique in the world. i am a tuscan and my region is a true symbol of this richness. in recent months an association of tour operators has already tried to set up a kind of european card to circumvent the rules and bring pseudo-tourist guides around europe. we cannot sell our traditions and heritage, tourism is a great resource and must therefore be protected by offering the best possible service.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that at this point a vote by parliament on this motion for a resolution can only serve to improve our position vis-à-vis the commission and the council.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the legislative proposal as amended, i think it appropriate not to vote on the draft legislative resolution, but to refer the text of this important report back to committee, so that we can assess whether there is room for negotiations with the council in order to provide the citizens of the union with a new and more effective directive on environmental impact assessment as soon as possible. i therefore propose, pursuant to rule 57 (2), that the vote on the legislative resolution be postponed.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report as an act of good and practical policy: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union is a very good one. many reforms are announced and never implemented; the european parliament has maintained its commitment to bring transparency and democratic control to the relationship with the ecb, while at the same time giving it supervisory powers which have hitherto been reserved to the states, and has thus remedied one of the most obvious shortcomings in the decision-making process in which eurotower is a key player. i appreciate the pragmatic nature of the provisions, which are clear in the forecasts such as the biennial review or the multiplicity of instruments for comparison between the ecb and parliament, so as not to prejudice reasons of confidentiality where they apply. we are fortunate to have ended the season of open-mindedness and ideological certainty. from a political point of view, we must regard this as one of the stages in the restoration of democratic legitimacy, direct and visible, to the european institutions. today we have strengthened the ecb in this respect, as part of the european banking union project. the commission and the council will soon be able to take important steps along this road.
in writing. - this dossier, in view of its urgency, has been simplified. no one has objected to this interinstitutional agreement, because it is absolutely reasonable in its terms, in the powers given to the two parties, and in the controls on the work. i too believe that the powers of scrutiny granted to parliament are a great instrument for ensuring a monetary policy linked to the needs of the economy, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the ecb on cooperation on procedures relating to the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), because i believe that cooperation/surveillance between the european parliament and the ecb is of crucial importance for european monetary policy. the banking union for all euro area countries, based on the pillars of a single supervisory authority, a european resolution fund and a european deposit guarantee scheme, puts enormous decision-making power in the hands of the ecb over the entire eu monetary economy. i therefore believe that any major change in the supervisory role, including the transfer of powers to other institutions, must be accompanied by increased transparency and accountability to parliament, which must have full powers of inquiry and decision-making over the appointment and budgetary procedures. the creation of an interinstitutional agreement (iia) between parliament and the ecb will create parliamentary scrutiny of the ecb's supervisory tasks, through regular exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee, and through closed-door oral discussions with the bureau of the committee. finally, the draft iia provides for parliamentary scrutiny of the procedure for selecting the chairman of the supervisory board.
in writing. − as also stated in the treaty on european union, the functioning of the union is based on representative democracy. in this context, parliament - the only institution of the union to enjoy direct democratic investiture by its citizens - in exercising its powers of control over the implementation of the budget of the european union, guarantees the right of every taxpayer and of the public to be informed about the use of the financial resources made available to the political bodies of the union. in this sense, in the light of the second report of the committee on budgetary control, parliament cannot give its assent to the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2011, given the shortcomings still found in the reporting of the expenditure of these institutions. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the council and the european council. i hope, however, that in future more fruitful cooperation between the council and parliament on this subject will be established, thus sending a signal of transparency to the citizens and helping to bring them closer to the institutions of the european union.
in writing. − keeping taxpayers and public opinion informed of the use of public funds is one of the fundamental features of democracy that permits the stable functioning of the system. it is the duty of the secretary-general of the council to provide parliament’s committee on budgetary control with answers to written questions. however, parliament is still waiting for a reply from the council to the questions and the request for documents set out in its resolution of 10 may 2012. therefore, i had to vote in favour of this proposal refusing to grant discharge to the council in respect of the implementation of the european council’s and the council’s budget for the financial year 2011.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eia directive establishes the simple but fundamental principle of informed decision-making. before authorising the execution of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are legally obliged to obtain the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment. i agree with the general approach of the report and welcome the introduction of the new measures on conflict of interest and corrective action. however, as regards public involvement, i have serious doubts that the guarantees available to citizens are being respected. i think it would have been more useful to introduce time limits on the notification of the intention to start certain projects requiring eia assessment, as well as the definition of a body responsible for verifying compliance with this directive directly on national territory.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new environmental impact assessment directive requires that all projects likely to have an impact on the environment must be transparent and that the information needed to ensure maximum involvement of citizens in the decision-making process must be made available to everyone. among the priorities: soil protection, monitoring of cumulation with other projects or activities, mandatory eia for all projects with a significant impact on the environment, post-eia monitoring, but above all, certain timelines and clear procedures for public consultation and the population concerned. i understand the concerns expressed by many about possible negative repercussions and bureaucratic burdens, but it is still important to involve citizens as much as possible in the right to health and in environmental and landscape rights.
in writing. − directive 2011/92/eu concerns the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public/private projects and is a cornerstone of the european union's environmental policy. this directive has, over the years of its application, achieved some success in harmonising the principles of environmental assessment at european level, however, some weaknesses have been identified which have given rise to a significant number of legal disputes both at national level and before the court of justice of the eu. while i welcome the proposal in its broad outline, i do not think it is justified to involve the public in the preliminary stage of the environmental impact assessment procedure for projects covered by the directive. in my view, involving the public - as suggested by the rapporteur - creates a disproportionate burden on the contractor and slows down the decision-making process by the competent authorities. i also believe that the list of information required in the 'environmental report' has been arbitrarily extended: some forecasts, such as the requirement for the developer to present alternatives with a lower impact than the project, or the assessment of cumulative effects with other projects, are not relevant for the purpose of the impact assessment of the project and may result in an increase in the administrative burden for the developer of the project itself.
in writing. − i share the need to reformulate the framework for the environmental impact assessment procedure to adapt it to the new needs and political priorities of the union, but above all to give greater legal certainty to operators, given the numerous litigations that have been initiated before the court of justice. the amendments must, however, be designed to simplify the system further and certainly not to make the procedure more difficult. i believe that environmental impact assessment should be of fundamental importance in the decision-making process on public projects which may reduce green space, and that this priority should be given in a feasible, practical and not excessively costly way. that is why i do not share the rapporteur's approach on certain points.
in writing. - in the morning, the european parliament, in plenary, voted on a report by mr zanoni on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects. as a cornerstone of the union's environmental policy, the directive has played a crucial role in ensuring the environmental sustainability of the many projects within its scope over a period of some 30 years, by strongly affirming the principle of 'informed decision': the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an effect on the environment must be preceded by a careful analysis by the competent authorities to carry out an environmental impact assessment. i am very pleased with a resolution which improves the environmental audits to be carried out ex ante and ex post and strengthens the directive with due regard to the new challenges of biodiversity, resource efficiency and climate change.
in writing. − i have given a favourable opinion on the european parliament and council directive amending directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects (eia directive). this legislation plays a crucial role in the union's environmental policy, as weaknesses have been identified and have given rise to a significant number of legal disputes both at national level and before the court of justice of the eu. the eia directive establishes the simple but fundamental principle of 'informed decision', i.e. before authorising the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states have a legal obligation to obtain the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment. it is essential to ensure that the environmental report is verified by fully independent experts with appropriate technical expertise in environmental matters. achieving a true 'green economy' also means ensuring the sustainability of projects on our territory, and designing and implementing them in relation to their impact on resource efficiency, climate change and biodiversity loss, particularly with regard to major infrastructure projects.
in writing. - i supported the harbour report on the updating of european legislation on safety and environmental compatibility requirements for pleasure boats and watercraft. the text voted on is balanced and italian companies, which are among the leaders in the sector, will benefit greatly from it.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for his effective contribution to the systematization and integration of the commission's proposal. the theme is not secondary at all: it is estimated that some 70 million europeans spend their holidays on the coast each year, and at least one fifth of these use pleasure boats or jet skis at least occasionally for sport or leisure. the implications for employment and value of output in absolute terms are significant. i would also point out that italy is one of the leading countries in this field in the report on the socioeconomic impact annexed to the commission's communication. the effects on the tourist sector as a whole are more difficult to quantify, but nevertheless effective. the following assessments of emissions are also important: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the recommendations on regulatory alignment in the field of safety and licensing are also welcome: i would like to remind you that according to a eurosafe report from 2006, people who use a jet ski are almost nine times more likely to be involved in an accident than people who use other boats.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because it introduces stricter limits on the exhaust emissions and noise levels of recreational craft, thus bringing european legislation on the subject into line with the highest standards currently in force worldwide. the commission's proposal comes after extensive and in-depth consultations with the parties concerned, which have resulted in a near-unanimous agreement on the adaptation of the existing rules in this field. the attention paid to the requests of small and mediumsized enterprises - which represent about 95% of the sector - and the agreement reached with them are a guarantee that the new directive will not introduce new burdens or unnecessary bureaucratic constraints which could further aggravate the situation of a sector, such as the shipping sector, already badly affected by the economic crisis.
in writing. − the report deals with the technical aspect of updating the existing eu rules on safety requirements for recreational craft and watercraft. since the rules are intended to be adapted to international rules and the requirements concern important issues such as safety and the environment, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − recreational craft and personal watercraft, including motor boats, yachts and water scooters, have become more popular but existing eu rules and regulations on safety and environmental performance for these watercraft designed for private activities have yet to be modernised. this proposal attempts to align the rules, to clarify further their scope and the definitions within them and to make them more precise, as well as harmonising emission limits. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the european union's role in the world of sport. the amendments to the recreational craft legislation will significantly reduce the overall level of toxic emissions from petrol and diesel boats, while also giving manufacturers six years to comply with the new legislation. i therefore support today's initiative and hope that it will provide the basis for the adoption of common global emission standards.
in writing. − with this vote, the european parliament approves new rules for safer and greener recreational craft, reducing their emissions of polluting exhaust gases by 20%. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on pleasure craft and watercraft because this directive covers vessels between 2.5 and 24 metres in length, including pleasure craft (motor boats and sailing yachts, including those with an inboard or outboard engine) which require clear and specific regulation, as they are the most numerous classes of vessels that crowd our coasts and inland waterways. this regulation will give higher safety standards with fewer accidents, so it will give specific legislation to the maritime control authorities in charge. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the 'new' fuel cell, which is a new type of fuel, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the 'new' fuel cell. it will also encourage the shipping industry to follow a specific directive which will have to provide the ec certification framework for these standards, in line with the other global regulations already in place in the united states, canada and japan.
i voted in favour of mrs vergnaud's report, which i thank for the high quality of the work it has done. it is essential that european citizens enjoy the full right to practise their profession throughout the union. at the same time, member states must be able to assess the conditions under which a worker in another member state may pursue a given profession in their own territory. i am therefore very pleased that the adoption of a european professional card on a voluntary basis is supported, and i also think that it is appropriate and right that the scope of the directive should be extended to unpaid traineeships. this is an important incentive to europeanise these fundamental instruments, especially for young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while the goal of full professional mobility is still a long way off, today's vote has given rise to clearer and simpler rules for the recognition of professional qualifications. with the introduction of the european card, the union is accelerating the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, which is the key to enabling professionals to benefit from the benefits of the single market. i believe, mr president, that simplification is a good thing, but we must now revive the debate on the regulation of unrecognised professions, because there is a risk that the gap between professions organised in grades and orders and new professions structured in professional associations will widen. the new jobs are often the expression of local vocations and that is why they need wider protection, as is the case with the development and sustainability of our economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have always considered the mobility of professionals to be the central element of the single market in order to increase competitiveness and employment in the union. in europe we have a paradox: in some sectors, such as health care, there is a high demand for professionals, which is met by procedural delays that discourage their mobility. although a legislative framework has existed since the 1970s, the level of intra-european mobility has remained low in the face of the potential offered by the internal market. the text in the house today improves the current directive because the european professional card simplifies procedures. imi allows for immediate dialogue between competent authorities to verify whether a professional is qualified to practise the profession. this ensures safer mobility for healthcare professionals.
in writing. - mr president, the amendment of the directive on professional qualifications is an important but delicate step in the direction of the principle of freedom of movement for persons, workers and their professional qualifications. but at the same time, a whole series of specific activities must be guaranteed and protected, which unfortunately are not taken into account in the text. i am referring, for example, to the activity of tourist guides, which must be clearly distinguished and regulated differently from the role of the guide, as they are distinct categories in terms of competence, knowledge, linguistic ability and the related qualifications obtained. the professions which are specific to and regulated by each national law must also be protected. the principle of automatic recognition in the various systems cannot be reduced to a mere automatic action which harms the interests of several categories of professionals, since it would not take account of specific professional skills and knowledge. it is not just a question of protecting acquired skills and related occupational levels, but above all of avoiding the abuses and distortions that all too often occur and which can only harm the end users of professional performance.
in writing. - promoting the recognition of professions is certainly useful for greater mobility of workers in europe and can contribute, as a non-secondary element, to better match job demand and supply for profiles that often remain uncovered. language barriers remain, but greater mobility of workers within the union can foster a sense of european citizenship and contribute to economic recovery after years of crisis. of course, consumer protection must not be lost sight of and the protection of patients must be guaranteed in the case of the medical and nursing professions. the provisions against fraudsters and professionals who have committed offences in connection with the exercise of their profession in one member state and then move to another country must be fully implemented. i believe that these elements have been well addressed by the work of this parliament and i therefore wanted to give my support to this directive.
in writing. the vergnaud report deals with the review of the current legislation on the recognition of professional qualifications between member states. as the consequences of this text on certain categories of professions, in particular those regulated in some countries but not in others, have not been sufficiently clarified, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. - it could be bitterly commented that the crisis has done far more to increase labour mobility than all our debates. but this is a mobility that we do not like and that is marked by the actual imprisonment in stagnant economies of millions of young people who have not received or matured the cultural tools to seize the opportunities of the crisis and unsustainable rates of youth unemployment. for my country, as early as 2008, the oecd clearly indicated wide career spaces in some professions (for example, an annual shortfall of about 50 thousand nurses and medical providers), studies in 2010 indicate that less than 3% of health science graduates remain unemployed for more than ten months. qualified mobility is also growing slightly, but more because of the crisis than because of the incentives to enrich one's professional profile in a european dimension. some measures seem to me to address this shortcoming, from the alignment of apprenticeships to the membership programme to the voluntary card which will produce visible examples that will help break the spiral of shrinking opportunities. i consider the recommendations contained in the report to be appropriate and i vote in favour of them.
in writing. - i have followed very closely the work on this dossier at committee stage. although my views and those of the rapporteur have often been different, as have the views of our italian colleagues and those of colleagues from other countries within the same political group, i appreciated the ability to listen and compromise shown by mrs vergnaud and voted in favour of the amendments to the directive, except for the points relating to tourist guides, on which i abstained because their role in protecting the artistic and environmental heritage of italy was not taken into account. i have one more question: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the recognition of qualifications. in the run-up to education becoming an eu competence, i welcome the introduction of the european professional charter, the use of the internal market information system, and the other measures that are coming out of this long negotiation. i hope that the commission will ensure that the implementing details are workable and reasonable, in order to promote the mobility of workers and to achieve a genuine single market for human resources.
in writing. − under the directive approved by parliament, holders of professional qualifications - including doctors, pharmacists and architects - will be issued with a european electronic card to facilitate the exercise of the profession in any eu member state. the new rules will allow professionals wishing to speed up the recognition of their qualifications by another member state to opt for the european professional qualifications card which will be provided by the home member states, mainly for short periods of work abroad, and by the host member state in the event of a transfer of practice. this should speed up the time and process of recognition, as the holder of a vocational qualification could ask his home country to complete the preparatory stages instead of having to apply in the host country, as is currently the case. if a host member state fails to take a decision within the time limit set by the directive, the european professional card shall be deemed to have been issued and shall be sent automatically to the holder of a professional qualification. the directive aims to prevent health workers who have been convicted of a criminal offence or who have been subject to serious disciplinary action from being able to practise their profession in another member state.
in writing. − the report concerns the directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2005/36/ec on the recognition of professional qualifications, and the insertion of the text in the internal market information system (imi). a shared objective is the free movement of certain professions, so that young people can find recognition for their studies and skills in another member state. although there are positive aspects, it should be borne in mind that for certain professions it is desirable to reduce this possibility to a minimum, in order to avoid risks to the health or safety of citizens and not only: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the member states' cultural heritage. for the reasons stated above, i shall abstain.
in writing. − although a european legal framework has existed since the 1970s, professional mobility in europe has remained at a low level in the absence of simple, clear rules on recognising professional qualifications. eu citizens have been complaining about problems with securing recognition of their qualifications in order to work in another eu member state. urgent action by the legislature is needed to simplify the mandatory procedures whereby eu citizens are authorised to work in countries other than their own. the european professional card is therefore being introduced as a tool for recognition of professional qualifications in other member states. since the proposal promotes the free movement of labour and contributes to economic growth, competitiveness and employment in europe, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − professional mobility is an indispensable complement to the european strategy to promote competitiveness and employment. the commission's proposals, such as the professional card, which will ensure the mutual recognition of qualifications and qualifications in the member states, will improve the quality of information exchanged between member states and will therefore simplify procedures both for professionals and for the authorities involved. i am convinced that these measures will increase mutual trust and further stimulate integration between the member states, and i support mrs vergnaud's report, recalling that the free movement of persons is one of the cornerstones of the european construction.
in writing. − i gave a favourable opinion on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2005/36/ec on the recognition of professional qualifications and the regulation, because professional mobility is a key element of competitiveness and employment in europe and is an integral part of the development strategy in the european labour market. in the past, there have been many difficulties in getting qualifications recognised to practise the profession in another member state, because of the 800 regulated professions in the eu, only seven are recognised today. improving the recognition of qualifications must be based on modernisation through greater consultation and concertation between the competent authorities. the introduction of a voluntary professional card system must exist in parallel with the conventional system based on the imi network. the use of this procedure is intended to simplify the process for professionals as well as for the competent authorities by ensuring a high level of reliability of the information transmitted and better communication between states. apart from these practical aspects, it is worth pointing out that the european professional card is an important symbol of european citizenship.
in writing. - i voted for this agreement. the facilitation of visas is an important step towards facilitating trade and tourism relations, and it has nothing to do with immigration, which is a completely different matter. i also agree with the spirit of this measure, which is to follow the resolutions of the past years to bring armenia closer to the eu in a political and values sense.
in writing. - the report on the agreement between the eu and the republic of armenia deals with visa facilitation. given the non-problematic relations with the eu, and the need to strengthen neighbourhood policies for greater trade integration, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the government of the republic of armenia decided in january this year to exempt eu citizens from the visa requirement when visiting the country. for years now, in line with the development of the european neighbourhood and eastern partnership policy, work has been carried out to simplify the documentation and procedures for citizens of these countries to enter the european union. today we have voted on a text which simplifies the procedure for issuing short-stay visas to armenian citizens in the eu. the aim is to establish the rules for achieving full visa-free travel in the long term in line with the development of the partnership and cooperation agreements already launched in 1999.
in writing. − building partnerships with third countries, with the emphasis firmly on enlarging the area of democracy, the rule of law and good governance, is consistent with the eu’s long-term strategy. in the joint declaration on a mobility partnership between the eu and armenia, the parties decided to establish a mobility partnership to improve the management of legal and labour migration, including circular and temporary migration. facilitating the process of issuing visas benefits the citizens of both the eu and armenia. the armenian government has already abolished the visa obligation for eu citizens; the eu should in turn liberalise its visa regime and simplify the procedure. under the new rules, the decision on issuing a visa will be taken within 10 days, and in urgent cases two days or less, and the fee for processing visa applications by armenian citizens will be reduced to eur 35. the requirement to provide documents has been simplified for certain categories of person, in particular close relatives, members of official delegations, students, teachers, business people, scientists, etc., and there are also simplified criteria for issuing multiple-entry visas. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy has been a sign of great openness towards neighbouring countries, especially in the east of the eu. on this basis, i support the proposal to conclude the visa liberalisation agreement with armenia, considering that the latter has already abolished the visa requirement for european citizens since last january. i am satisfied with today's vote and i hope that international mobility will be made even easier.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of armenia on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, because, in line with the opinions of the commission and the council, armenia is now ready to conclude the visa liberalisation agreement. visa simplification can provide new impetus to cooperation, especially to the mobility of citizens, who will now be able to move more easily thanks to visa liberalisation, making procedures faster, cheaper and less bureaucratic. the conclusion of the agreement will facilitate in particular the mobility of citizens, which is an essential element of direct contacts between people. it will also lead the commission to step up its efforts to negotiate the same agreements with azerbaijan, the last country in the south caucasus region, and to invite the council, the commission and the european external action service to put a constant emphasis on this during the negotiations.
in writing. - in general, i am in favour of all those steps which allow the eu in general, and my country in particular, to get closer to third countries. the other side of the coin is compliance with the rules, coupled with mechanisms to restore broken legality and compensate for any damages. so if i voted in favour of visa facilitation for armenian citizens, i voted in favour of this other recommendation with the same intention: i think they are two sides of the same coin and i think they should go hand in hand. this one without the other shows closure, the other without this one shows naivety at best.
in writing. - the report on the agreement on the readmission of persons residing illegally is supported by me, given the positive relations with this country and its long-standing christian tradition. in addition, in view of the reciprocity of the agreement to make the procedures for safe return more rapid and effective, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − building partnerships with third countries, with the emphasis firmly on enlarging the area of democracy, the rule of law and good governance, is consistent with the eu’s long-term strategy. in the joint declaration on a mobility partnership between the eu and armenia, the parties decided to establish a mobility partnership to improve the management of legal and labour migration, including circular and temporary migration. readmission and visa liberalisation agreements are a very important step in mutual relations between armenia and the eu. the eu has already concluded readmission agreements with nine non-eu countries, and the armenian government has abolished the visa obligation for eu citizens. it is right that the eu should negotiate an agreement on the readmission of armenian citizens residing without authorisation, chiefly in order to facilitate mobility, which is essential in building people-to-people contacts. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of armenia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, as this is a commitment to be fulfilled through the development and establishment of partnerships with third countries, with particular emphasis on the enlargement of the area of democracy, the rule of law and good governance. the creation of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is a clear sign of openness towards the new neighbours, including those in the south caucasus, who have thus come much closer than before enlargement. this new enp action plan for armenia, in my view, will create new prospects for partnership, including the establishment of a dialogue on issues related to the movement of persons, including readmission and visa policy. this new framework will accelerate economic and political integration between the european union and armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. i hope that there will be strict and effective controls on measures to prevent and control illegal migration flows.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the instructions of my political group, i voted in favour of the objection tabled to the envi committee on so-called health claims, because i believe that the european commission proposal does not fully comply with the provisions of the 2006 framework regulation 1924 on the use of nutrition claims for foodstuffs. the regulation in fact establishes the need for scientific evidence of cause and effect for the authorisation of the use of a particular claim, rather than the regulatory obligation to comply with certain conditions of use. under the legislation currently in force, therefore, it is not the amount of sugar in a single foodstuff that counts but the total amount of sugar consumed by individuals on a daily basis.
in writing. − the ultimate objective of european legislation on nutrition claims on foodstuffs must always be to protect the health and well-being of the consumer: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in the light of this, i consider that the draft regulation (eu) no 432/2012 (on the establishment of a list of permitted health claims made on food other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health) deviates from the ultimate consumer protection objective and risks authorising misleading or unclear claims on food. i therefore voted in favour of parliament's resolution to block the adoption of this draft commission regulation.
in writing. − the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on nutrition and health claims made on foods established a list of permitted health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children’s development and health. i voted to oppose the commission’s draft regulation amending the original regulation, because it was inconsistent with the contents of the basic act.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft commission regulation (eu) no 432/2012 on the establishment of a list of permitted health claims made on food other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children's development and health, because the use of nutrition and health claims cannot be false, ambiguous or misleading, as the consumer must be fully informed in detail about the specific content of the food purchased. i believe that the current draft regulation is drafted in a clear and informative way.
in writing. − the european union's hygiene rules for food of animal origin, which are intended for food business operators, have over time created a regulatory framework for official controls which has progressively helped to rationalise and simplify this matter, while pursuing the objective of better regulation. many steps have been taken, but more can and must be done in this direction. the food sector needs an official control system for products of animal origin intended for human consumption which is increasingly proportionate, flexible and which, while aiming at increasing food safety and health for the citizens of the union, does not create overlapping standards or excessive organisational burdens. this is the thrust of the commission's proposal to reform the regulations currently in force. i therefore voted against the motion for a resolution which opposes the regulation.
in writing. - the commission's intention in the regulation was to introduce a new system of inspection of pigmeat, replacing the current practice of systematic incision and palpation of meat with visual inspection of all pigs post mortem, followed by the possible use of manual inspection and incisions where this is necessary. the european food safety authority has stressed in a recent opinion that the systematic incision and palpation of meat poses a threat of contamination of the meat itself and is not essential to identify real risks of pathogenic contamination: it is possible to identify any abnormalities effectively already at the stage of ante mortem inspection of the animals and by visual inspection. in addition, the official veterinarian will continue to have the possibility to intensify the checks if he deems it necessary. in the light of these considerations, the regulation proposed by the commission is a contribution to improving food safety and consumer protection.
in writing. the vote brings to life the reform of health checks on pigmeat, which will allow it to be fit for human consumption after visual inspection by the official veterinarian, without the systematic need for palpation or incision. this decision marks another important step forward in consumer protection in the sensitive area of food safety.
in writing. the commission proposal for a resolution on the veterinary inspection of pigmeat in slaughterhouses ignores the opinion of the european food safety authority (efsa) on the risk of microbiological contamination which excessive use of palpation and incision techniques on pig carcases may cause and its consequences for consumers. if approved, this proposal would defeat the adoption by the eu standing committee on the food chain and animal health of an innovative regulation introducing post-mortem visual inspection, a smarter standard that would improve food safety and consumer protection. for these reasons i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on foodstuffs and products of animal origin, because i believe that meat, milk, eggs, fishery products and honey are part of the daily diet and therefore need to be protected to a high degree in favour of consumers. without prejudice to the primary responsibility of operators in the sector, it is the responsibility of the official control bodies to verify that appropriate safety guarantees are met at all stages of the food chain. today, consumers demand 'safe and quality' food and the principle of 'food safety' is increasingly being incorporated into everyday life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, china is the world's third largest economy and the world's largest exporter, a strategic economic partner of the european union, so the agreement would be an important opportunity to revive the economy. in fact, european investors in china today face many, many barriers both before and after investing. on the contrary, chinese investors in europe have wide access. so the negotiations can only go ahead if the basic principles are respected: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, such as reciprocity, protection of intellectual property, protection of investments and investors, protection of the environment and workers' rights, and of course human rights. we must therefore make a strategic commitment to combating counterfeiting and smuggling effectively, but also to eliminating all existing asymmetries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i am in favour of free trade in all its forms, although i have one fundamental question: i am not sure that improving the conditions for investment in china is a good idea today, since european entrepreneurs do not necessarily have the resources to invest, and if they did i would like them to help employment in europe. however, the fact remains that to start bringing china to the negotiating table and to impose conditions that we have been applying for a long time is certainly good news. with the hope that the resources generated by these investments will also improve our situation.
in writing. − eu-china trade has grown rapidly over the past three decades, reaching a peak of 433.8 billion in total trade in 2012, but the imbalance in bilateral trade since 1997 has been in china's favour, with the deficit amounting to €146 billion in 2012, compared to €49 billion in 2000. we are therefore in favour of an agreement with china in the area of investment, but one which will help to correct the current imbalances. this implies that the agreement will have to take account of a number of essential elements, starting with the need for a sound and robust european industrial strategy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not a one-off objective but forms part of a successful industrial strategy. trade policy should therefore provide access to key and growing markets on a fair basis, ensuring a level playing field for our industry, in order to preserve jobs in the sector. the poor implementation of certain fundamental rights in the social, labour or environmental fields is also one of the causes of the current imbalance: trade must be a tool for improving human rights and standards of working conditions globally.
in writing. - i welcome the negotiations between the eu and china for a bilateral investment agreement. the european union must confront and open up to emerging economies, but above all ensure that access to these markets is guaranteed through local investment that is protected by well-defined agreements. i therefore believe it is important to deepen trade relations with china by improving the access of our small and mediumsized enterprises to the chinese market. but these investments must be protected by the same standards of transparency and equal treatment as chinese companies are protected when investing in eu countries. the aim is therefore to improve access to the european and chinese investment markets through investment liberalisation and investor-protective regulation.
in writing. − china has been an important trade partner for the eu. trade between the eu and china has been growing rapidly with a total figure for trade in 2012 of eur 433.8 billion. however, there have been significant trade barriers to the chinese market, such as certain forms of discrimination against foreign operators, as well as the complexity of the tariff structure and the technical barriers to trade, and eu has an annual deficit of eur 146 billion in bilateral trade as of 2012. it is highly important that the eu emphasise liberalisation of trade and the removal of barriers in its negotiations with china to ensure a more level playing field. a higher level of integration and technological exchange between the eu and the chinese economies which could lead to synergies should also be encouraged. therefore, i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-china negotiations for a bilateral investment agreement to strengthen economic relations between eu and china to our mutual benefit.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. i believe that this agreement, the first under the lisbon treaty to make investment a matter of the european union and to replace 26 different bilateral agreements, will certainly bring benefits by ensuring a better position for european companies in the chinese market and by allowing us to deal with issues such as joint ventures. eu member states are expected to authorise the opening of eu-china bilateral investment talks later this month by approving a negotiating mandate drawn up by the european commission. once an agreement is reached, parliament's approval will be required before it can enter into force.
in writing. the european parliament voted to strengthen the legislative framework for community industries operating in china. any investment agreement between the european union and china must ensure that our companies are better placed, and must exclude from any agreement all goods produced in chinese workplaces.
in writing. − china, despite rising labour costs, is now the world's second largest economy and one of the eu's main trading partners. however, the level of foreign direct investment is still low. an eu-china agreement in this area would lead to an improvement in economic relations between the two sides, creating a more favourable environment for political dialogue, which could help overcome the obstacles responsible for the current stalemate in their relations, such as the issue of human rights. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe it sets out the conditions necessary for the negotiation of such an agreement: the existence of a market access clause and a state-to-state and investor-to-state dispute settlement mechanism. only if these requirements are met will it be possible to guarantee transparency and fair competition between the two economies.
in writing. - free trade is a principle which i generally support. moreover, if a trade agreement with china is voted on in a plenary session, it is all the more appropriate that the same should be done with taiwan: it is a democratic, free country with which our trade is continuing to grow. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution and i hope that the commission will soon comply with our request to open negotiations to reach trade agreements which could help us to get out of the crisis.
in writing. - when we talk about taiwan, we are referring to a solid democracy and a robust and advanced economic system, which is still off the commission's radar in asia. the numbers speak for themselves: over eur 40 billion in 2011, an eight-fold increase over the past two decades. despite this, the reality is that global relations still lag behind their real and future potential and bilateral trade volumes lag behind those of other major trading partners. the commission is asked to follow the same direction as it is already taking with other partners who are pushing for the same thing, starting with china. i believe that an agreement would not only increase the volume of relations but would also be able to generate mutual benefits. i believe that there are all the conditions for us to work to promote the negotiations, so that we can put in place as soon as possible an instrument that can promote and encourage trade in goods and services, to create a stable and favourable investment environment, legal certainty, protection of investments and intellectual property rights and geographical indications.
in writing. − taiwan is the eu’s seventh largest trading partner in asia and its 23rd largest trading partner in the world, and the eu is currently the largest foreign investor in taiwan. even so, there is still potential for the eu and taiwan to promote a more open and fair trade partnership to create more wealth and well-being. it is of mutual benefit to both the eu and taiwan to further deepen their economic relations, which can be achieved by negotiating agreements on investment protection and market access to strengthen the legal certainty of investments and increase the volume of investment. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the european parliament voted today a resolution on new rules on flight and rest times for pilots and flight attendants. this text has raised serious concerns amongst the staff concerned, with regard to very sensitive issues such as flight safety, passenger safety and working hours. the european parliament's committee on transport has also recently expressed its opposition to the new rules proposed by the commission. to this end, several meetings have been organized in recent days between the various categories of workers and the european commission, and just this morning several workers' representatives reported that they had received adequate assurances from the commission on all the main issues and points of disagreement. i hope that the commission will honour its commitments in a concrete and effective way and protect the categories concerned. as a parliament we will be vigilant together with trade associations to prevent any violation of workers' rights and the safety rights of citizens.
in writing. − since i was elected to the european parliament, i have been on at least two flights a week, in all weather conditions and at all times. the crew have always made sure that the voyage proceeded in the best possible way, but if i have to choose, as in this case, between greater safety and better working conditions for the crew, i will certainly choose the former, for myself and for the others. that is why i voted against this resolution: i think that the commission proposal is absolutely reasonable and that it is not worth rejecting because it contains some very good elements which need to be worked on to achieve improvements. now that air travel is no longer a luxury because it is a business and leisure trip, it is essential to ensure that the best possible conditions exist ex ante in order to ensure ex post safety.
in writing. the european parliament's vote gives the green light to the commission's measures on flight time limits which aim to improve safety by ensuring that flight and cabin crew have adequate levels of alert during flight. the so-called 'fly time limitation' regulation will regulate flight and rest times for pilots and aircrew, and will finally harmonise european standards in this area and, above all, it has been established that charter and low-cost flights will necessarily have to apply stricter and more important safety standards. the new rules guarantee a maximum of 11 hours of flight time, compared with the current 11.45 hours. in addition, no air crew will be allowed to serve more than 18 hours and three pilots remain mandatory for trans-oceanic flights. flight time limits are introduced for 12 consecutive months and new rest periods are introduced to combat fatigue after long flights and heavy schedules. the standby time should not exceed 16 hours, including the standby itself and the subsequent flight. the new regulation, which will come into force on 1 january 2014, will make european flights even safer.
in writing. - i am very sorry that the strasbourg plenary today rejected this resolution, which is the result of a careful evaluation by the european parliament's committee on transport, which is responsible for this matter. the european commission's proposal, which aims to amend the rules laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures for flight operations, is in fact very flawed and at times even quite dangerous: the risks related to fatigue and lack of rest of the flight crew are not adequately taken into account. we cannot risk problems or accidents just because airlines want to save on costs by forcing pilots and flight attendants to work at times and at rates that are hard for the human body to tolerate. i hope that this proposal will be withdrawn and that the serious doubts raised by this measure will be taken into account, even among those who are involved in the work. before endangering passengers and crew, i think that much more thorough investigation should be done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we sounded the alarm this morning: the international community must take responsibility and manage the refugees of the conflict in syria in a unified and shared way. we are talking about over two and a half million people on the run, but this figure is set to increase dramatically: 76% of syrian refugees are women and children. we must stop further bloodshed and provide humanitarian aid to the syrian people and refugees by guaranteeing access to every area of conflict for international humanitarian organizations, the red cross. it is necessary, as i said earlier, that the international community share the burden of this tragic situation. we said it this morning: the council of ministers of the interior of yesterday is not enough, we need a european council on immigration policy and humanitarian emergency now.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, although i am still a little bitter about it. the european parliament recognizes the solidarity shown by the people of the ports of entry and their great hearts, it recognizes that there is a problem and that it is enormous, but in my view something is still missing. i believe that these resolutions have enormous political value but very little factual value. i think the people of lampedusa deserve much more than pat on the back and official messages of thanks. there is much, much more to be done here, and resolutions are not enough. i trust eurosur, in the hope that it will be effective, more than in resolutions which have no legislative value.
in writing. the european union must set out a policy and measures to be taken for the management of refugees following the conflict in syria. this is a problem, but above all a common responsibility, where all the member states must contribute, in compliance with the rules, both in the case of migratory flows linked to situations of instability in order to provide international protection, and in the case of humanitarian and food aid to people in need. the resolution just voted underlines the need for common involvement in welcoming the syrian population fleeing the conflict without turning its back on the mediterranean countries directly involved in solving and managing the problem. in addition, a common eu policy for the management of external borders must be created, as the geopolitical situation in the mediterranean requires us to pay greater attention to our common border to the south.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the measures taken by the eu and the member states to deal with the flow of refugees following the conflict in syria. since 2011, the humanitarian emergency caused by the ongoing conflict in syria has reached tragic proportions. according to unhcr estimates, the total number of refugees is over 2 million. what is even more alarming is that a significant number of these are children and women. the syrian crisis cannot be considered a purely regional problem. the right to asylum is a fundamental right and the european union faces a grave responsibility. this proposal highlights the need for effective community coordination to manage the entry of refugees into the member states through a solidarity system of burden sharing. it also stresses the importance of safeguarding human rights and providing adequate assistance during the settlement phase in host countries, encouraging the use of funds already allocated for this purpose and respecting the provisions of the ceas. i therefore regard this motion for a resolution as further proof of the european union's commitment to contribute to the international community's effort to address the syrian crisis.
in writing. − as of 20 september 2013, 1 929 227 syrian refugees had been registered in neighbouring countries and in north africa by the office of the un high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), while the total number of refugees, including unregistered ones, is estimated to be 2 102 582, of whom 76 % are women and children. in view of the severity of the current humanitarian crisis in syria, eu member states should be encouraged to address acute needs through resettlement in addition to existing national quotas, and through humanitarian admission. the eu has a duty to respond to this exceptional crisis by continuing to provide support to refugees and to countries neighbouring syria. therefore, i voted in favour of the resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the roma community of pisa in tuscany thanks you for giving them comfortable, fully optional villas with our money. the roma thank you because in those villas they could make a base of operations to plan the looting, to rob our houses. the villa's contents were recovered from theft: gold worth €300,000; in those villages, a girl was abused and mistreated because she was forced to marry a roma boy. just yesterday seven roma people living in those villas were arrested. is this the integration you profess? you have given villas to criminals, to the faces of all those people who do not know how to pay the mortgage, how to pay for their children's schooling, to the faces of those young couples who cannot afford to buy a house, to the faces of those elderly people who have no money to treat themselves, to those who have been waiting for years for a popular house! it's a disgrace!
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, no one can remain unmoved by the tragic events which took place last week off the coast of the italian island of lampedusa. this is not the first such incident but on this occasion the scale of the tragedy and the number of deaths and casualties have been particularly shocking. i would therefore like to begin by offering my deepest sympathy, on behalf of the council, to all the families of the victims and those affected by this tragic event. i would also like to underline the commitment and solidarity of the council as a whole to the italian authorities, and indeed to all those in the area who find themselves at the forefront of the huge challenge of coping with the arrival of many migrants, people who are simply seeking a better life for themselves and their families. the tiny island of lampedusa, with a population of only 6 000, has unwittingly found itself a port of entry for the whole of the european union. this places an immense burden on the authorities there. we cannot allow this further tragedy to pass by without taking resolute action. we owe it to all those who might be tempted to cross the mediterranean to the european union to ensure that similar tragedies are not allowed to happen again. it must never happen again. let us be clear that this is not simply a challenge for italy. it is a challenge for all of us. the implications of this tragedy are europe-wide. we need solutions at a european level and for the long term. that is why ministers meeting in luxembourg yesterday had an extensive discussion on the lampedusa tragedy. our italian colleague briefed his colleagues on the accident and the action taken by the italian authorities. commissioner malmström was also present at the meeting. on behalf of the presidency i would like to underline our thanks to her for her commitment to this issue and the very concrete proposals which she put forward to the council in response to this latest tragedy. even before last week’s accident, the council has been active in addressing the particular situation in the southern mediterranean. in april 2012 the council agreed on a strategic response to migratory pressure, which included a number of priority points for action. the council has also encouraged member states to support the activities of frontex in the region, with a particular focus on assisting italy to face the substantial increase in migration flows from north africa. yesterday the council acknowledged the need to intensify action in order to address these challenges. further efforts are required to step up cooperation with countries of origin and transit countries, in particular by strengthening existing frameworks, such as the dialogue on migration, mobility and security with third countries. we must also intensify the fight against traffickers in human beings and smugglers. eu agencies, such as the european asylum support office and frontex, have a particular role to play in this area. frontex in particular, with its focus on the surveillance of the eu external borders, will be key. frontex operations have provided for the rescue of many people at sea and assisted those member states which are most exposed to migratory flows and pressures. its capacities and resources must be reinforced. legislative frameworks such as eurosur, on which this house will vote tomorrow, will also make an important contribution to help us strengthen control in the mediterranean sea. it will provide a common framework for increased cooperation between border guards, police, customs, coastguards and navies. the council is grateful for the good cooperation it has with parliament and the commission on this dossier, which will deliver very practical results and help avoid similar tragedies in the future. following discussion in yesterday’s council, the commission has taken up a proposal from italy to convene a taskforce to identify whether we can use the wide range of tools at our disposal in a more effective way. a wide range of actions and activities are already being deployed to try to ensure that a tragedy such as we witnessed last week cannot happen again. more can always be done, and more should be done, as ministers have acknowledged. that is why we have called for an intensification of our work in this area and that is why we will continue to work tirelessly, together with the commission, to strengthen cooperation at a european level to assist those member states who are at the forefront of the challenge of migration from the south.
member of the commission. − mr president, representative of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, i have just come back from lampedusa, and i do not know if i can convey to you the feeling of sorrow and great despair standing there in front of 280 coffins containing corpses which had been taken from the sea. at the front there were ten small coffins for the children – the babies – with teddy bears on the coffins. it was a very strong feeling standing there, and it illustrates the tragedy in a horrible way. i was informed about the tragedy very early on thursday morning. i spoke to minister alfano, he invited me to lampedusa and i was there today with minister alfano of italy, prime minister letta and also president barroso. we were there to express our solidarity with the victims and their families, but also our gratitude to all those people who have worked very hard to try to save those people who can be saved, and to the people of lampedusa. we were also there to say that they are not alone: that lampedusa is europe, and that we must do everything we can to prevent this from happening again, because there is a danger that it will happen again. as long as there are dictatorships, rogue regimes, civil wars and poverty in africa and the middle east, people will – despite knowing all the dangers – try to come to europe in search of a better life. we must do a variety of things, in the short, medium and long term. of course, immediately we are looking, together with the italian authorities, at how we can support them on a humanitarian basis, helping also to refurbish their reception centres and looking at their needs. that is what we discussed with the italian authorities today. but we must also do more to make sure that we can detect those ships at a very early stage. i proposed to the council of ministers in luxembourg yesterday that we set up a joint, vast frontex operation instead of the small ones we have today – an operation that would go from coast to coast, from spain to cyprus, and which would be a save-and-rescue operation so that we can, at best, prevent these tragedies from happening again. the mediterranean is a very big sea, but we can do more here. this will demand political support and, of course, resources. we will, in the framework of the task force that we set up yesterday and that the presidency referred to, look at these and other possible options. we also need to reinforce even further our cooperation with third countries. we have a mobility pact now with morocco, and we are having quite advanced talks with tunisia. these are countries which can do more as transit countries in terms of setting up their own reception systems and taking care of refugees and migrants, and which also can help in the fight against those ruthless networks that use people’s vulnerability and earn a lot of money in order to put them on totally unsuitable ships. here we must do more. in a moment we will discuss eurosur (the european external border surveillance system). this can also be an important tool to connect with and detect even very small vessels, thereby saving lives. we must also look at the possibilities for entering europe legally. why do people take these journeys? because it is basically impossible to come to europe legally today. we must make sure that more countries work with the united nations to take resettlement – only a few countries do that today, working with unhcr in conflicts such as syria and offering places for resettlement so that these people can be brought safely to europe. we must also start to examine other ways, for example humanitarian visas. these are things we need to explore and to look at. we have this task force that we set up. we will look at the variety of different tools that are at our disposal today and tomorrow, not only for italy but also for the whole mediterranean, and in a broader perspective in europe. maybe this is the wake-up call that we need in order to change our policies in the european union. it is important that the very powerful words that i have heard conveyed to italy in recent days – words of solidarity – do not remain merely words but are turned into concrete actions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, lithuanian presidency, mrs malmström has just returned from lampedusa where she said this she has touched, together with barroso and the italian authorities, the exceptional nature of a situation which we should all put an end to together. death, shock, grief are mixed with the anxiety of concrete responses, wanted by the population of those territories as well as by the refugees, by the families of the victims. in the course of our meetings, mrs malmström, we have discussed on several occasions the need for more resources, more energy and more resources, not only for italy but for all the countries bordering on the mediterranean which are subject to these uncontrolled phenomena of irregular immigration. of course, there is an issue concerning the right of asylum, the protection of the dignity and decency of persons. we need compensatory measures that apply to lampedusa, but that apply to all the affected centres. the 30 million euros promised today by mr barroso are a partial answer - i dare say - just as the task force for a safe rescue plan to be entrusted to frontex is a meaningful answer, but in our view it is still a partial answer, probably inadequate. if it is true, as it is true, madam commissioner, that the hermes mission has had to be refinanced today by eur 2 million. if it is true, as it is true that only 10 member states are participating responsibly in supporting this operation, then there is no solidarity! what we are talking about, your effort is genuine and you are able to listen to all of us, but we need a resettlement policy, a redistribution of burdens, refugees after the first reception, to keep economic migrants clearly separated from refugees who are entitled to asylum, we need a common european approach, mutual support. secondly, i would like to ask the council to be less distant - it is geographically more distant from sicily, from italy - to be more present and more concrete. i would ask my colleagues, mr president, to look at this matter without the logic of national governments, otherwise europe will go nowhere.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to take the floor again immediately, but i would like to say to mrs guillaume that what she is saying, that there is no evidence of a crime being committed against seamen on humanitarian aid vessels, is not true. for more than a year now, it has been assumed that humanitarian aid does not determine the punishment, and we must make this clear, otherwise we will not have the real and supportive approach that we should have.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, lithuanian presidency, i feel as if i were going back in time, exactly to september 2009, when i denounced in this very chamber what had happened about 15 days ago, on 30 september 2009, yet another tragedy in the mediterranean: a boat with 75 people on board, drifting, sinking, 75 dead, the silence of all the authorities, the silence of italy, the silence of the european union and dead, dead and over dead. i do not want this discussion to be controversial, but we must recognize the responsibilities: the responsibility for this lies with the member states, with italy and with the european union. italy was not left alone, but lampedusa and the people of lampedusa were left alone. i believe that italian legislators should learn from the fishermen of lampedusa and from all the people of lampedusa. first of all, amendment of the dublin convention. that is the first fact. i have followed what has happened today, commissioner malmström, and i have seen how you have also been challenged. i am sorry that you have been challenged, you are quite present in these matters, but we must also understand what they are experiencing in lampedusa. i read the statements letta made: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one other thing. the member states have been and are guilty of not wanting to take responsibility for certain events. frontex decided to extend the mission to continue until november but let's face it frontex this year had yet another reduction in its budget, yet today the deputy director and the director decided to implement with another two million that no one knows where they found to allow hermes to go ahead. we, on the other hand, will approve eurosur tomorrow, easo has suffered yet another budget cut. but are we talking about immigrants? i'm not going. we are talking about our brothers, crammed in the camps, sleeping when they have the chance on rotten mattresses, a bathroom for 200 people, women and children in inhumane conditions and they do not stay in that reception center in lampedusa because of that i am talking for 35 days as the law stipulates, but often for very long months! this may be a bargain, a bargain for everyone, a bargain even for those who run that centre, but it is a real torture for the migrants who experience it on their own. commissioner, you may not know this, but when you left lampedusa, divers found the body of a woman who had just given birth on board and still had her umbilical cord and that baby was still attached to her. we must all remember these realities because we are all responsible! the bossi-fini law must be changed, it must be changed in real terms, and we all have responsibilities here and if we do not take a serious approach we will continue to be responsible!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the new tragedy announced in lampedusa, europe must finally understand the difference between desperate migrants and refugees, who are fleeing from countries at war, from bloodthirsty tyrants and from murderous fundamentalism. refugees from somalia, eritrea, syria, they're not fleeing to improve their living conditions, but to continue living. the political inefficiency which the union has shown in dealing with the eritrean and somalian situation, which has been dragging on for years with the escalation of oppression in eritrea and terrorism in somalia, which is spreading to other african countries, is equal to the inability shown in managing immigration and in helping the riparian countries which must all be called upon to accept refugees, who will then have to be hosted in all the countries of the union. lampedusa and its inhabitants have shown a humanity and respect for life that surpasses that of many institutional positions, because we have been talking about lampedusa and immigration in this house for years! lampedusa must not only have solidarity in words but also concrete help, because the island is suffering along with the refugees! we call on the council to strengthen existing measures by frontex, to put in place new ones and to ask the member states to increase the penalties for human traffickers and divers because they are guilty of massacres. mourning for the dead must be followed by measures for the living, so that they remain alive.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, while we await concrete proposals, which i have not seen at the moment, we have put forward a proposal as a group for tomorrow in the resolution on eurosur, in which we ask that the migrants arriving in italy and elsewhere be distributed among the 28 countries. so let us see whether the optimism i feel in this house tomorrow will be translated into something concrete. because in words we are all good and good, but then i see that in reality there are difficulties. i am also surprised that there is sometimes criticism of the italian law, because i refer to paragraph 2, article 12, which states that 'it is not a crime to provide relief and humanitarian assistance in italy to foreigners in need'. but perhaps we should apply ourselves as other countries have done - also on the southern coast of europe - some shoot when migrants arrive, others - as happened this summer - do not welcome the boats, which italy then generously adapts to take. or, to quote a left-wing newspaper: "at the brenner border between italy and austria, 900 people have been turned away in the last three months, including pregnant women". obviously italian law is not as bad as other laws probably are, so i don't see all this responsibility on italy's part. one other thing. but we also have to be realistic about immigration and the issue of migrants and refugees, because at a time when italy has 40% youth unemployment, i ask myself, what do we let these people do? if they can't work, can they integrate? and if they don't work, who do they prey on? the reality, commissioner, is that those who want uncontrolled immigration are a great ally of those who want human trafficking and profit from it and from organized crime. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that people who do not work and therefore do not integrate are victims of organised crime, live by expedients and unfortunately create a climate of insecurity throughout the country, to the detriment of honest people in particular and even immigrants who regularly pay taxes and work. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask mr fontana if he was aware that in italian law - and that is why there is a very strong proposal to repeal that part - the bossi-fini law made by the berlusconi government provides that a clandestine is guilty of a crime, that is, clandestinity has become a crime, to the point that the survivors of this tragedy are being investigated. you know that, i think!
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i do not see the same controversy about the law as in france, germany and spain. so i think that this is not just an italian problem, but i think that this could be a deterrent, because if we let these boats go, the danger is what happens in lampedusa, if we let them understand that they can only enter our country as regulars, then, at that point, there will be no more such trips.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after so much pain and so much work to help survivors and recover victims, there was anger today in lampedusa. an island that still feels abandoned in front of those 280 coffins, some white with the teddy bears - commissioner malmström reminded us - the coffins of the children. it is very important that we have gone and i want to thank you from the bottom of my heart, commissioner malmström, it was important, i think, to listen to and understand that anger. president barroso was right to say that this is a problem for the whole of europe, that the european union stands with the people of lampedusa. these are important words, and we appreciate them, and we also appreciated what you said today, 'solidarity with italy will be translated into concrete action'. these words carry weight, these words will be measured by deeds. be careful then! italy and the other countries bordering the mediterranean now expect concrete answers, immediately or at least within a reasonable time. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to achieve a common approach to the problem of the situation in the former yugoslavia. firstly, mr le pen said: 'we must stop these flows' - i conclude, mr president - 'do we want to do as we did two years ago? when france closed its borders and the problem of the war in libya, was the refugee problem only an italian problem? i think not! 2° to review the rules of first entry, because in fact asylum applications are compulsorily the responsibility of the border states alone, for the others asylum is only optional. i really do, mr president, and i am thinking of frontex. it is not working as it is, the operational plan must be reviewed and the available resources better spent, 40% of the budget for administrative expenditure is too much.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, dear minister, enough is enough. i no longer want to dress in mourning, i no longer want to see coffins of unknown and innocent women and children who have come to italy only to die. people fleeing war or poverty should be helped, but in a serious way and not just by giving a few pennies to the country closest to them and having to pay for it: italy is the best. these refugees are becoming european citizens by death rather than by birth, as is the case in all other civilised countries. as president barroso said today, 'aid to italy must be practical'. it is therefore necessary to send ships under the coast of those countries to take in the migrants and not just to give enormous european contributions to those african countries which are primarily responsible for these migrations. this money is often lost in the floodgates of corruption, as a recent judgment of the european court of auditors has shown, which has made it known that of the 5 billion euros given to egypt, one billion went to corruption, ladies and gentlemen! the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. now, that's enough!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the shame of lampedusa is plain to see and it is time for everyone to do his part. we are accustomed as a parliament to confronting the commission, but the council must listen more to parliament and the commission at this time and, for example, not shy away from asking for funds, because there is a budgetary problem which we must absolutely put as one of the priorities to solve this emergency. we need to strengthen frontex and not degrade it, we need to help the countries which are the outposts of immigration and which have a duty of course to welcome them. we need to urge the member states - for example - to implement the new rules on asylum which were voted by this parliament on 12 june this year. we need funding and we also need to ensure that the states - and this is an appeal to the council - make an effort to urge countries to change, for example in italy, to change the bossi-fini law which provides, among other things, that the migrants who survive receive, as has happened in these days - excuse me, mr president - a guarantee notice for the crime of illegal immigration and that the rescuers risk being investigated for aiding and abetting. the council cannot ignore this! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask mr sassoli whether he believes that the problem of the overall strategy on migration in europe is now being dealt with by a comprehensive strategy which the commission and the council must pursue, or whether this is not happening at all. for example, in italy, because of legislation which would not allow a concrete approach to a problem which must be shared and tackled in solidarity. i wanted to remind mr sassoli, who was not present, that the regulatory reference he made no longer exists; the commission has been working on this for a year now, and it is a moment of appreciation for the generosity of those who use this activity to help desperate refugees in need of protection.
answer to a blue-card question. i would remind you, madam president, that in recent days the survivors have received a guarantee notice, and i believe that this is precisely why we must call on everyone to do their duty: the commission, the council, parliament, but also the states, which must put themselves in a position to have european standards from which italy cannot of course escape. the bossi-fini law is a law that must be changed quickly! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since the crime of illegal immigration is not typical of italy but also of the united kingdom, france and germany, mr sassoli knows that the inclusion in the register of suspects, the information on the basis of a guarantee, is not a conviction but simply the start of a procedure which may even end in expulsion if these people are found to be deserving of asylum.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no! i'm sorry, mr. speroni, but that's like saying you're sending a bail notice so you can investigate. in this case, it is the people who have suffered, who have been victims, who have been in very serious difficulties, who have even survived a tragedy, such as that of lampedusa. in this case the judiciary does not need to send a guarantee notice to the survivor to open an investigation and then we need to urge a european spirit, a spirit of welcome, a spirit that somehow puts us in the position to welcome also in the position to prosecute crimes. but crimes must be prosecuted alongside the people who commit crimes, and in that case we are only talking about victims.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid giving rise to a repetition of painful tragedies such as that of lampedusa, we must avoid proposing - as the italian minister kyenge does - favourable regulations for those who enter, those who try to enter or those who are already legally present on the territory of the member states, thus favouring trafficking in human beings. the existing rules should be strictly enforced. what is in fact an invasion must be countered from the places of origin and embarkation, either by helping to improve the living conditions in the countries of origin or by hindering the crossing. the european union is called upon to make a greater effort, to provide more resources and financing and also to change the rules, starting with the dublin regulation, without, however, being under the illusion that the member states are really making these changes because without their consent nothing can change. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that anyone who enters the territory of a state, enters another's house without being authorized, without having permission, is an invader. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too wonder what kind of invasion you are talking about and i would like you to explain to me, in particular, what reforms with regard to minister kyenge mr speroni is referring to and, above all, whether you are aware that italy has ratified the geneva convention, which is based on the principle of non-refoulement. so, obviously, maybe he was born in the wrong place!
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that is almost certain, but i did not choose it. i meant that as far as the invasion well! it is not only done with tanks, it is not only done with troops, but it is also done simply by entering a territory without the consent of those who are the legitimate owners of that territory. this definition of invasion seems logical to me, since the rules - the geneva convention and the dublin regulation - provide for non-refoulement for refugees, but it remains to be seen whether all those who enter without consent are refugees or belong to another category.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, even the harshest, most painful, strongest words sound tired and worn out in the face of yet another tragedy in lampedusa. too many have died in these years, in that arm of the sea that so cruelly separates dream from nightmare, not to feel the weight of impotence and hypocrisy. in this tragedy we can see that this europe, that is to say, the europe which gives priority to its own fears, its own national egoism, which reduces common funding, the europe which we have seen here too, in the words of, for example, marine le pen, that this europe is not up to its task and the needs of this time. the tragedy of lampedusa is proof that there is too little europe today, not too much europe! we have a common currency but we are not able to have a common policy on a gigantic phenomenon like immigration. it is true that we must seriously move from words to deeds, in italy as in europe. in italy, by changing the bossi-fini law immediately, in europe, by immediately establishing, for example, a humanitarian corridor, by promoting joint border patrols, by strengthening frontex, by developing cooperation with all the countries of the maghreb and all of africa. to give up this is to give up giving europe a future in the first place.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after the tragedy of lampedusa, italy needs everything but façade solidarity. today, president barroso, who was with you in lampedusa, announced an additional €30 million in aid to italy. on 3 october you recalled that in 2013 europe had allocated €137 million and said you were ready to look at other forms of assistance and support. i tell you, commissioner, italy is not asking for alms, but for sharing the responsibility of solidarity. it is not possible for the country of first arrival to be responsible for the reception, care and maintenance of asylum seekers in decent conditions for 12 months and also for their integration into the labour market. all this, madam commissioner, is provided for in a regulation - the dublin regulation - which was adopted and revised not more than three months ago and which assigns full responsibility to the country of first entry, since this regulation has not incorporated into its body the principle of border sharing which we italians were calling for, that is, the sharing of a border. if you really want to express solidarity with what happened in lampedusa, commissioner, then do what i am doing here: tear up the dublin regulation, which is the act of selfishness by which europe has denied responsibility, and say that it is committed to changing it. yesterday, in the council of ministers of the interior, italy asked for a change in the regulation 24 out of 28 countries said no! it is not pietistic solidarity that italy wants but only concrete gestures! commissioner, tear up this regulation, as i did, in memory of the victims of lampedusa and as a serious act of solidarity and sharing towards italy which has been dealing with this problem alone for too long!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility to banish gossip and to give answers to lampedusa and sicily, to the children, women and men who are looking for hope and instead find death. the justice and home affairs council met in luxembourg yesterday, and a few hours ago - as we know - the president and the commissioner were in lampedusa. timid steps have been taken towards strengthening european responsibility for the surveillance of the maritime frontier, which is not only italy's but europe's own frontier. we need more than sympathy and solidarity! we want the commission to come forward as soon as possible with legislative proposals to change the powers of the frontex agency and to review the cuts to its budget, to come forward with new rules for asylum seekers and to change the bossi-fini directive in italy by amending directive 55 of 2001. the commission must not lose sight of the fact that its mandate is coming to an end. the paramilitary approach of mrs le pen is inhuman because she considers it irrelevant that immigrants are fleeing torture, a terrible war, persecution. to those colleagues who will be called here in two weeks' time to debate and vote on the matter - who represent countries which oppose such steps forward - i would remind you that those lives broken cry out not only to the conscience but above all to the responsibility of each one of us!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, whom i appreciate for what she has said and for her participation, but who, of course, must be able to move forward with the proposals, and i believe that the council, especially at the next meeting on 24 december, as requested by the italian president, mr letta, must certainly deal with this issue and must put it on the agenda. the tragedy of lampedusa - he said - is a european tragedy, but they must be aware of this, because the exhausted population of lampedusa, the survivors - who, unfortunately, as mr sassoli said, are now being investigated by italian law - have not perceived the european dimension, and above all we must honour these 300 dead, most of whom are women, children and very young people. it is necessary to show that europe is really founded on solidarity, on human rights, on a common immigration policy which does not only speak of denying entry, but of finding legal forms of entry into europe that are much more open and much more comprehensible. in italy we must abolish the crime of hiding, apply the directive on temporary humanitarian protection with obligatory solidarity between the states, transpose the directive on asylum, but europe must review dublin ii, and above all promote bilateral agreements such as the one with morocco and the countries of north africa.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank you all for this very important debate. we are all politicians in here. we know that words matter. now let me be very clear on this. those people who died outside lampedusa were not illegal immigrants. they were refugees. they were exercising a fundamental, internationally recognised right, regulated by european law, to ask for political asylum. this is a huge difference. words matter and we should be very careful how we use those words. a second thing is that it is not fair to say that europe has not done anything for years in this situation. if we look back, a couple of years ago lots of things were different. on syria, lots of you spoke about the importance of helping people on the spot. yes. the european union is by far the biggest donor in syria helping to alleviate the horrible humanitarian situation in the camps, where a vast majority of the refugees still are. only a small fraction have arrived in europe. also, we have agreed very recently on something we have been discussing for 15 years, a common european asylum system. when this is in place – it is not there yet, i agree with you, ms harms – it means that 28 countries will have the possibility and the capacity to receive asylum seekers from around the world in a dignified manner. that means that we can share the responsibility in a better way. today five countries take 70 % of the refugees coming in. and that is not italy, it is not malta, among the first five. it is germany, france, sweden, the uk and belgium. they take 70 % of the asylum seekers, added of course to what austria, italy, malta and others do, but we still have a large group of member states who could do much more. also, let me say that we have elaborated a much closer cooperation with third countries on the other side of the mediterranean. we have very advanced talks with morocco, with tunisia, in order to try and help these countries to establish their own system of reception and migration and asylum reception, and also to make them partners when we talk about fighting those trafficking gangs that we have referred to. other countries are, of course, also key in this, but it is very difficult to cooperate with a country like libya, which is so weak. we also have frontex doing a lot of things. frontex is actually saving lives every week. i do not accept what you say when you accuse frontex of pushbacks. frontex has nothing to do with pushbacks. show me one example and i promise i will take that to court immediately. we have new regulations saying that anything where frontex is involved – or frontex staff, because they are from the member states – if there is any sign of pushbacks or non-refoulement violation, that operation will immediately stop. it will be punished. there will be no money and we will take the consequences. and we have, although it is not enough, more countries engaging with unhcr on resettlement. now this is far from enough, and that is why the commission proposed yesterday to do much more. that is why we proposed a big search and rescue operation in the mediterranean. yes, it will cost money, and it is a test of member states whether they will give that money to us, so that we can do that, give the necessary resources, money and equipment. we need much more when it comes to resettlement. more countries should engage with the unhcr on resettlement and we do need – i have said that many times – we do need to open more legal ways of coming to europe, to avoid these disasters. we are right now examining the possibilities of issuing humanitarian visas and doing more in this area. i think you know that the commission cannot do everything you ask for. i thank you for your immense trust in what the commission can do in this area. we are talking about the most sensitive political subject in many countries and the interventions here today show how controversial this issue is. you know that the commission fought with you for a much more flexible dublin proposal. that was voted down by a huge majority of member states, 25 i think, or maybe 26. we did not succeed in that. we have some progress on the new dublin, but the commission, and you, asked for more. you know very well that i cannot propose an obligatory mechanism for responsibility sharing. that has been discussed many times. twenty-five countries are against. we cannot force them to do it. we can only ask for assistance, we can push, we can organise a relocation forum for malta, which we did. the appetite for relocation is very meagre. the commission can only provide funds. we can push. we can help, but we cannot force the member states to relocate either from italy or from malta, even though we are calling for other countries to do this. we have also asked for help for other countries which have not been mentioned here today: bulgaria and cyprus are under large difficulties. so we can only help push, with your help as well, and ask member states, so that maybe this terrible catastrophe that we saw last thursday morning can be a wake-up call for a new approach to migration, a new approach based on more openness and more european solidarity. you can count on the commission to do its utmost here and i count on your support as well.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, indeed that was a very important debate. no one can doubt the feelings of all those present at the recent tragic events of last week. this is shared by the council. we agree that we have a moral responsibility to do all we can to ensure that such a terrible incident does not happen again. the extraordinary migratory pressures in the southern mediterranean constitute a shared european challenge that requires solutions at a european level. we cannot expect those member states which are most directly affected to shoulder the burden alone. therefore we will, of course, continue to consider this issue as a shared responsibility. i have already set out numerous areas where the council is taking action, in close cooperation, of course, with the commission. but we accept that our action needs to be intensified and the tools available to us must be used to their full potential. i would like to highlight the particular importance of the eurosur system, which will provide information in real time on the situation at external borders, thereby enabling enhanced cooperation between the relevant agencies. this is due to be voted on by this house tomorrow and should enter into force in december. eurosur already made a difference last week in lampedusa. cooperation with third countries also has to be further developed, as was stressed by many of you. the activities of frontex have been strengthened but, clearly, the events of last week show that we should never be complacent and there will always be more that we can do. yes, i echo all those who spoke up for more solidarity, for more european solidarity. speaking concretely, in the frontex regulation there are specific provisions allowing the agency to assist member states in circumstances requiring increased technical and operational assistance at external borders, taking into account that some situations may involve humanitarian emergencies and rescue at sea. as part of the hermes operation, all the assets present in lampedusa were immediately sent to the place where the accident occurred. frontex is cofinancing two coast patrol vessels in lampedusa which took part in the search and rescue operation. additionally, frontex cofinanced fixed-wing aircraft from the italian coastguard sent to the area to provide aerial support to the search and rescue operation. following the dramatic accident near lampedusa, frontex sent out a call to see which other member states will be able to participate with possible reinforcement. work is in progress in frontex in order to prioritise its activities and release additional funds for sea operations in the mediterranean. a significant number of you mentioned the need for a comprehensive migration and asylum policy in the eu. reacting to this i would like to express hope that the commission-led task force agreed on yesterday will effectively address in a comprehensive way the most urgent migration policy issues that you have raised, and come up with proposals and next steps to be taken by eu member states and institutions. let me close by assuring you that the presidency will work very closely with the commission to maintain a focus on this issue. especially bearing in mind what mr coelho was saying, this is what features very high on this presidency’s priorities list. we will not cease in our determination to put in place all those tools and means to ensure that the tragic events of last week are never repeated.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. it is completely unnecessary for europe to cry crocodile tears today. where has she been all these years, when the landings on the italian coast have continued unabated? it has always failed, leaving italy to face a continuing emergency. our european partners have in some cases even mocked and criticized us, claiming our inability to manage what were, for them, normal migratory flows. it's easy and convenient to criticize without intervening: as it so often happens, it took a tragedy, and hundreds of deaths, to open the eyes of someone who pretended not to see. the asylum system needs to be changed, because the first-come, first-served mechanism doesn't work: it is obvious that migrants in the mediterranean will always arrive on the italian, greek or spanish coasts. the other european countries do not want them, and they always send them back if they cross their borders. either we change this system and this mentality, or we can safely say that europe is just bureaucracy and rules, completely lacking the spirit of solidarity and sharing that it was born with.
the agenda includes the report by jan mulder, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european border surveillance system (eurosur) (com (2011) 0873 - c7-0506/2011 - 2011/0427 (cod)) (a7-0232/2013).
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and also to congratulate him on his birthday for the way he conducted the negotiations and the work in committee, for his sensitivity and his ability to negotiate. these days i was thinking if eurosur had already been operational if the lampedusa tragedy could somehow have been avoided. i don't know if that would have been possible, but it certainly would have been easier to avoid the drama. this is because eurosur envisages the use of precise technologies and satellites to locate vessels, monitor foreign ports, boarding points, that is to say, to know when the vessels leave so that they can be monitored along the way. because, with eurosur, we wanted to give more weight to the role of collaboration and cooperation with border countries, we know that these are important experiences. because, commissioner, i think that our tunisian friends need to be told something. because the boatman from lampedusa was already arrested by the italian authorities and had already been handed over to the tunisian authorities, and i do not think that this aspect was given much consideration by our tunisian friends. because, in the end, thanks to eurosur, there will also be a level of attention and impact on the most sensitive borders and so, finally, the borders will no longer be just national but will be the doors to europe. that is what i wanted to stress, commissioner. i do not know whether you told our citizens today in lampedusa that they are not in such a bad situation because there are many other european countries which have more immigrants and asylum seekers than italy. i think you have to look beyond the numbers, you have to look at the drama, the ability to land. i have not seen 60/100/150 people disembarking on other northern coastlines every day with all the procedures that have to be put in place. today, you have heard the needs of the citizens of lampedusa; we are not yet turning these citizens away from the european institutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i imagine that mrs malmström is very tired after a long journey, a long day. we acknowledge your generosity and commitment. we needed eurosur, of course, the operational arm of frontex, and we trust that in this respect there is great responsibility and great solidarity on the part of the member states, because eurosur needed coordination with the member states and will need means, energy and resources. we have a duty to combat illegal immigration and human trafficking. the mulder report - to which i also wish a very happy birthday - is well received, and the support of the satellite agency and europol in this context is well received. today, we must better calibrate our interventions in the mediterranean, and this has emerged with great clarity. eurosur will serve to strengthen this coordination as the operational arm of frontex, although there will be an urgent need to improve its performance, with a structured and stronger dialogue with the individual national authorities, means, equipment, economic resources. in the meantime, the mediterranean is burning, as is the situation in syria, which is becoming more and more serious. the council of ministers of the member states did well yesterday in giving an extra billion euros to syria for what is happening, but we would like this courageous and shared choice to be taken up and developed also with regard to the countries bordering the south of europe, while europe's border must also have a better dialogue with the countries of north africa, with respect for each individual, with respect for the person, the migrant, the refugee but also for the populations concerned.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that in such a delicate matter it is perhaps appropriate not to use big political arguments which may appear to be instrumental but which are limited to common sense: we are faced with a possible espionage complaint, the first thing to do is to ask for an investigation to verify whether this huge problem in front of us really exists. in the meantime, the precautionary principle applies. there is a suspicion, the legislation we are discussing is suspended, and if the investigation comes to any conclusive conclusions, if it tells us that we are really facing a violation of such delicate individual and collective rights, we will have to question the agreement that was signed again by means of a withdrawal act. i see no alternative to this simple concatenation: the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many of the problems we have as a union are the non-conformity of the application of the laws, which leads to a real democratic vulnus and inadequate control at the level of the european union. a mapping of national legislation and international agreements governing the cross-border exchange of information is therefore necessary. the commission should also automate procedures, apply existing instruments, and evaluate the creation of a universal format for the exchange of information. but this also goes hand in hand with a number of police training initiatives to strengthen information exchange and cooperation. finally, the prüm decision: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. in short, once again, we need to integrate our union more closely to give our societies better answers.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the members of parliament who have raised this issue. i absolutely agree that organised crime is a truly cross-border challenge and that the only way to combat this is by closer cooperation by our law enforcement agencies, and organised crime is of course a key issue here. that is why it is sad that we do not make use of the instruments that we have at our disposal. i do not think that it is of any use right now to come up with new ideas for information-sharing, but we should use the ones that we have. only half the member states have actually implemented the prüm decision, and that is why it makes no sense to change the legal base. why is there this delay? we have tried to identify this. for some, it is a clearly practical issue. they do not know how to do it, which is why we are financing courses and training to help those member states. we are also putting together different member states so that they can coach each other and share experiences. this seems to be the main reason for the delay: they do not really know how, and it has not been high on their list of priorities either, but we are pushing and, as i said in my introduction, in many meetings of the jha council we have asked the member states to do much more. when will this be finalised? i am sorry, i cannot tell you. in a year it will be fully ‘lisbonised’, so then we can go for infringements, but i hope that by then, most of the member states will actually have done this. i fully agree with you, as well, that we need to have common standards and to look at this data protection. as soon as we see implementation moving further ahead, we will start looking at this as well. we will need to reflect on the best approach for further development in this field, and this is possibly something that could be done in a post-stockholm context. i am looking forward to discussions with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and others on this.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the questions i put to you on behalf of the committee concern the future of the european economic area, the possibility of intervening in this structure again to correct its limitations, its defects, and to be able to relaunch it with the aim of strengthening the internal market. as you and my colleagues know, the agreement on the creation of the european economic area dates back to 1994, so it has had a good period of verification of implementation. it was done between the countries belonging to the free trade association and the european union, with the aim of allowing these countries to participate in the activities of the single market even without joining it. today we are faced with a new development, which is not only related to the possible verification of the effects of the european economic area, but also to the request of some small european countries, and specifically andorra, san marino and monaco, to strengthen their relationship with the union. these are small countries with very important interests, which want to become part of the union's system, its structures and its institutional dimension. how can i do that? the commission indicated two possibilities: the first, as you know, is the establishment of a framework association agreement between these countries and the european union. the second is the accession of the three small countries directly to the european economic area. in the middle we have a question called switzerland. switzerland is the only country currently a member of the free trade association which has never formally joined the european economic area system. the reason, as you will recall, was the negative opinion expressed by the swiss people in a referendum. we have an objective interest in networking all these structures and in giving even the smallest states a chance of positive and effective dialogue with the european union. for this reason, we must decide what to do, which way to go, trying not to blow up - also with regard to switzerland - the very profitable relationship that has been established by virtue of a bilateral agreement that has led to more than 120 specific agreements between switzerland and the european union. so we ask them questions that are really rhetorical questions, because they already assume an answer that is in the question itself. we ask you whether the time has not come for the commission to examine the operation of the agreement establishing the european economic area, as i said it would do. since 1994, almost 20 years later, we have the conditions to be able to say whether that experience was a positive one or whether it showed limits. these twenty years have been full of events and i believe that we can draw from them the necessary conclusions to correct the agreement establishing the european economic area and to relaunch it by strengthening it. in this way, we indicate them - even if implicitly - which of the two options that have been presented, is, in our opinion, the most effective; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the second question is closely related to the first: we ask you whether you think the commission is prepared to consider the impact on the single market which would be caused by the possible extension of the agreement on the european economic area to the three countries i mentioned. can they formally enter the european economic area and have a close relationship, through this instrument, with the european union? the free trade association dates back to 1960, so it is very old - if i may use this expression - but it should not be overlooked for this reason, especially because it allows us to maintain this rather peculiar relationship with switzerland, whereas we think it is much more useful to concentrate on the european economic area, which is more recent, up-to-date and modifiable, as can be seen in the light of the experience we have had, and within the european economic area we could safely place andorra, san marino and monaco, awaiting further developments and further rapprochement between them and the european union. that's all, i think that - as i anticipated - in the questions we ask you there are already indications of preference on our part, but it is very important to hear your opinion.
the commission is not prepared to accept this amendment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again this year we are going to take stock of the activities of the committee on petitions. i think i can say, not because i am president, but because of the figures i will be reporting shortly, that the budget for 2012 is also positive. the committee on petitions has received 1 986 petitions, 1 387 of which were submitted electronically, while the remaining 599 were submitted in paper format, which means that we are beginning to make the system effective in a very visible way. the main themes: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, such as the introduction of a new system of taxation, the abolition of the right to vote and the right to petition the european parliament. 1 406 petitions out of 1 986 submitted were considered admissible and this is also a fact that should be emphasized, because the declaration of admissibility is a document certifying the awareness of citizens of this instrument of democracy. the more petitions that are declared admissible, the more familiar citizens are with european legislation and, above all, the more capable these institutions, the parliament and the commission, are of communicating adequately, by conveying the message to european citizens, the usefulness of this instrument of democracy. it should be noted that of the number of petitions we handled during 2012, at least 5 petitions were brought to the attention of the court of justice. following a judgment, the so-called tegebauer judgment, the committee on petitions pointed out that the right of every citizen to petition the european parliament, as guaranteed by the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, could also be challenged before the court of justice. in some cases the citizens felt that the european parliament's response, the response of the european institutions, not too timely, not adequately prepared, was prejudicial to these fundamental rights and the court, in the case i have mentioned, has given the citizens the right answer. so this calls for greater attention, greater care, not to underestimate this important instrument. in the field of fundamental rights, i would like to point out the intensive work we have done to give an answer to the many citizens who, from various european countries, have brought to our attention a mortifying, worrying fact: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of child abuse in family situations involving the separation of parents from two different countries of the union. the different disciplines in the member states, on family law, on the law of minors, very often mean that the tearing apart of the parents is also accompanied by the tearing apart of the minors, who are not always placed at the centre of these situations. we also carried out an important mission in berlin, which is one of the regions in germany that has been singled out for the difficulties it creates in similar situations, and we have achieved results and are moving forward, because we believe that, in any case, beyond the times, we must give an answer to the citizens who are asking us. another fact i like to highlight is the great success of the acta agreement that we have achieved: we have brought two and a half million citizens to this house, and in this house we have obtained a large majority vote against the signing of the acta treaty. i must say that the petitions on the environment were also very significant, some of which we have seen in this particular session, those on environmental impact assessment - we gave an opinion on the recasting of the directive - as well as those on extractive activities and shale gas. finally, a reference to the particularity of this committee: the data are positive, as i said in the introduction, but this committee should be evaluated for its particularity and should perhaps have a different procedural treatment: more staff, more meetings, more time to give space to citizens' rights.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, last week i participated in a citizens’ dialogue in košice in eastern slovakia and i was asked: ‘why are these dialogues important? what do they bring to our common cooperation in the european union?’. i replied that the direct contact with citizens brings up the most important issues, those which are most on their mind and the most pertinent. this helps us to plan our work better for the future. i think that this is the permanent role and task of the committee on petitions. you listen to citizens, you are very often the first place they take their worries and inquiries. you put questions on their behalf and help them to resolve the issues. i would say that, to a certain extent, you are very much the litmus test of the most important issues our citizens are dealing with in their daily lives. i would therefore also like to show my appreciation, not only for the high quality of the report, but of your work in general and the high quality of your cooperation with the commission. as i said at the beginning, we will try to improve our work in the commission as well, in order to speed up even further our responses to your questions. last year we managed to respond within a year in 838 cases out of 853 and we will try to do even better next year. i would just like to assure you of our commitment to having very good and fruitful cooperation with your committee.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the members who have taken part in this lively debate, and i thank commissioner šefčovič, vice-president, for his words of appreciation for the work we are doing and for the european commission's usual commitment to greater cooperation. we need it, very often always in a constructive and never controversial way we complain about the european commission's too long response times or strange secrets that are objected to by our committee that asks for information for the citizens, not for any other use. so, this, i'm very happy about. as for the atmosphere and the climate within the committee, i said earlier in my speech that it is a special committee - a non-legislative committee - in which we mediate between the european institutions and the citizens. it is not always easy to strike a balance because there is inevitably a component of instinctive passion that enters into our reasoning, but i must say - and mr auken will also agree with me - that in 99% of cases we solve the issues without having to count majorities or minorities. we define them with a sense of responsibility. it is difficult to find an exact perimeter to define our competence, difficult to give real-time answers to all citizens, as they would like. certainly the secretariat needs more help, more staff is needed, also the objections that have been raised about the lack of translation in all languages or about the timing; i am sorry to say that i have heard these objections, but they have already been requested from the relevant offices of parliament: the committee needs more support. we are doing our best and we hope to conclude this legislature by giving answers to all the citizens who have asked us for help in these five years of commitment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during yesterday's debate on the situation of the roma in europe, after my speech, my luxembourg colleague from the epp, frank engel, said that i was a liar for having said and reported facts about my own country, facts which, moreover, were in the newspaper. i was not given the opportunity to reply despite mr engel's use of the blue card. i am asking for a formal apology from my colleague today, otherwise i shall be forced to send to your presidency a request for disciplinary action. thank you, sir. mr. engel, the liar gives it to a relative of his and not to the undersigned.
in writing. - the neighbourhood policy is a very important tool for the eu, since there is no foreign policy as such. this value is even more pronounced in the case of the middle east: the arab spring signals a desire for change, which the eu must seize first to develop the commercial potential of the southern shore of the mediterranean, then to increase security and better control migration flows, and ultimately to surround itself with countries that live in wealth. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. the european parliament has voted today on the recommendation on jordan's participation in eu programmes. in 2010, the eu and jordan agreed on a european neighbourhood policy action plan which also includes the 'advanced status' of the kingdom of jordan as a partner of the european union. in this context, in march 2011, jordan expressed its interest in participating in programmes open to the partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy. the country is strategic for stability and security in the middle east, but its position also makes it vulnerable to external shocks, and jordan is currently facing the enormous challenge of providing adequate humanitarian assistance to syrian refugees in its territory, putting its financial resources to the test. the president of the republic, mr giscard d'estaing, has been very active in the fight against corruption and has been a key figure in the negotiations on the new constitution. in the light of these considerations, it appears essential to provide support to jordan and the framework agreement on the participation of jordan in union programmes should therefore be welcomed as it allows for enhanced dialogue and cooperation and sends a positive message on the importance of eu-jordan relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eurosur surveillance system could certainly be useful if it is properly implemented. the problem is that it would need resources to function properly, and it is not clear at the moment where these resources will come from or how much they will be. the agency frontex which is supposed to manage the programme is constantly running out of funds and just today its director declared that the money for the year 2013 is already practically gone. of course, this is not surprising when we consider that a large part of the resources allocated to frontex - about 30% - ends up financing the administrative machinery, starting with the pharaonic salaries of european officials working in warsaw. the money should go to operational activities because otherwise there is no point in maintaining another administrative vehicle. if eurosur can detect and prevent illegal immigration and prevent human trafficking in the mediterranean, then it will be a success, otherwise we will see other tragedies for which europe will also be responsible in the first place.
in writing. − the common border surveillance system is an important milestone for the european union and is designed to reduce the number of irregular migrants, reduce loss of life at sea and increase internal security by preventing crossborder crime such as human trafficking and illicit drug trafficking. the pressures on the community's land and sea borders require urgent responses and lasting solutions. it is our citizens who are demanding greater security and it is the eu's duty to give concrete answers so that tragedies like lampedusa are never repeated. this is eurosur. but we also need to revive frontex, because it is not working as it is, and establish a mandatory european system for sharing responsibility for humanitarian emergencies. i reiterate the need for a european council to deal with the issues of immigration, asylum and humanitarian emergencies.
in writing. the creation of a european border surveillance system, which we approve just days after the tragedy off lampedusa, is a positive step towards a common european responsibility for immigration. i supported this report with the conviction that the eurosur system will allow for a better coordinated community initiative along the union's external borders and can help save the lives of migrants crossing the mediterranean in search of a better life. but i will be fully satisfied, because what we have done today is a positive step but it is not enough, only when we come to change the powers of the frontex agency and review the cuts made to its budget; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals.
in writing. − the free movement of goods and persons is a founding principle of the european union. i believe that the possibility of moving within the union without being subject to internal border controls is one of the most important achievements. free movement, especially as it relates to the european economy, is fundamental to the success of the single market. in this context, i believe that schengen should be strengthened by better management of the union's external borders. i therefore support the commission's proposal in general terms: improved cooperation between member states and between the agencies concerned are essential elements for a more effective burden-sharing in the management of the external borders of the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that member states should cooperate with neighbouring third countries to prevent irregular migration and to combat crossborder crime. in addition, such agreements with third countries must be notified to the european commission. finally, i would draw the commission's attention to the desirability of introducing a single national coordination centre in each member state, responsible for cooperation with eurosur, which would at the same time allow for some flexibility as regards the internal regional organisation of the member states.
in writing. - when the shock of the lampedusa tragedy is still strong, one cannot resign oneself to a collection of good feelings. it would be both imperative for the eu and morally wrong for all of us not to respond in a decisive and concrete way. i therefore welcome and vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a eurosur regulation, which clearly sets out the principles and lines of cooperation at the union's borders as a necessary - albeit seriously neglected - element of the schengen process. it is important to have the appropriate and specific tools to combat criminal trafficking in human beings not only in the investigative dimension but on an operationally appropriate scale. the massacre of hundreds of desperate people off the coast of europe is not a matter for a murder investigation, it is a humanitarian emergency and an attack on our security by sophisticated as well as ruthless criminal gangs who thrive on the weakening of the civilian cadres in the countries of the southern shore. hence the link between eurosur and the external action service, which i hope will for once be able to operate with the specific attention and efficiency required for the new system to function.
in writing. − from a purely technical point of view, the eurosur communication network represents a necessary step forward in improving the detection of activities aimed at channelling illegal immigration flows. it is quite another to prevent this kind of extremely dangerous criminal activity, which has led to various humanitarian tragedies such as those which have occurred in the waters off lampedusa. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. in fact, such measures are likely to have only a very superficial and limited effect on the specific crime in question, namely the illicit trade in human flesh. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against fraud and other irregularities, which is to be adopted by the council on the basis of article j.2 of the treaty on european union, is a very good one. a moral and political abyss separates the northern league, which presented it, from the whitewashed political graves that rejected it.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that eurosur can strengthen the control of the external borders of the schengen area. by establishing a mechanism that allows border surveillance authorities to share operational information and cooperate with each other and frontex, eurosur will reduce the loss of life at sea, counter irregular immigration and increase internal security in order to prevent cross-border crime. following the recent lampedusa disaster, it was also decided to make clear in the text that one of the tasks of eurosur will be to ensure the protection of migrants and to save their lives in an emergency. once implemented, eurosur, by strengthening the cooperation between national border control authorities and the european agency frontex, will be a decisive step towards the progressive establishment of an integrated european border management system, which is crucial for a more effective management of the current humanitarian emergency.
in writing. - after the tragedy of lampedusa, this proposal is certainly too late. however, a border control mechanism is finally designed and implemented, which is added to frontex with the specific objective of limiting the illegal trafficking of both goods and people. italy, certainly one of the most exposed countries, needed eurosur and had to give up many of its legitimate claims to get it, but eventually the various states will have to cooperate to guard the coasts and try to avoid tragedies. as my colleagues and i have said many times in recent days, the southern border of italy is the border of the whole of the eu and this new surveillance system finally takes note of this. for these reasons, i voted in favour, with the sincere hope that we will never again hear of migrants dying on their way to our country.
in writing. the report talks about eurosur, the european border surveillance system, which is responsible for strengthening control of the external borders of the schengen area. i am voting against because our amendment on boarding sharing, which called for the distribution of migrants among the 28 member states, was rejected by the majority of members in the chamber. this, to me, shows a total lack of interest on the part of the eu in helping the countries of the union which alone are facing hardships and difficulties in dealing with the phenomenon of illegal immigration; i therefore vote against.
in writing. the regulation voted in plenary today establishes eurosur, a strengthened european border surveillance system, whose objective is to combat and prevent irregular immigration and crossborder crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking, more effectively. the introduction of a set of common tools and technologically advanced infrastructure will help to improve the situational awareness of the external, maritime and land borders and consequently the reaction capacity of the member states and frontex, the european agency for the management of the border. the system will enable the member states' surveillance authorities to intensify the exchange of operational information with frontex and to obtain the agency's support, in the presence of specific circumstances.
in writing. − the establishment of eurosur confirms the idea of creating the operational arm of frontex, hoping that in this respect there will be greater responsibility and solidarity on the part of the member states. we have a duty, as does the union of values, to combat immigration and human trafficking. i welcome the report by mr mulder and the positive support from the satellite agency and europol. eurosur will certainly serve to strengthen coordination as an operational tool of frontex, which needs to improve its performance through a more structured and stronger dialogue with the individual national authorities, in terms of means, equipment and economic resources. in the meantime, the mediterranean is burning, as is the situation in syria, which is becoming more and more serious. i welcome the decision of the eu council to allocate eur 1 billion to syria in view of its current situation, but i also believe that this courageous choice must be accompanied by important decisions also addressed to the countries and populations of the southern eu coastal regions, which constitute the eu's borders, in order to build a better dialogue with the countries of north africa, with respect for the migrant but also for the populations concerned.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session this morning, voted on a report by mr mulder on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing the european border surveillance system (eurosur). better management of the union's external borders is of crucial importance to prevent illegal immigration and to tackle cross-border crime. the eurosur system, by allowing the sharing of images and real-time data on what is happening at the eu's external borders, introduces an element of cooperation between the member states in an area that is too often considered a matter of little community attention, to the detriment of our country, and in particular the south. in the light of what has recently happened in lampedusa, i can only express my support for a resolution which aims to make europe more responsible for the management of the external borders, with a view also to a more effective burden-sharing in this area.
in writing. - the eu member states will now be better equipped to prevent, detect and combat illegal immigration. the eurosur border surveillance system approved today will allow real-time images and data on developments at europe's external borders to be shared. this will make it easier not only to prevent and combat illegal immigration but also to protect the human rights of women and girls in particular, who unfortunately have to make these long journeys of hope to save their lives.
in writing. − managing the production and use of pollutants through appropriate standards means enabling future generations to live in harmony with the natural environment, while maintaining consumption and welfare levels no lower than today's. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of this proposal to reduce the use of cadmium - a highly toxic and polluting substance - in portable batteries and accumulators, thereby alleviating the environmental impact of the production and disposal of these devices.
in writing. the commissioner also welcomed the fact that the european parliament had adopted a resolution on the situation in the baltic sea region. however, there is an exception for emergency and alarm systems. the commission intends to limit the derogation to the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for use in cordless power tools until 31 december 2015, the date chosen following an economic and environmental impact assessment. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to extend the existing derogation for nickel-cadmium batteries until 31 december 2016. according to epta, the trend towards using ion batteries is increasing at the expense of nickel-cadmium batteries. however, lithium-ion batteries are more expensive and sold less in some european regions such as eastern europe. in addition, it should be taken into account that cadmium can be 100% recycled and complete its cycle in batteries, thus significantly reducing the risks to the environment and human health. an additional year will be beneficial because it will allow for a gradual reorientation of preferences towards relevant market-based substitution technologies in a more uniform manner across all eu regions.
in writing. - i think that this resolution was formally incorrect. my colleagues in the epp who dealt with it did everything possible (to table an alternative resolution and, before voting on it, to ask for separate votes for the most unfair parties) to make it acceptable, but unfortunately the majority of parliament expressed itself differently. i do not think it is right for the cia to intervene in europe in ways that are not based on the law in force, but on the other hand, if it is a question of fighting international terrorism, the european states must play their part, and i would prefer that this be done with surgical and selective counter-intelligence in europe and the usa rather than with soldiers and bombs in poor countries. in particular, i did not share the criticisms of italy. i hope that the legislative texts which may result from this resolution will be more moderate and correct.
in writing. - i voted against this joint resolution drawn up by my colleagues from s&d, alde, greens/efa and gue/ngl. in 2012, the epp group, of which i am a member, supported the report on the same issue by hélène flautre, on the grounds that it was a balanced and factually accurate report. the report put to the vote at this part-session does not reflect these characteristics: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. there is no point in continuing to harmonize legislation when we cannot exchange information for law enforcement. my group has fought to put this principle on the agenda, and i hope that the statements in this resolution will soon be translated into legislative proposals and that the efficiency of the whole legal system will be increased.
in writing. - i have already spoken on this subject several times, because i consider it particularly important. in a europe without frontiers, with its benefits and problems, there is an ever-increasing need for close cooperation between the police and the investigating authorities of the various member states. very often, criminal individuals or organizations move freely between different countries to carry out their criminal activities: it is obvious that without close cooperation and continuous exchange of data and information, it is becoming increasingly difficult for law enforcement to identify these people. the tools currently available should certainly be improved, especially by taking full advantage of the technological potential that we all know today: the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in this sense, i think it would be desirable, for example, to create a universal european format for the exchange of information: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
in writing. − i agree that there is a need to plan better eu action on combating caste discrimination. an evil that affects various sectors, both public and private, and that causes poverty and inequality and hinders development goals. this important issue must be brought to the attention of the european institutional actors, so that it can be taken into account in the development of all related policies, in particular by stimulating the action of the european external action service and the european commission.
in writing. - it is unacceptable that in the 21st century, hundreds of thousands of people in many countries of the world are discriminated against on the basis of caste. this is a phenomenon which is still very widespread in some asian states such as india, nepal, pakistan, bangladesh and sri lanka, and which even includes the so-called "untouchability practices". however, discrimination based on work and birth is also present elsewhere, such as in yemen, mauritania, nigeria, senegal and somalia. the european union should make its voice heard, especially in the trade agreements it concludes with these countries: the rights of individuals and workers cannot be guaranteed only in certain circumstances, but should always be guaranteed. in recent years, caste discrimination has also been increasingly observed in our member states, due to the immigration of entire communities from these countries, where these millenary traditions have remained ingrained in the population: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2012. a document which shows the important work being done in the european parliament to give effect to the right of citizens to bring to our attention issues which they consider relevant. furthermore, it is clear from the analysis of the various cases that the contribution of the committee on petitions has been valuable in the management or resolution of important issues, or in the stimulation of the competent authorities to address the issues raised. despite the positive results, i believe that every mep must do everything possible to make this valuable tool known to the public, especially in view of the 2014 european elections, in which it is our duty to convey to citizens the added value of europe in their daily lives and all the actions they can take to get the right benefit from it, in concrete terms.
in writing. − the report specifies the right of every union citizen to petition the european institutions and the right to lodge a complaint with the european ombudsman in a transparent and lawful manner. most of the petitions submitted are those concerning the violation of the fundamental rights of the roma ethnic group; in this respect, the case takes a favourable political stance towards this minority, putting other issues on the back burner: i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. − this report covers all the work of the committee on petitions of the european parliament for the year 2012. it is undeniable that there have been numerous and important initiatives, starting with the participation of the commission itself in the third european parliament of people with disabilities, which took place on 5 december 2012 in brussels. i had the honour of chairing the assembly on that occasion as vice-president of the european parliament's intergroup on disability. we have been able to hear the requests of these people, who often address petitions to the european parliament to denounce their difficulties and the fact that they do not enjoy the freedoms and fundamental rights enshrined in the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i would like to see these complaints as a starting point for rapid action to try to solve all these problems, but too often we simply ignore them. environmental issues have also been very much in evidence, and i have to say that perhaps better results have been obtained. i hope that in future we will be able to get more and more concrete answers, so that citizens' petitions are not left to themselves.
in writing. - this morning the european parliament approved in plenary the report by mr mcmillan-scott on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2012. the report of last year shows a significant increase in the number of petitions lodged and accepted by the european parliament; the protection of citizens' fundamental rights, not only civil but also socioeconomic, in a context of deep economic crisis, remains a key concern of the parliamentary institution. i can only express a view which is in line with the report and i think it is appropriate to call on my fellow citizens to make careful and continuous use of the petition tool to defend their rights as european citizens.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, this rather shocking news should make all those who want a united states of europe like the united states of america happy, because like the united states of america we are now moving towards the end of public payments. it is useless to discuss who is responsible: this shows that perhaps a step back or perhaps several steps back would be appropriate. in any case, i believe that if this item is to be put on the agenda, it should not be put to a simple vote, but there should also be a discussion not only in committee but also in the house.
member of the commission. − madam president, i have felt today that there is very solid agreement on the overall eu strategy for warsaw and paris. that has been very good to see. there will be a stepwise approach, with a timeline adopted in warsaw and everybody having to do their homework prior to paris rather than in paris. next year, 2014, must also be the year of ambition in europe. we must get ready and put our own house in order. we will also have to assess all the different pledges from different countries in an open, transparent and unthreatening manner, to see if that combined will take us as far as want to go. if not, we must discuss what to do. it has been positive to see this strong backing. i only have three small comments and a correction to make. firstly, to ms jordan, i have to correct the misinformation that the eu’s emissions are increasing. that is not true. they are continuing to decrease. they are not growing. ms mcguinness had some very relevant questions, and i very much share the view that we should not be all gloom and doom. we have to give people opportunities. one of these opportunities is in the area of jobs. in the commission, we can see that one driver for jobs – during the crisis year and also when we analyse the potential up to 2020 – would be for europe to address energy efficiency, as was mentioned, and also renewables. we can see that these two sectors – and this includes handling of waste and recycling – have real potential to contribute to net job creation by 2020. also, macro-economically speaking, in europe – just to take one example – last year, in the crisis year of 2012, we spent almost eur 1 billion per day paying the bill for imported oil. if we can bring down that kind of cost, i think that most people would be able to see that it would also benefit our overall macroeconomics. that is the kind of argument that we will try to make very visible in the preparatory work we are doing on 2030. it is very important for europe that all parties are part of a future agreement for the period after 2020. mr florenz asked what the strategy was. he mentioned annex i and non-annex i countries. in my world, we already fought over that in durban, where it was very clearly decided that in 2015, when deciding on the post-2020 policies, all countries would have to commit according to their capabilities and all would have to be equally legally bound. that is a very important game-changer which i believe europe wants, together with our good friends and the people we worked with in durban. this is, of course, something that we still want the rest of the world to respect. this is not something new to be negotiated. it was already agreed in durban. lastly, a question was asked about where the financing would come from. to be very clear on this, i think that we all face challenges here. the developed countries face challenges here. i think that the base for who should contribute to financing should also be broadened after 2020. i would make it very clear that there is no way that the usd 100 billion per year by 2020 could come only from public sources. we must also find innovative ways to use public money, leveraging more private investments in this kind of transformation that we need. in fact, on thursday, a lot of donor countries will be meeting in denmark to discuss with the world bank, the oecd, the regional development banks and all their institutional investors what obstacles are currently standing in the way of seeing enough investment in low carbon transition, for instance in the developing world. i would just like to say that there is substantial work going on in this area, with a view to broadening the financial base. it cannot come only through public money. we should find intelligent ways to use public money in order to leverage more private investment.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european union has made a fundamental choice, which it has been pursuing with great determination for several years, to integrate into an open and global market, with a series of free trade agreements, a role of impetus in the negotiations - which are actually going slowly - for an ambitious multilateral regulatory framework within the world trade organisation, as well as a series of plurilateral agreements. this is all very well, but it also exposes the european union to behaviour which can be wrong, in some cases to outright trade wars. the term "trade war" should not scare us: if today war is often no longer fought with armed forces, it is fought instead through disloyal behaviour, breaking the rules established bilaterally or multilaterally. it is therefore important to have a framework of deterrent forces, that is to say, of retaliatory behaviour, which the european union can apply in the event that some of our trading partners decide not to comply with the agreements. that is the subject of the regulation under discussion today: we must organize a deterrent force, hoping never to have to use it, but making it available for rapid use when needed. already by setting up our forces with this regulation, we will avoid - through deterrence - that others do not respect the agreements that have been signed. the most surprising thing is that we arrived at this regulation rather late, after years of confrontation with the free market in which some instances of the european union were sometimes left without sufficient defence. for the world trade organization retaliation is something to be used as a last resort after negotiations, negotiations, after a constructive dialogue, but it can be used. and if today the united states of america can take measures within a few weeks to assert its rights against trading partners who have violated the agreements, the european union needs 15 to 31 months to implement our responses, our responses, our retaliation. hence the need for a horizontal regulation adopting an organic set of procedures in a timely manner. we know the measurements: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new tariffs and duties, the limitation of quantities and the suspension of concessions in public procurement. and they can also be mixed measures, where we can apply retaliatory measures to the same product where our partner has been unfair in the same agreement, or we can apply retaliatory measures to the same product but under a different agreement where our partner is still involved, or even under other agreements. we must remember a precedent which, of course, did not shine in the speed of the european union's response: the european union has been involved in a number of conflicts with the united states over steel, and the european response has been through retaliatory measures on oranges, citrus fruits and clothing. the european parliament has introduced two important innovations into this regulation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think mr rinaldi's report is a good report and goes in the right direction. it is very important that parliament should approve a proposal for a regulation, but we must also ask ourselves, commissioner, why trade disputes have increased in recent years. paradoxically, as the number of agreements and treaties signed grew, the non-respect of these treaties and the violation of some important points became almost daily. it is therefore perhaps necessary to take a step back and try to include both incentives to respect the treaties and sanctions in the treaties, because i believe that otherwise we could find ourselves faced with the paradoxical situation of having, on the one hand, an increase in relations, mainly commercial relations, which precede those political ones, and at the same time, unfortunately, also having an incomprehensible increase in conflicts and non-compliance with the very contents of the treaties.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, the commission is encouraged by the overall supportive and cooperative approach to this proposed regulatory framework, which would enable the european union to make a horizontal and swift response when applying and enforcing the international trade rules. your proposals and your positions will therefore be duly conveyed to the relevant commission services in order to finalise this legislative file as soon as possible. i would just like to comment on two major proposals that came out of today’s debate and in the days and months beforehand. the first is the inclusion of services into the retaliation measures. we are aware of the importance of services and we have considered the possibility internally. however, at the moment we believe that the complexity of the service sector is such that inclusion would bring more problems than solutions and would carry us away from the main objective of the proposals. therefore, we will keep studying the field and even the practicalities of extending the proposals to other areas. but this will be a proposal to be studied in the future. the other proposal boils down to having a more thorough parliamentary involvement in the preparation and implementation of the measures under this regulation. we are willing to involve the european parliament through standard channels, and we are aware of the importance to all stakeholders of the measures that will possibly be adopted under this regulation. on the other hand, the proposal seeks to provide for a balanced mechanism that preserves the treaties’ institutional balance, with the commission as the executive body, subject to political control by the european parliament and the council. we are ready to work with you as regards our information and communication practices, while observing the legal and institutional boundaries.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would naturally like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who have accompanied me in this work and the secretariat. mr commissioner, we have been very consistent in the committee in drawing up this report and i think we have also set an example of speed, as it was discussed and adopted in a very short time. there is a clear perception, even among the consumers who are part of its mandate, and certainly among a large part of the european productive world, that the challenge of globalisation is to be met with unequal arms and that there is sometimes even a sense of abandonment in relation to this choice, which we confirm, of confronting the free market, but which nonetheless needs effective measures and responses. some people have even brought up these issues in the debate. the inclusion of services cannot wait for the next proposal, which will come at any moment and which will need more time. i understand the commission's difficulties because we are certainly on difficult ground, but the legal basis for services in the world trade organisation already exists and services are increasingly part of our trade. just as it is not easy to have retaliatory measures in the field of public procurement, which we have included in our regulation, we must also do so in the field of services. i would therefore ask you to convey to the commissioner our willingness and our shared view, which is common to the committee on international trade, that we must send a signal to our businesses and our consumers that there are deterrents against misconduct in manufacturing, procurement and services. after all, globalisation certainly brings stability, peace, but also at the cost of decisions that sometimes have to be made with a determination that has not always been demonstrated. i repeat: we have been very consensual about this report in committee, but these are measures which we members are not alone in calling for, there is a large part of european society which is waiting for these retaliatory instruments to be put in place as effectively as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vilnius is a very important occasion - as the commissioner knows - and one that must not be missed. it is one of the rare occasions when a measure concerning trade, and therefore indirectly economic and productive activities, has a very significant effect on policy. we must help these countries to regain an autonomy they did not have before. it is clear that russia will resist, will try to interfere and will be influenced in various ways, but the european union must have the courage to carry through the negotiations that have begun and above all to show a willingness to find solutions, compromise or mediation - whatever you want to call them - that will allow us to establish a relationship with these countries quickly, because their future position will depend very much on the life of our union. i think it was a historically extraordinary process that led to the disintegration of what was considered an empire. we must now give everyone the opportunity to have an autonomous and independent placement, also through the tools at our disposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report contains a number of incredible and paradoxical statements. for example, it condemns the right of doctors to oppose abortion as conscientious objectors, and it also regrets that this practice is not allowed in hospitals and clinics of a religious nature. it would seem very strange to me if it were not. paragraph 53 of the text then calls for us to convey a positive view of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. i wonder what that means. we have gone from a just struggle against discrimination to a glorification of a condition that is not normal in nature, and by that i mean that nature created man and woman to join together and procreate, thus allowing the continuation of the species and life. i am appalled to read that access to fertility treatment and assisted reproduction should be guaranteed to single women and lesbians. it's the triumph of personal selfishness. man and his selfishness cannot upset what god and nature have created. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, it is very nice of your colleague to ask me if i have sex with the intention of procreating and not only. but there's another problem. i understand from your words that you probably don't even know the text well, because i quoted paragraph 53 where you refer to a positive view of lesbian, gay and bisexual people, which i don't understand. what do you mean, "positive opinion" of these people? does that mean that everyone else, the heterosexuals, don't have a positive opinion? we are in a paradox, a discrimination against all people. we are fighting against discrimination and then i find myself with a text that expresses itself in a completely different way.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have almost reached the point of no return, the end of this european union which has become distorted. the backing of the commission, parliament and council on this budget is emblematic. the council promises commitments in words only, but then in reality it behaves differently, proposing indiscriminate cuts. i can also understand the position of the member states: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a huge misunderstanding which should be cleared up. but now we cannot afford to ignore the commitments already made and payments must be made as quickly as possible to save at least what little credibility remains. i am glad that the need for a single seat for this parliament is finally being stressed. we may not be able to save europe, but we will certainly help to restore dignity to this institution that we represent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, you closed the vote in a tenth of a second. many of us did not vote, so please vote again.
winner of the 1990 sakharov prize. − mr president, this is for me a joyous and a deeply meaningful occasion: a joyous one because i have been given the opportunity to thank all of you for the support that you have given me and my party and all those who believe in democracy in burma for over two decades. it is deeply meaningful because the sakharov prize was very meaningful. it was given to me in 1990. that was a year of great significance in the history of burmese politics. that was the year in which the first democratic elections in over two decades were held in my country. in these elections my party, the national league for democracy, won over 82 % of the seats that were contested, but we were never allowed to take office; we were never allowed to even call parliament; we were never allowed to implement the wishes of the people, as had been expressed through those elections. instead, our party was repressed. our people were persecuted, and we had to struggle on for a couple more decades before reaching this stage. where are we now? i think we have to look at this in a very practical way. we have made progress since 1990, but we have not made sufficient progress. but before i talk about this, i would like to say a few words about what the prize meant to me at that time. i had become familiar with professor sakharov through the writings of others, as well as through his own writings. i was sent a copy of his memoirs while i was under house arrest, and i remember the day when i received it, because whenever i received books from my family at that time, it was always a very exciting moment for me – this was my contact with the outside world, and i got into the habit of always smelling the books before i read them. there is something very nice about the smell of fresh printer’s ink. this was for me the beginning of a very pleasurable few hours reading a new book. when i read professor sakharov’s book, i was struck by the fact that he was so down to earth and so practical and scientific in his approach to politics. i have to confess that i did not quite understand some of his scientific comments, but it made me feel very good simply to be reading them. i remember reading them on a very sunny day – sunny like today here in strasbourg (but of course we have many more sunny days in burma), and thinking that this was a happy occasion for me – even though i was under house arrest – to be able to read something by a man whom i admired, a man whom i saw as a great champion of human rights and freedom of thought. (applause) freedom of thought is essential to human progress. if we stop freedom of thought, we stop progress in our world. because of this, it is so important that we teach our children – our young people – the importance of freedom of thought. freedom of thought begins with the right to ask questions, and our people in burma have not had this right for so long that some of our young people do not quite know how to ask questions. one of the tasks we have set ourselves in my party, the national league for democracy, is to teach our young people to ask questions and not to accept everything that is done to them without asking why. ‘why?’ is one of the most important words in any language. you have to know why the world is the way it is, or you have to want to know. if you do not have this curiosity, and if you do not have the intelligence to be able to express this curiosity in terms that others can understand, then we will not be able to contribute towards progress in our world. how many of our people over these past few decades ever asked themselves why they had to submit to the authority of people who did not have the mandate of the general public? i do not think very many did. it was taken for granted that those who had power and authority could do exactly as they pleased. this was something that we could not accept. during the years of repression, many of our people were arrested almost on a daily basis, and we had to teach them to ask those who came to arrest them: ‘why?’ we had to teach them their basic rights, and we had to say to them that, if somebody came to arrest them in the middle of the night, they had the right to ask: ‘do you have a warrant?’ even that many of our people did not know. i have to confess that one of those who took our teachings very seriously and asked those had come to arrest him if they had a warrant, received the reply: ‘don’t be silly. we have already decided how many years you are going to be imprisoned for’. so this is the kind of society in which we had to live for many years. but we have made progress. that, i think we admit, we recognise. not sufficient progress. our people are just beginning to learn that freedom of thought is possible, but we want to make sure that their right to think freely and to live in accordance with their conscience is preserved. this right is not yet 100 % guaranteed. we still have to work very hard before the basic law of the land – which is the constitution – will guarantee us the right to live in accordance with our conscience. that is why we insist that the present constitution must be changed into a truly democratic one. i think professor sakharov would agree that, if we are to be firmly on the road to democracy – that is to say, if we are to adopt a system that respects the will of the people – it would not do to have a constitution that subjects the people to the authority of one particular organisation – an unelected organisation, which is the military. i have often said – sometimes to the annoyance of many of my colleagues – that i have a great fondness for the burmese military. this is very natural, because my father was a founder of the army, and i was brought up to love it and to look upon it as our family. and one of the great aims – the main aims – of our democratic movement was to bring about national reconciliation, which means reconciliation between the then ruling army and the civilians who wanted democracy. we are still trying to achieve such a reconciliation but, in order to achieve this reconciliation, we need the help of all our friends all over the world. i accept – and i am very proud to accept – that it is the people of my country who must do most, who must work hardest and who will ultimately be responsible for the democratisation of our country. but, at the same time, in this day and age, we cannot ignore the fact that the weight of international opinion is immense and that the world has great power over any particular society anywhere. we are in the age of globalisation, which has its drawbacks and problems, but it also has great advantages in that nowhere in the world can people ignore what other people think. (applause)this brings me back to freedom of thought. because you are in a position to be able to think freely and to be able to live in accordance with your conscience, you have great power, you have great strength in your endeavours to help our people to engage in freedom of thought and to be able to live in accordance with their conscience. when the european parliament, the european union, the european commission, the free world recognised our movement for democracy in burma, it gave us the strength to go on, despite great odds. there were those who told us that we should give up because we were trying to achieve the unachievable, but i have never thought that anything that human beings wanted to achieve for the society in which we live was beyond reach. we only have to have the will and the determination to pursue our goals. our goals are very simple. our people simply want to live in dignity and in peace. we want to be free from want and free from fear. these are the freedoms that are recognised as most important by the community of nations, as reflected in the united nations charter of human rights. because we wish to live free from want and free from fear, we have had to face want and we have had to face our own fears and overcome them. this we have managed to do because of the solidarity, not just of our own people, but of the world at large. solidarity is a beautiful word because it means that you reach out to those who are different from you and who have to cope with different circumstances, because we recognise that we all share the same human needs and the same values. it is the values that count most of all: the value of freedom of thought, the value of democratic practices, the value of respect for your fellow human beings. i have never claimed that democracy was the perfect system, because we human beings are not perfect. we are not capable of producing a system that is perfect. but i think there is something rather nice and challenging about imperfection. if we were all perfect, i think it would be a very boring world but, as it is – because we have to cope every day with our imperfections – every day can become a day of excitement. you wake up and say to yourself: ‘now, which one of my many imperfections shall i work on today?’ and that makes it very interesting and very challenging. but it is more important that we work on the imperfections of societies and of laws and practices that truly hurt us as human beings and that erode the foundation of human dignity. it is because of this that we feel that our quest for democracy is not yet at an end. we will not achieve perfection, as i said earlier, but we do want to get to the point where we can say that the laws of the land and the institutions of our society guarantee that our people can live in human dignity as far as it is possible for human beings to do so. we all have to be responsible for ourselves. i accept the concept that respect for yourself must be at the foundation of respect for others. it is only if you respect yourself as a human being and have faith in your ability to achieve what should be achieved that you will be able to help others. you in the european union are fortunate to have been born in countries – well perhaps you were not born in those countries, but you have made those countries the kind of countries – where you could live as dignified human beings. there are many countries in the european union now which, at the time when we started our movement for democracy in 1988, did not yet enjoy the fruits of a democratic society. it is sad – but i am proud and sad at the same time – to say that the democratic revolution started in burma before it started in the czech republic or slovakia or romania or ... i can name a great number of countries which only started getting onto the road to democracy in 1989 – a whole year after we had started. (applause)but they outstripped us; they went forward and we were left behind. but now we are on the road towards democracy. we have not got there yet, and we would like you to be aware of the fact that we still need your help and support, and your understanding that we still need to make a lot more progress before we can say we are where professor sakharov would have wished us to be – and he would have wished us to be in a place where freedom of thought was the birthright of every single citizen of our country. to achieve this position of a society which would have had the approval of professor sakharov, we will have to work a lot harder. our people will have to do the greater part of the work, but i believe that all of you can help us in our endeavours. i have always said that there is no hope without endeavour. hope has no meaning unless we are prepared to work to realise our hopes and dreams, but in order to do that we need to have friends. we need those who believe in us. friends ultimately are those who believe in us enough to want to help us in whatever it is that we are trying to achieve. so i would like to take this opportunity, as i thank you for the sakharov prize, to say that i hope you will be our friends in our continuing endeavour to achieve democratic rights for our people. i hope you will give us the understanding that we need to resolve the many problems that our country is having to face today. i hope we will have your help in freeing our people from want and fear, because it is a fact that fear is still very much part of our society. unless we are free from fear, we will not be able to give our children the kind of future that we would like them to have. the future of our country is in our young people, as the future of the world is in the hands of our young people. we would like you to understand that we need help with education, health and inclusive development, so that the future of our country might be safe and the future of our children and our young people assured. but in order to achieve progress in those areas, we need basically the kind of political system that will give our people the right to shape their own destiny. when the fathers of the independence movement were working to free our country from colonial rule, they said: ‘we want the right to shape our own destiny’. this is still what we need in burma: the right of our people to shape our own destiny. we want to be able to decide what we think is best for ourselves. we want to be able to learn to sort out our differences; we want to be able to reach a united position in spite of our differences, because burma is a country of many peoples, opinions, religions and races. we all have to come together and create unity out of diversity so that the destiny that we build may be one that is right not just for now but for generations to come. and as we work to achieve such an end, we hope that you will be with us to point out our mistakes whenever we need to know that we have made mistakes; to help us when you think we are doing the right thing; and always to remember that, ultimately, we are one, whether we are europeans or asians, or whether we are africans, australians or americans. we are all one because of our shared, common human values, based on the belief that we have the right to the birthright of every human being, which is a dignified and secure existence. security, freedom, dignity: if we had these three, we could say that it has been worthwhile being born into this world, and i would like all the young people of burma and all over the world to be able to feel that it was right that they have been born into this world. i would not like our young people to ask this question: ‘why were we born at all?’ i want them to ask every kind of question; but for them to question why they have been born into a situation which does not assure them of their right to dignity and to freedom from want and from fear – that is not the kind of question i would wish anybody to ask. so may i conclude by saying once again how much i appreciate all that you have done to support our people in their endeavours to live with their conscience freely and proudly. i would like to say that there will come a time when our people too can make our own contribution to the world. i am confident that the young people of burma now will one day be valued citizens of the world, helping to promote those rights and those achievements of which professor sakharov would have approved. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
member of the commission. −commission’s position on amendments by parliamentreport carl schlyter schylter (a7-0132/2013) declaration by the commission on the procedure of adoption of implementing acts the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation (eu) n. 182/2011 (oj l 55 of 28.2.2011, p. 13) to invoke article 5§4, subparagraph 2, point b) in a systematic manner. recource to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established in article 5§4 recource to subparagraph 2, point b), cannot be simply seen as a ‘discretionary power’ of the legislator but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified.
madam president, the vote is free and no one should be conditioned, because it is precisely on these sensitive subjects that each member must be free to vote in his own conscience.
madam president, i think that, on a request repeated by the house and widely shared, the presidency can reconsider its position and refer the matter back to committee. the decisions of the presidency are not dogmas of faith, and if there is a proposal which is supported by the majority of this house, i would ask you to take it into account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation. i am in principle in favour of free trade, but in this case i am all the more in favour because i do not think that the two immediate effects are going to have an impact on italian production: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is a good compromise, although we must ensure that kosovar producers comply with the technical standards required in our market and that the share of these wines is not disproportionate to the rest of the world.
in writing. the report deals with the subject of wine imports: the commission proposes to amend the general tariff quota for all the balkan countries by allocating a specific quota of 20 000 hectolitres to kosovo and reducing the remaining quota for all the other countries to 30 000 hectolitres. i am voting against the text because the production costs and the different rules in terms of controls would lead to the entry of products which could unfairly compete with the wine of the member states.
in writing. − at present, the quantity of wine from albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia that can be imported duty-free or at a lower rate of duty is subject to a series of quotas, i.e. a global tariff quota provided for by a council regulation, and a specific individual tariff quota granted by a series of stabilisation and association agreements concluded with the eu by all the states listed above, with the exception of kosovo. consequently, kosovo does not benefit from an individual tariff quota. the regulation voted today aims to correct this disadvantage by allocating a specific tariff quota to kosovo, which will be deducted, in a reasonable manner, from the overall quota provided for in the council regulation. this will keep intact the overall share of wine that this group of countries can export to the eu, enjoying preferential tariff treatment.
in writing. - we welcomed today in plenary the proposal for a regulation by mr winkler, which seeks to correct annex i to council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 concerning the export of wine to kosovo. the latter, unlike other western balkan countries, having not concluded stabilisation and association agreements with the eu, can only benefit from the general tariff quota established by regulation (ec) no 1215/2009. however, once this global tariff quota is exhausted by the other countries, kosovo exporters lose preferential access to the eu market. we believe that it is essential to create a level playing field within the european union and since kosovar wine exporters are currently in a supposedly disadvantageous position compared to other western balkan exporters, we support this proposal to amend the regulation. it is also worth pointing out that such a change would merely change the allocations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr iuliu winkler on the tariff quotas for wines because i believe in the commercial potential this could offer to the balkan regions not yet part of the union. the issue of the european union's stabilisation and association procedures refers to council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 of 30 november 2009 establishing exceptional measures for countries involved in such procedures. the exceptional and unlimited duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products originating in albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia allows for gradual but significant economic integration, with a view to future accession to the union of these countries.
in writing. − by council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 of 30 november 2009, the european union granted exceptional and unlimited duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products originating in the countries benefiting from the stabilisation and association process, except for wine and baby beef, which remain subject to tariff quotas. the aim of these measures is to give a new impetus to the economies of the western balkan countries through privileged access to the eu market. it is believed that economic development will in turn promote political stability in the whole region. those trade preferences were granted for a period expiring on 31 december 2015 and currently apply to bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, albania, the republic of croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and kosovo. kosovo has not concluded specific stabilisation and association agreements and can therefore only benefit from the general tariff quota. once this tariff quota has been exhausted by other countries, kosovo exporters have no preferential access to the eu market. i therefore consider the proposal to allocate an extra specific tariff quota of 20 000 hectolitres to that country to be legitimate if it can help stabilize the democratic conditions in that country.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 governs tariff quotas and trade measures applicable to third countries linked to the eu by trade partnership agreements, customs clearance, access to the union market. the regulation covers a number of products which therefore enjoy special trade freedoms in terms of marketable quantities and exemptions from customs duties. the amendment therefore concerns the inclusion of wine in the list of these products by establishing a tariff quota favourable to the european wine sector.
in writing. − because the eu has no stabilisation and association agreement or interim agreement with kosovo, kosovo can benefit solely from the global tariff quota established in the current regulation on global tariff quotas for wine. but kosovan exporters then lose preferential access to the eu market when this global tariff quota is exhausted by other countries. as kosovo has demonstrated its potential to export wine to the eu, it makes sense to fix this asymmetry by allocating a specific tariff quota for wine specifically to kosovo. in order to promote level competition regarding imports of wine into the eu from all western balkan countries, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the report by mr winkler on the tariff quotas for wine was voted on today in plenary. council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 provides that imports of wine from all the western balkan countries are subject to a global tariff quota of 50 000 hl which sets the quantity of wine that can be imported duty-free or at lower duties and is only accessible subject to the exhaustion of the quotas provided for in the respective trade stabilisation agreements between the balkan countries and the eu. kosovo has not concluded any stabilisation agreement with the eu and can therefore benefit in respect of wine only from the general tariff quota established by the regulation. when this quota is exhausted by the other countries, kosovo exporters lose preferential access to the eu market. it is therefore appropriate, as proposed by the rapporteur, to adopt a proposal for a regulation correcting this asymmetry by amending annex i to regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 and allocating to kosovo a specific tariff quota of 20 000 hl, which will be deducted from the overall quota of 50 000 hl. this approach will create a level playing field for wine imports into the eu from all the western balkan countries by simply changing the allocation of the tariff quota.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation which is based on a reasonable approach to create a level playing field for wine imports into the eu from all the western balkan countries. i would point out that the allocation of a specific tariff quota for wine originating in kosovo does not entail any overall increase in the overall tariff quota for wine which can be imported from the western balkans, but merely changes the allocation of the quota, correcting the alleged unfavourable position of kosovar wine exporters. furthermore, it appears that the level of the wine quota allocated to kosovo is defined on the basis of previous trade in that product and, as this is the method normally used to determine the levels of the quotas, the wine quota allocated to kosovo does not appear to be disproportionate to the individual tariff quotas granted to the other western balkan countries for the same product under the association and stabilisation agreements or the interim agreements.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 of 30 november 2009 establishing a system of exceptional trade measures applicable to countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process. in practice, it grants exceptional and unlimited duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products originating in albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. such asymmetrical liberalisation would normally constitute a breach of the wto provisions on non-discrimination; however, these trade preferences for the western balkan countries are explicitly authorised by wto derogation until 31 december 2015. with the exception of kosovo, all the above countries have concluded stabilisation and association agreements or interim agreements on trade and related matters with the eu. the winkler report concerns tariff measures for wines from kosovo, with which there is still no stabilisation and association agreement. the measure that will be applied is in line with the same type of products from serbia and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − today's vote marks an important step forward in the supporting work that the european union is carrying out with its neighbourhood policy. the financial assistance will enable the kyrgyz republic - which was badly hit by an outbreak of interethnic violence in 2010 - to continue the stabilisation process and constitutional reforms that will enable the country to continue on the path towards democratic and economic stability. as chairman of the parliamentary delegation for relations between the european parliament and central asia - and therefore also with kyrgyzstan - i have been following the development of this process closely. after almost two years of work, i therefore welcomed the result of the commitment shown by the institutions in reaching an agreement with a rapid second reading procedure. this outcome will allow, after a long period of bureaucratic deadlock, the release of financial support and will ensure that kyrgyzstan receives the support it needs to continue its commitment to development, stability, shared democratic values and economic growth. i am convinced that the restoration of the country's financial and social sustainability will also have a positive impact on the role kyrgyzstan plays in regional strategic stability.
in writing. - development cooperation is a budgetary chapter that is often tempted to be cut, especially in times of crisis. but it would be like a farmer saving on seeds because the harvest was not good: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this case, where the eu is providing assistance to kyrgyzstan, half in loans and half in grants, to improve its balance of payments, we have the opportunity to influence the development of a central asian country, in the hope that our investment will be fruitful and that the purchasing power that will be generated will also be directed towards our products.
in writing. − following a series of interinstitutional negotiations that began in june 2012, today's vote provides macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. the european union has therefore committed itself to providing 30 million euro, half in the form of grants and half in the form of loans, to help restore balance of payments stability in the country.
in writing. − in 2009, the kyrgyz republic was hit by the global crisis. soon after, economic problems were exacerbated by a popular uprising that in april 2010 brought an end to the regime of president bakiyev, accused of corruption and lack of democracy. in the resulting power vacuum, inter-ethnic violence erupted in the south of the country in june 2010, with a heavy toll of 470 victims and nearly 300,000 displaced. despite these tragic events, the new interim government won a vote in favour of democratic reforms in a constitutional referendum held on 27 june 2010. in june 2011, the imf entered into a follow-on agreement with the authorities of the kyrgyz republic (in the form of an extended credit facility) for usd 106 million to support a comprehensive economic adjustment and reform programme to be implemented in the period from mid-2011 to mid-2014. in the face of democratic efforts, it is reasonable and necessary for the community to open up further credit to this state by supporting this resolution.
in writing. - after difficult negotiations, during which the council and parliament had long been at odds over the procedure for the new comitology, parliament voted today to grant macrofinancial assistance of eur 30 million to the kyrgyz republic to rebalance the country's balance of payments.
in writing. - the report deserves a favourable vote because it has supplemented the commission's proposal with important contributions, while respecting some important principles. the coordinated text is based on a sound approach based on the principle of freedom and subsidiarity: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, the creation of a european network of experts in the field of ethics, and the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of ethics. equally balanced is the approach in meeting the needs of patient safety and protection and the technological and production specificities of the sector, in relation to the role of research and development. thus, by allowing flexibility in responding to medical emergencies, in the discipline of manufacturers (starting with the declaration), in the definition of databases, in the system of certified bodies, in the reasonable terms of operation of the ethics committee, in the provision for the publication of studies in a way that favours informed and responsible demand and a corresponding open and excellent industrial culture: i think there's a very robust application of the reality principle here. it reinforces the priority objective of ensuring, within reasonable limits, the protection of consumers in the exercise of the right to health, in a spirit of transparency, awareness and responsibility.
in writing. − health is one of the most valuable assets for each individual and for the community as a whole, and is a determining factor for economic growth and development. in this context, the introduction of a regulatory framework to improve the safety of in vitro medical devices and the transparency of their use and marketing is an important step forward in raising the level of public health within the union. consumers and healthcare professionals will therefore benefit from this european regulation. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the health of all citizens of the european union must be protected through better regulation of ivd medical devices. the above-mentioned devices, which are intended for diagnostic use in the field of hiv, dna or hepatitis c, need more control to ensure that low-quality tests are not placed on the european market. the report by mr liese therefore aims to regulate the safety, quality and efficiency parameters of medical devices, thus making a step towards a clearer and more reliable legislative proposal.
in writing. − in vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivds) include a wide range of tests, including self-testing tests such as hiv tests, dna tests and blood glucose tests. we agree with mr liese's proposal to improve the regulation of these medical devices, since they are the progenitors of all therapies. unfortunately, the current directive does not guarantee that even low-quality ivd devices cannot be placed on the market, and this represents a potential damage to the health protection of all european citizens. the proposal aims to ensure maximum safety on the european market by improving the supervision and surveillance by notified bodies and by introducing a network of reference laboratories specialised in this field. finally, we agree that the european union should not restrict access to dna testing for patients but should offer appropriate genetic counselling to inform about the consequences before the test is carried out, and should accept the possibility of taking other measures in addition to those required by the regulation.
in writing. − the current regulatory framework for in vitro diagnostic medical devices has certainly proved its merits, but in recent years it has also been the subject of harsh criticism. in an internal market with 32 countries and constant scientific and technological progress, considerable differences in the interpretation and application of the rules have emerged, which undermines the main objectives of the directive, namely the safety and performance of dmds and their free movement. this review aims to overcome these shortcomings and differences and to further strengthen patient safety. we can only welcome it.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivds) is a text that will regulate the production and use of such devices to improve patient protection and increase patient confidence. a high level of health protection must be ensured by stimulating innovation and competition in the manufacturing sector. in line with the horizon 2020 programming framework, the report aims to simplify the three relevant directives into a single text.
in writing. − there is major concern over low quality ivd medical devices and hiv tests placed on the european market. research has shown that these tests gave many more false negative results than other hiv tests available, which means the tests said that there was no virus but in fact there was. there is a life-threatening risk for european citizens who take the test if there is a blood transfusion which involves a false negative hiv result. people infected with hiv who receive a false negative test may put their partners at risk as well. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal to deal with this matter.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion because ivds are medical devices intended for diagnostic use outside the human body (in vitro) but very important for monitoring, screening and preliminary diagnosis tests such as blood glucose kits, hiv tests and dna tests. the placing on the market of low-quality idvs can have serious health consequences, not so much for the preliminary diagnosis of false positives, but for the diagnosis of false negatives, which would lead to a misdiagnosis with serious consequences, for example a defective hiv test which could cause dramatic consequences if the patient in question is a blood donor. a new classification system will be adopted to ensure the highest possible safety (a-d, a=low risk device - d=high risk device). many of the companies producing such devices are smes, the regulation will take account of the ability of smes to take on new tasks, so keeping this situation in principle for risk classes a, b and c but including compliance when it comes to class d tests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted today on the proposal for a regulation on medical devices. this is an important issue and, in parallel with the proposal on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, it is proposed to review the regulatory framework, which was stable in the 1990s, in order to strengthen it and overcome the differences in interpretation in the various member states. following some health scandals as already mentioned it was considered important to intervene for the safety of patients. we have therefore voted in favour of a text which sets itself the primary objective of protecting the health of european patients, but also of defining better and more clearly the safeguards for their protection, of monitoring more rigorously and of laying down more explicitly the obligations of manufacturers and healthcare professionals. in short, a great deal of attention has been paid at the same time to the medical device sector in order to ensure and safeguard competitiveness, given its extreme importance in terms of innovation and employment for the european reality, and to patient protection and safety. the hope is that this will continue in the next negotiating phases.
madam president, how can we forget the incident of the defective implants in thousands of people? it is very serious that an accident of this magnitude could have happened. health is a fundamental right and must be a top priority, and i therefore agree that there is a need to tighten controls on medical equipment, to improve its quality and safety, precisely to restore patient confidence. this can only happen in a clear, secure and strengthened legal framework, which is: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers. all this in support of innovation and the competitiveness of a sector which employs over half a million people in europe and has an annual turnover of over eur 100 billion. but beware of the burden of procedures, especially at the expense of small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. − in recent years, the conformity assessment procedure for medical devices has shown significant gaps. a clear demonstration of this is the breast implant scandal that emerged in 2011, when it was revealed that over half a million women worldwide had received defective implants with serious risks to their health. such cases must not happen again. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve market surveillance, strengthen and rationalise the system of conformity assessment bodies (especially for products presenting the greatest risks), and ensure greater transparency and traceability.
in writing. − it is essential to review the european legislative framework for medical devices, as we believe that improvements are essential to protect public health and european patients. we therefore support this proposal for a report which aims to further strengthen the existing regulatory framework. medical devices that pose a potential risk to patients, such as those implanted in the body containing a medicinal substance or using human or animal tissues, need to be subjected to increasingly stringent procedures. the evaluation committee for these devices, composed of the best specialists, will be supported by a representation of both patients and experts from the european medicines agency. we also agree that the staff of the national authorities should be strengthened so that they are increasingly competent, that manufacturers of medicinal products should be able to apply to a notified body in a member state other than that of registration and that clinical trials should only be started after a positive evaluation by an independent ethics committee. finally, it will be essential to always have a considerate eye on the financial allocations in order to avoid unnecessary waste.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of in vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivds) such as blood tests, which are covered by directive 98/79/ec of the european parliament and of the council. the horizontal aspects common to both sectors have been harmonised, while the specific characteristics of each sector reasonably require separate legal acts. the current regulatory framework has proven its merits, but has also been the subject of strong criticism, in particular when the french health authorities found that a french manufacturer (poly implant prothèse, pip) had for several years apparently used industrial silicone instead of medical grade silicone for the production of breast implants, in violation of the authorisation issued by the notified body, harming the health of thousands of women worldwide. i am therefore glad that today a position has been taken against such practices in the future.
in writing. − the need to amend and modernise existing medical device regulation has been felt for years. i voted in favour of amending the directive because the scandals of recent years have threatened the safety and health of patients, who will now be guaranteed by this new regulation on product safety, production and safety of the various medical devices. in addition, with the advancement of technology, it was felt necessary to adapt the regulatory framework to new machinery, thus protecting and guaranteeing the patient and encouraging innovation and production of medical devices.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation on medical devices and active implantable medical devices attempts to regulate the standards of safety, quality and efficiency of medical devices which affect citizens of the european union. different types of medical devices currently on the market in the european union, such as syringes and blood sampling devices, should be required by law to be safe not only for patients but also for the healthcare professionals who handle them. since these points are specified under this proposed regulation, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the medical device sector employs over half a million people and has a market value of eur 100 billion. european companies operating in the sector are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises that are innovators in the sector, with more than ten thousand patent applications in 2012. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the legislation on medical devices needs to be modernised to ensure greater safety, transparency and traceability, but with some important amendments to the position contained in mrs roth-behrendt's report. in particular, i am against the introduction of a double level of certification for medical devices: a first check by the notified bodies and a second check by an evaluation committee. this would make the procedure too bureaucratic, extending it beyond the average life of the products themselves, with unsustainable costs for smes, which constitute the majority of companies in the sector. furthermore, as regards the reuse of single-use devices, i do not think that the costs of proper refurbishment are such as to justify the position that they would represent a significant saving for hospitals. i support the choice to introduce more controls on notified bodies and the possibility of clinical experts being involved in the evaluation.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to revise the existing regulatory framework for medical devices. this is a review of a legislative framework which has been in existence for 20 years and which was particularly necessary. in general, i agree with the commission's improvements in classifying medical devices into four classes according to the level of risk they pose to patients. in recent years, the conformity assessment procedure has shown significant shortcomings, such as lack of transparency, rapid approval and placing on the market of medical devices without adequate patient surveys and therefore sufficient clinical data, resulting in risks for patients. i believe that medical devices that are potentially more risky for patients should be subject to procedures that are more stringent than conformity assessment, and that a committee for the evaluation of medical devices (acmd) should be established to carry out case-by-case assessment where its members have found it necessary to request the examination of clinical data. the labelling of devices as single-use (or reusable) needs to be revised, as i believe that devices labelled as single-use should actually be single-use and that there should only be two options: single or reusable.
in writing. - i think it is right to refer to the regulation on shipments of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries in relation to ship recycling. there are many hazardous materials on board and it is right to consider that any ship from the eu that is to be demolished is itself a hazardous waste. in 2009, more than 90% of eu-flagged vessels were scrapped outside the oecd area, mainly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh) using the so-called 'sanding' method which has significant environmental and health impacts.' although i think the aim is laudable, i still have doubts about the potential effectiveness of the proposed measures, and i therefore believe that we should further review the commission's proposal, as there is a danger that it could legalise the export from the eu to developing countries of end-of-life vessels containing hazardous waste. i agree with the call made by some ngos that all vessels flying the flag of an eu state or owned by an eu state should be scrapped within the oecd countries.
in writing. - we recall a book published by oxford university more than ten years ago, which clearly outlined the links between the market economy, economic development, technological innovation in industrial applications and respect for the environment. i agree with the opening statement of principle: i would add that tolerating sandblasting, in addition to being an unacceptable risk to health and the environment, is not good for the economy in the medium term and slows down industrial development. we need to demonstrate leadership in helping operators to look beyond the immediate horizon. it is easy to imagine, for example, that the clearing of land would be progressively confined, by virtue of consensus and therefore positive codification, to the most unstable areas of the globe and those most prone to corruption, widespread illegality and weakness of the governing cadre. a world in which the risks are such as to compromise any effective margin. i appreciate the report's consideration of the capacity and value of industry also in non-oecd economies, already in the perspective of that integration, also in terms of production, which will necessarily follow the entry into force of the hong kong convention. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment. the idea of imposing on european shipowners costs which have no counterpart elsewhere is self-defeating. i agree with the environmental objectives, and i think that the more economically advanced countries should set a good example, but self-harm is another story. i therefore welcome the direction taken by this dossier after the rapporteur's amendments, because the negotiations within parliament before and those with the council have allowed a good balance to be struck.
in writing. − it is necessary to ensure that the rules are respected and that companies that work seriously are protected. unfortunately, most eu-flagged vessels are scrapped outside the oecd area using the 'sandblasting' method. this practice poses serious risks to workers' health and the environment, but it helps to keep costs down. i think the commission's proposal to establish a european list of recycling plants worldwide that meet certain standards is correct. the creation of a fund to reward compliant installations, a mandatory recycling plan for all eu ships over 20 years old, more explicit requirements for recycling facilities, regular checks and inspections of installations and the provision of criminal penalties for certain infringements are also measures that will make european regulatory intervention more effective.
in writing. − attention to environmental problems and the resulting damage to the ecosystem and human health have always been topics on the european parliament's agenda. unfortunately, despite the 'amendment to the ban' provided for by the basel convention, several areas of south asia have become, over the years, a dumping ground for old ships. that is why we are supporting today mr schlyter's proposal, which makes essential changes to the commission's earlier proposal in order to deal with this environmental emergency. it is therefore very important to introduce a financing mechanism for environmentally sound ship recycling. ships registered in the european union will have to be dismantled in recycling facilities approved by the european union itself, which will have to meet specific requirements and be subject to regular inspections. this will limit the dispersion of hazardous materials and will be beneficial for both man and the environment. in addition, both community and non-community vessels will have to produce an inventory of dangerous materials when entering ports in the european union. finally, we fully agree on the inclusion of criminal sanctions for illegal waste shipment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr carl schlyter on the very topical subject of ship recycling. the eu regulation on shipment of waste prohibits the transfer of hazardous waste from european countries to non-oecd countries. the european commission has found that 90% of vessels from the european union are scrapped in south asian areas. such activity has a negative impact on both the environment and human health. the rapporteur included among his acceptable proposals a tightening of criminal sanctions for breaches of the legislation in this area. he therefore proposed that the penalties provided for in directive 2008/99/ec should apply not only to cases of illegal waste shipment but also to cases of improper recycling.
in writing. the ship-breaking and salvage industry is a formidable and growing business: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. some countries such as india, bangladesh and pakistan have become the preferred destination for the demolition of european ships, because in these places there is no respect for environmental rules or for workers' rights, and this obviously represents a significant, if unfortunate, cost reduction. the ships to be scrapped are truly special and often very dangerous waste: it goes without saying that there are some minimum rules to be followed. i wonder, however, how it is possible that no italian port is suitable for handling the wreck of the concordia, which is likely to end up in some turkish port. for piombino, it could be vital to start from the recovery of this ship to relaunch perhaps even in this type of business, on which it would really be worth investing, to have other possibilities in the future, with considerable repercussions in economic and employment terms.
in writing. − some inappropriate and environmentally harmful practices in ship demolition are still a matter of serious concern. at the end of their useful life, most large merchant ships for maritime navigation are dismantled in plants using methods that have a significant impact on the environment and health. under the waste shipment regulation, ships flying the flag of an eu country and intended for scrapping are classified as hazardous waste because they contain hazardous substances. as such, they may only be demolished in oecd countries. however, this regulation is almost always circumvented by eu-flagged vessels, rendering international standards and union legislation ineffective. it is therefore high time that this parliament took a firm stand on the issue of sustainable ship disposal and recycling.
in writing. − the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries is prohibited by the eu waste shipment regulation, which implements the ‘ban amendmentʼ at european level. however, more than 90 % of eu-flagged ships were indeed dismantled outside the oecd, mostly in southern asia, with significant environmental and health impacts, as estimated by the commission in 2009. the negative impacts of the recycling of eu-flagged ships, especially in southern asia, need to be reduced therefore without creating unnecessary economic burdens. currently, shipowners dispose of their ships at sites with the lowest standards because they pay the highest price. to deal with this problem, the introduction of a finance mechanism is proposed to finance environmentally sound ship recycling; i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session this morning, approved the report by mr schlyter on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on ship recycling. ending the widespread practice of scrapping community-flagged vessels off the coasts of developing countries is a goal of crucial importance for workers' health, safety and the environment. in future, eu-registered ships will have to be dismantled in eu-approved permanent recycling facilities, which will have to respect the environment and meet certain safety requirements. in addition, community and non-community vessels will have to produce an inventory of hazardous materials on entry into union ports, for future treatment in authorised recycling facilities. i can only express my favourable opinion of a report which does not impose an unnecessary economic burden on italy and, more importantly, which prohibits the practice of demolishing ships which offends human dignity and destroys the surrounding environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour because any ship from the eu that is to be scrapped is a hazardous waste and therefore must be legally scrapped only in oecd countries at the moment. unlike in recent years, they are being brought as close as possible to a beach at high tide and are usually dumped on muddy expanses in the intercoastal zone of non-oecd countries, which dispose of the materials incorrectly and pollute the environment. the current legislation on ship specifications is very inadequate, it is difficult to determine when a ship becomes waste. the proposal for a regulation on ship recycling aims to significantly reduce the negative effects of recycling eu-flagged ships without imposing unnecessary economic burdens. the commission proposes to establish a european list of recycling facilities worldwide to check whether they meet certain standards. ships flying the flag of an eu country are no longer covered by the waste shipment regulation but must be allowed to be scrapped at the facilities on the list.
in writing. the sógor report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council deals with the subject of european demographic statistics and calls for the creation of a common framework for the systematic production of population data. as i believe that the 'common framework' drawn up by the european institutions will serve to justify new policies in favour of immigration and austerity, i have decided not to support this text with my vote.
in writing. − in a world where the weight and demographic structure of countries is increasingly a determining factor in global market competitiveness and the rise of the asian demographic giants - notably china and india - poses major challenges for the most advanced economies, europe needs a common framework for the production of harmonised and comparable demographic statistics. knowledge of and availability of statistical data is a key element of competitiveness in the current 'information age': the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is essential for the development of targeted economic and social policies and crucial for guiding business and investment choices. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which aims at harmonizing and developing a better system for producing demographic statistics at european level.
in writing. the content of the report concerns the centralisation of the management of demographic data to be included in the eu's policy project. i am voting against this text, because the political manipulation of eu population statistics is often used to justify the opening of borders because of an alleged shortage of labour: i therefore find it inappropriate to justify these new pro-immigration policies.
in writing. - demographic change is a reality that the european union cannot afford to ignore, not least because it is an aspect that must be taken into account when formulating public policies. demographic statistics are therefore crucial for making proper comparisons and operational choices. the commission has proposed the creation of a common framework for the production of european demographic statistics, in order to regulate the collection, compilation and transmission of population statistics. the purpose of the proposal, as the rapporteur for the empl committee notes, is to guide the states in the production of statistics which are harmonised at european level and thus comparable. the amendments adopted in the empl committee and voted by parliament essentially concern the provision of a reference to the protection of personal data and the requirement to transmit regional demographic statistics to eurostat.
in writing. - at the strasbourg plenary session, we welcomed the report on the proposal for a regulation on european demographic statistics. we agree with the rapporteur, mr sógor, that demographic change has a significant impact on the regions and, as there are considerable differences between the member states, it would be useful to be able to compare future developments. the need is to define a common framework of demographic statistics to be transmitted to eurostat, with the aim of creating a harmonious and comprehensive system, which can highlight changes and differences within the countries of the european union. only with these statistics will it be possible in future to compare, draw conclusions and monitor growth within and between member states. it should also be stressed that the importance of the protection of personal data will not be overlooked.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr sógor's report on european demographic statistics, because i understood the importance of creating, in a common framework, a tool for publicly displaying demographic statistics on the population. the aim is to ensure that accurate, reliable and comparable data are collected. this is important because it serves to address social, economic and territorial problems in a shared way, while supporting the union's decision-making process.
in writing. the subject of the present proposal voted on today is a regulation on demographic statistics, which aims to regulate the harmonization and transmission of data on population and civil status events in relation to population. the size of the population will be even more important when, under article 16 (4) of the treaty on european union, from 1 november 2014 a qualified majority will be defined as at least 55% of the members of the council, with a minimum of 15 member states representing at least 65% of the eu population ('double majority'). in a union which is becoming more and more important in the daily lives of its citizens, the updating of the framework of european demographic statistics is therefore of fundamental importance.
in writing. − the european continent is ageing rapidly, society is not providing enough for families and gives young people the feeling that having children is a problem. we need solutions to the demographic challenge we are already facing, solutions that we can take together as the european union, and the first step is to compare the demographic statistics of each country and harmonize them throughout europe. only if statistics are available can comparisons be made, conclusions drawn and choices made.
in writing. - i regret that i cannot express my frank support for the report, which contains many points of agreement on the integrity of the human person, respect for life and the right to health. i particularly agree with paragraphs 9, 10, 19, 25, 56 to 63 on hiv prevention. the continuing economic crisis threatens in many respects the fundamental rights of the most vulnerable and certainly this area, interwoven with sensitive open issues of a cultural and social nature, deserves specific attention from the institutions, within a shared and not ideological approach. unfortunately, the report proposes views and measures in other parts of the report which remain controversial, on which the states and public opinion appear divided, and which, in ambivalent if not palindromic language, suggest a risk of a heterogeneity of aims. i am referring, for example, to the right to conscientious objection in religious hospitals, to the right to an education of young people linked to christian values, to the right to speak out in favour of the family of natural right, which in my view should be respected and preserved, within the framework of freedom of thought and conscience, and on which some indications appear premature if not divisive.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i believe that people should have the right to lead a responsible, satisfactory and safe sex life and that they should have the ability to reproduce and the freedom to decide whether, when and how often to do so, implying the right of men and women to be informed and to have access, on the basis of personal choice, to safe, effective and affordable methods of fertility regulation. the right to access adequate health services that allow women to experience pregnancy and childbirth safely and give couples the best chance of having a healthy newborn. sexual health is to be experienced as "a state of physical, emotional, mental and social well-being. i also believe that boys should receive proper sex education from adolescence, first of all to reduce unwanted pregnancies, but most importantly to avoid sexually transmitted infections through real knowledge of sexuality. such education must be provided by professionals working within school structures.
in writing. − i strongly support this report because after many years, we have finally been given the opportunity to discuss extensively and condemn the human right violations in western sahara. this report is really thorough in stressing the sahrawiʼs right to self-determination and the need to organise a referendum. unfortunately we lost an opportunity to highlight the importance of not re-instituting a fisheries agreement with morocco while the controversy over the exploitation of western saharaʼs natural resources remains unresolved. in fact, to be consistent with our human right policies we should have voted for the amendment signed by almost 100 meps, asking the commission to submit clear proposals on how such an agreement could be implemented in a manner acceptable to all parties concerned. unfortunately, this time, and at the cost of only a few votes, human rights were overcome by economic interests.
in writing. - political instability, extreme poverty, conflict, food insecurity and borders make the sahel one of the most underdeveloped regions on earth. the chronic and pervasive problems in the region have a very serious impact on human rights, and women and their children often pay the highest price. not only that. as the crisis in mali demonstrates, political instability, ethnic divisions and extreme poverty are often the ideal habitat for the establishment of criminal networks of islamic radicalism, whose spread is accompanied by abuse, violence and illicit trafficking in drugs, weapons and human beings. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which renews the eu's commitment to the sahel in promoting human rights and in particular emphasizes the affirmation of the role of women in the development and peace-making of the region. my vote in favour is accompanied by the hope that the award of the 2012 nobel peace prize to the european union will not only be seen as recognition of past achievements, but also as an exhortation for the eu to maintain its high level of commitment to the promotion and protection of human rights globally. to that end, my political commitment will never be lacking.
in writing. - systemic poverty, discrimination against women, extremism, slavery, human trafficking, the use of child soldiers, the trafficking of arms and drugs, hunger and malnutrition, corruption and institutional fragility are, unfortunately, the chronic problems of the sahel. this situation has been aggravated by the recent conflict in mali, which has led to a rise in violence, especially against women and children. it is important to complement the eu strategy adopted in 2011 for the security of the area with a stronger focus on human rights and support for the rule of law. the development of development policies aimed at alleviating the food crisis, increasing drought resilience and integrating women more fully into the economic system must be given top priority: the commission is also aware of the fact that the sahel region is facing a serious crisis.
in writing. − the sahel is one of the poorest regions in the world and is currently facing serious human rights problems due to political instability, poverty and border insecurity. we fully agree with mr tannock when he says that the establishment of democracy, peace and good governance is a fundamental challenge for this region. civil wars and ethnic conflicts have serious consequences for the population (especially women and children). the escape and the setting up of refugee camps, in poor hygienic conditions, then become possible foci of diseases that are difficult to contain. in addition, the presence of terrorist groups within the sahel region and its status as a transit zone for drug trafficking result in great instability and insecurity, resulting in hostage-taking and violent attacks. we are firmly convinced that human rights must always be considered inviolable, and we intend to encourage all those reforms concerning the establishment of security, justice and fundamental rights officials, in order to create better living conditions for all.
in writing. - in the light of the deep concern about the human rights situation in the sahel region, i support the report by mr tannock. as the world's leading aid donor to the sahel region, eu support is crucial. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase, hire or rental of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of furniture, furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, including furniture, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, and of furniture, furniture and appliances, and of furniture, furniture and appliances, including furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture, furniture and appliances, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, and furniture, as well as furniture, furniture and appliances, for the following items: as vice-president of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i would like to stress that women are often discriminated against in their work in the struggle for peace, and i welcome the fact that the rapporteur emphasizes the centrality of their role in the armistice negotiations. finally, i would like to reiterate my support for full respect for human rights and self-determination for the peoples of this region.
in writing. - i congratulate the authors of this resolution. the sahel is one of the poorest regions in the world, facing serious problems in terms of human rights, the rule of law, security and armed conflict, and economic and social development. the extreme poverty in the region is reflected in the 2012 united nations human development index, which ranks niger, chad, burkina faso and mali among the six least developed countries in the world. the text we voted on today highlights in particular the human rights situation in the sahel, which has received greater international attention following the armed conflict in mali and the armed intervention by french, african and un forces. it is clear that this conflict has created specific problems in mali, exacerbating the structural problems already present in the country and in other areas of the region such as libya. we must remain vigilant, in particular, against organised crime, slavery and human trafficking, arms and drug trafficking, jihadist extremism and radicalisation, fragile governance and institutional corruption, as well as systemic and debilitating poverty, child soldiers and discrimination against women.
in writing. − conflicts in the sahel region, which led to increased number of refugees, have attracted our concern, especially since there are signs that the region is likely to suffer from a severe food and nutrition crisis this year. europe should take responsibility for providing adequate humanitarian aid funding for the region, and should urge the local and regional authorities in the region to better ensure the safety of refugees, displaced persons and the most vulnerable groups. the eu should also call on the international community to make contributions as well. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i express my deep concern at the human rights situation in the sahel region, which is aggravated by political, social, economic and environmental crises. given the reports of serious human rights violations in the northern part of the country, where the crimes include mass rape, mutilation and torture, i believe that the current human rights challenges in the sahel region cannot be separated from a general crisis of governance that includes widespread corruption in the public sector, giving rise to a general delegitimization of the institutions. only by investing in development aid can security be restored in the region, which is why i welcome the lines of action of the european union's sahel strategy, which include support for and promotion of good governance and the resolution of internal conflicts; however, i believe that human rights, the rule of law, support for democracy, good economic governance and robust anti-corruption measures have not yet been satisfactorily integrated into the core of the strategy as essential elements to support the development-security nexus; i call on the eu institutions to work together in the near future to review the strategy and to put forward concrete proposals.
in writing. − the sahel region has gained international visibility due to the armed conflict in mali, the increase in international organised crime and terrorism. for these reasons, mr tannock's report calls for a series of legal reforms to help restore the rule of law and create more favourable conditions for respect for human rights.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it acknowledges that an empowered civil society represents a crucial and integral component of any democracy. for this reason the eu should have a strong political commitment to promoting an enabling environment for civil society organisations at national level as well as at regional and international levels. in this resolution we welcome the recent policy developments focused on a more ambitious partnership with local authorities and civil society organisations, founded on a human rights-based approach which includes economic, social and cultural rights.
in writing. − the european commission, in a recent communication, has defined the new framework for the european union's cooperation with civil society organisations and local authorities. in a changing global context characterised by significant economic, political and social challenges, i believe the union should focus more on creating accountable, transparent and inclusive relationships between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities in order to achieve optimal outcomes in terms of sustainable development. i welcome the commission's proposal and in particular the rules for the preparation of roadmaps for engagement with civil society organisations so that they are involved, in a timely and meaningful way, in the development and definition of priority issues. roadmaps are a valuable tool for ensuring coherence and synergy between the various areas of interest in the european union's external relations. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to encourage the exchange of knowledge between local authorities in the member states in the field of development cooperation practices in order to close the potential gap in terms of competence.
in writing. − the report, in its variety of calls and indications, is part of a vision of participation, accountability and democratic control, enhancing intermediate bodies and promoting the values of pluralism and civic engagement; i therefore vote in favour. i would like to draw particular attention to points 10, 25, 26, 36, 37 and 40, which i agree with, having witnessed effective cooperation between decentralized bodies which ensure accountability and proper spending. equally worthy are the recommendations on the need to guard against the backsliding of the active participation of citizens, in relation to local authorities, in the decision-making process shaping systems of mixed territorial governance: there is a high risk of marginalisation due to the fallout from the crisis. the theme of fragile states deserves a separate reflection: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
in writing. - democracy is the best form of government: it's not always efficient, but it ensures that people decide what they want for themselves, and not by the criteria imposed by others. for this reason, the eu has my full support in seeking to promote it outside its territory, and this own-initiative report is exactly in this vein, seeking to achieve this objective in practice. trying to rely on civil society organisations and/or particularly trustworthy and transparent local institutions is part of a wider strategy that i share. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the european parliament can only share this strategy, and call on member states to ensure that civil society organisations and local authorities have the opportunity to act as controllers of government policies, while also playing an active role in the policy formulation and implementation processes. the european institutions must help create a favourable environment for the establishment of transparent and inclusive relations between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities, especially in countries where democratic institutions are going through a period of fragility.
in writing. − cooperation between local authorities and civil society organisations is an essential element in ensuring the 'democratic ownership' of development policy. we therefore agree that the european union should make a greater commitment to sustainable development, because it is vital to put citizens at the centre of policies to improve the quality of life. in order to make this policy possible, it will be essential not only to improve the complementarity between thematic and geographical programmes but, above all, to pay greater attention to the way in which funding is distributed, so as to reach a wider portion of civil society organisations and local authorities. the greatest possible territorial development and the strengthening of democracy will require encouraging cooperation and knowledge between local authorities in the new and old member states, because it is only through the transfer of skills and good practice that the gap that still exists today can be closed.
in writing. − article 208 tfeu is very clear in its wording and states that the main objective of the union's development policy is to reduce and, in the long term, eradicate poverty, as defined in the european consensus on development. the union has a strong political commitment to promoting a favourable environment for civil society organisations (csos) at national, regional and international level, and recognises that an emancipated civil society, in its diversity, is an important factor in itself, an essential and integral part of any democracy. democratic ownership also includes csos, local authorities and parliaments, which play key roles in connecting citizens and ensuring large-scale development programmes in countries. developing responsible, human rights-based relations offers a unique opportunity for the eu, including citizens, local authorities and the private sector, to establish sustainable partnerships with developing countries. our vote today is an invitation to the commission and the european external action service to develop guidelines and implementation plans for a human rights-based approach to the union's development cooperation, in cooperation with csos, and to promote the implementation of the european union guidelines on human rights defenders.
in writing. − creating more accountable, transparent, human-rights based and inclusive relations is consistent with the eu’s long-term strategy to achieve more sustainable development outcomes. it is thus necessary to act to promote ‘partnership for accountability’ between csos, parliaments and courts of auditors. according to the report, the eu should support a monitoring mechanism in terms of enabling environment, particularly on policy and regulatory provisions, as well as multi-stakeholder dialogues. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the report by mr creţu on local authorities and civil society was voted on in plenary today. we know that in september 2012 the commission published the communication 'the roots of democracy and sustainable development, europe's engagement with civil society in external relations' and in may 2013 the communication 'empowering local authorities in partner countries for better governance and more tangible development outcomes', which set out the new framework for the union's cooperation with civil society organisations and local authorities in a changing global context, characterised by significant economic, political and social challenges. i agree with the rapporteur that the union must increasingly work towards responsible, transparent and democratically-based relations between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities in order to achieve better results in terms of sustainable development. to achieve this, the union should pay particular attention to strengthening capacity building for local authorities and civil society organisations, especially in fragile states, their partnership and cooperation with the eu.
in writing. − the principle of democratic ownership puts citizens at the centre of development, with governments ensuring that civil society organisations have the space to act. democratic ownership also promotes the active role of civil society and local authorities in policy-making and implementation processes, and the eu must increasingly engage in responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relationships between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities in order to achieve better outcomes in terms of sustainable development. i therefore vote in favour of the eu promoting a favourable environment by paying particular attention to strengthening capacity building for local authorities and civil society organisations in fragile states, their partnership and cooperation with the eu in the development of democracy.
in writing. − following the busan conference, the international community has expressed a strong need to move from a limited aid effectiveness programme to a broader development effectiveness programme. civil society organisations and local authorities called for a systematic rights-based approach to development and for 'democratic ownership' of development policy. the principle of democratic ownership puts citizens at the centre of development, with governments ensuring that civil society organisations have the space to act and to hold governments to account for their policies. democratic ownership also promotes the active role of civil society and local authorities in policy-making and implementation processes. the rapporteur believes that the union must increasingly commit itself to creating responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations between partner governments, civil society organisations and local authorities in order to achieve better results in terms of sustainable development: the eu should therefore give priority to initiatives to promote 'accountability partnerships' at national level between civil society organisations, parliaments and courts of auditors.
madam president, i supported mrs neveďalová's report because i think it is a good one and a great opportunity to rethink education in order to respond to one of the causes of the worrying increase in youth unemployment. what happens today in times of crisis? we are faced with a europe with some 1 300 000 unfilled jobs and, on the other hand, with a reality such as my own country, italy, where 40 per cent of the unemployed are young people. it is nonsense, it is a contradiction, two questions do not meet, whereas they should. one of the problems? the education system that's broken. it is not enough to increase spending, we must improve the ability to achieve results. the report we are voting on today is based on three strategic objectives which i think i can fully share: i have therefore supported the work of the committee.
madam president, there are almost six million young people under 25 in europe who are unemployed. it is therefore crucial to focus on quality education linked to the real needs of the world of work. we must not spend more on training, but we must spend better. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's education and training system. it is important to promote the exchange of good practices and models that have led to positive results in terms of reducing school drop-out rates, reintegration into the education system, effective transition from education to work, reducing youth unemployment rates, access to education and employment for disadvantaged groups. i would like to conclude by saying that the maximum involvement and consultation of youth organisations is essential.
in writing. − the persisting economic crisis and austerity measures in several member states are putting the lives of eu citizens under heavy pressure due to unemployment, social exclusion and poverty. in particular, this austerity policy is having a direct adverse impact on young peoples’ prospects of gaining access to and remaining in education and employment. for this reason with this text we ask member states to uphold the right of all persons, whatever their economic circumstances, to free and universal high-quality education. we call too on the member states to make public expenditure and investment in education, training, and research and innovation a priority. indeed, investing in these areas is essential for the economic recovery and global competitiveness of the union and for progress to be made in achieving the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. - in the current situation of economic instability, one of the main challenges is the fight against unemployment. in march 2013, unemployment in europe among young people up to 25 years old reached a worrying level: the rate is 23.5%. however, at the same time, it was not possible to cover over 2 million vacancies. the problematic situation of the labour market is evident, in that the labour supply provided by training establishments does not meet the needs of an open and dynamic market. the report proposes to provide the right skills for employment, improve basic literacy and strengthen transversal and entrepreneurial skills. i believe that the efficiency of teaching and learning can be improved also by better recognition of skills and qualifications in europe. this would help to promote mobility and, consequently, reduce unemployment. in recent years, training institutions have made great efforts: between 1980 and 2005, almost all oecd countries increased their education spending substantially, but only a few of them showed a significant improvement in outcomes. therefore, systemic changes are needed to improve the quality of our schools without, at the same time, imposing new burdens.
in writing. - the own-initiative report by mrs neveďalová is the european parliament's contribution to public education policies. i voted against the text because it contains proposals which, although agreeable, are no longer relevant.
in writing. - i strongly support the report, which deals with the key issues of our time and contains recommendations and suggestions which i share. it is essential to prevent a spiral of impoverishment of human capital and hence of productivity, in which factors such as low levels of education, inadequate training systems, insufficient attention to the dynamics of labour demand and the developments in production technologies are maintained and fed by one another. one of the effects of this process is, in the end, to deprive the most vulnerable young people of the opportunities to which they are entitled and to frustrate important investments by states in training systems. i would particularly like to support the recommendations in paragraphs 3 and 17 and the core, well articulated in paragraphs 22 to 30. one final note: the imbalances in the union's labour market, with dramatic youth unemployment rates in some countries and a supply of work that does not meet demand in others, are also likely to be due to a cultural difficulty towards training modes, such as partnerships with the private sector or continuing training, which are the key to the future, especially in anticipation of the adjustments of social security systems to the increase in life expectancy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it states a principle which i also supported in the proposal for a report on industrial policy, for which i was the shadow rapporteur: the education system must play its part in the modernization of the entire manufacturing sector. in a rapidly changing world, the skills needed to meet new challenges must necessarily come from the education system, which in turn must focus on teaching both specific skills and general skills to be exploited in circumstances that may change over the course of an individual's life.
in writing. the report deals with the subject of public education policies. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of young people in the european union. the solutions proposed, however, have been the same for ten years. although the report contains elements that are shared, such as the creation of partnerships between universities and enterprises to establish training courses geared to the labour market, i believe that the proposal is late and lacks innovation. i shall abstain on the above.
in writing. the theme is of great relevance: education and the development of new skills are key to achieving innovation and economic growth in the long term and enabling individuals to secure a source of income and livelihood, as well as to meet social and personal fulfilment needs. at a time of deep crisis, the recovery of the european economy also passes through here. identifying the right skills to face today's reality is not easy but it is a necessary step, given the imbalance between the skills acquired and those actually required in the world of work. i am thinking of my home town of padua and the importance of partnerships between universities, businesses, trade associations, social services and regional bodies in creating new jobs. learning in the field, together with a better lifelong learning strategy, are the main ways of promoting the adaptation of the current training system, in order to facilitate the transition from study to work for young people and at the same time the retraining of workers who have already acquired a certain type of professionalism.
in writing. - we have today, in plenary, welcomed the report by mrs neveďalová on education. unfortunately, one of the scourges of the current economic instability is unemployment, which reached a peak of 23.5% among young people up to 25 years of age in march 2013. the main problem at present is that training pathways fail to promote learning models that meet the demands of the market, which is always looking for more skills. the reading of this negative picture also leads, as a natural consequence, to the impossibility of retraining for adults. we support the objectives proposed, which are intended to deal with this discomfort, which undermines the foundations of human dignity. the first fundamental step must be to update the outdated education systems which are creating a gap between training institutions and the current labour market. the updating of the teaching staff will also be very important in order to ensure that education is always up to date. finally, it highlights the need to broaden the scope of education and training policies, primarily through improving the study of foreign languages.
in writing. − this report focuses on the development of valuable skills for learners. the possibility of taking part in traineeships as a transition from school to work plays a key role in the fight against unemployment. it is, in fact, the key to innovation and economic growth. i voted in favour because i am convinced of the value of including the younger generation in a lifelong learning perspective. the report highlights that formal and informal training, the work of youth organisations, quality traineeships, apprenticeships and voluntary work must be recognised as the first link between the world of study and the world of work.
in writing. - a good education is often essential for success in life: it is a means of training the individual and enabling him to play a role in society. it is undeniable that the current model of education needs to be revised, also in the light of the radical changes that have taken place in the world in recent years; for example, language skills have become an indispensable factor, especially if one wishes to exploit opportunities outside one's own country. the european union can do a lot in this area, for example by continuing to strongly support a programme such as erasmus which has certainly been a great success so far: i have therefore also insisted in the committee on budgets that adequate resources be made available for this purpose. there is, however, one problem that still needs to be solved, and which the current crisis has added to: full and equal access to education for all, especially the economically most disadvantaged. the study can be an opportunity for redemption and social advancement for deserving individuals, who must therefore have all the possibilities to be able to fully realize their dreams and aspirations, beyond the family income.
in writing. - there is an educational emergency in this union. in the text voted today we wanted to make it clear that one of the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the rate of early school leaving to below 10% and to increase the proportion of young people with a higher education diploma or adequate vocational training to at least 40%. in march 2013, the unemployment rate for young people up to 25 years old in the eu was 23.5% and, at the same time, paradoxically, it was not possible to cover over two million vacant jobs! we therefore welcome the commission's communication and in particular its emphasis on tackling youth unemployment through investment in skills, the call to modernise higher education systems, as well as the promotion of excellent vocational education and training (vet), on-the-job learning and the involvement of the social partners in their design. we also welcome measures to address the shortage of highly qualified teachers and trainers, such as increased effectiveness in recruitment, retention and vocational support. the fundamental mission of education, we recall, is to prepare individuals for life and to make them active citizens in increasingly complex societies.
in writing. − the education system needs to be modernised and adapted to a long-term vision of society. the use of computers, the internet and technology in such a globalised world cannot but call to mind the need to rethink education by adapting it to the demands of a constantly changing society. employment and a good quality of life can only be guaranteed if we have the right cultural background, and education is the source of this because it guarantees, protects and stimulates personal and social growth. we have to get out of the crisis, and one of the ways is to rethink education by adapting it to the demands of the labour market.
in writing. − in line with the europe 2020 strategy – namely to realise smart, inclusive and green growth and to create a strong and innovative european union – more funding should be allocated to promoting work-based learning for eu citizens in order to facilitate their transition from school to work, and informal learning, the work of youth organisations, good quality internships, apprenticeships and volunteering should also be recognised. improving studentsʼ competences, such as critical thinking, team working, problem solving, communication, self-confidence and leadership gained through working, better prepares them not only for their professional lives but also for their social and individual lives therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal to urge member states to increase their level of investment in quality education and training.
in writing. − to promote mobility and to help reduce unemployment, it is essential to improve the efficiency of teaching and learning through better recognition of skills and qualifications in europe, to promote the use of open educational resources and new technologies in order to increase access to teaching materials and to increase student participation. teachers must have access to adequate training to update their skills. in the current situation of economic instability, in europe and globally, one of the main challenges is unemployment and the ability of people to secure their livelihoods. the fight against unemployment must be our main objective and it is in this context that education and training play a key role. these actions must concern not only students and young people entering the labour market but also other people who want to improve their situation. the main idea of my explanation of vote is not only to identify the main challenges and skills needed by students and people entering the labour market, but also to find solutions on how to maintain the essential condition of their individual and economic independence.
in writing. - with great realism, without succumbing to a certain enthusiasm for hasty decisions in the past, the rapporteur starts from a careful recognition of the general picture (as set out in point 16), of the different situations in the candidate countries and of the not entirely satisfactory effectiveness of commitment and refinement of expenditure in relation to the institutional objectives of ipa programmes. we would do well not to underestimate the considerations on the applicability of such a narrow window for pre-accession projects, considering that we are faced with difficulties that often have far-reaching and robust cultural roots. it is right that the commission is demanding on the issues of judicial reform and the fight against corruption: as noted in the hearings leading up to the report on organised crime, there are open problems and difficult challenges which, if not addressed in time, could put the union's systems under stress and thus undermine the culture of european integration, including by fostering demagogic exploitation. the so-called new approach is likely to maintain the course and accelerate processes of institutional, legal and cultural convergence: the country-by-country review also provides an overall picture of progress towards the accession objectives. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − the fight against corruption and organised crime is one of the most important priorities for all 'candidate' or 'potential candidate' countries for accession to the european union. promoting the rule of law and democracy in these countries is not only the key to ensuring rapid convergence towards their accession, but also means creating a context of greater stability and security around the european union, to the direct benefit of all its citizens. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal which calls on the commission to allocate, under pre-accession financial assistance, a larger amount of funds than at present for the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption in those countries which are making the difficult journey towards accession to the european union. it also remains a priority to ensure that the commission constantly monitors the implementation of the funded projects and currencies, by collecting and regularly publishing data and analyses, their impact in terms of effectiveness in order to ensure maximum transparency to union citizens in this regard.
in writing. - a modern and efficient justice system is an essential requirement. the european commission has rightly promoted an approach which envisages addressing the problems of the judicial system and internal politics of the candidate countries for accession to the union from the initial stage of the accession process. however, the resources foreseen in the pre-accession programmes should be allocated in accordance with this indication, with greater investment in the reform of the judicial systems and the fight against corruption. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs macovei's report because it rightly highlights the lack of adjustment of the pre-accession fund. as we all know, the fight against corruption and the evaluation of judicial systems are fundamental prerequisites for countries aiming to join the eu and therefore providing adequate financial resources to civil society organisations carrying out these tasks is of paramount importance. as regards the evaluation of aid, as the report argues, it is useful, in the interests of the principle of transparency, to make public the database on all projects financed under the pre-accession aid programmes.
in writing. - we met today in plenary to approve new measures to manage the budget of european union funds in the areas of the judicial system and the fight against corruption in the candidate and potential candidate countries. the fight against corruption and organised crime is a top priority for all countries wishing to achieve their european perspective. the rule of law is the cornerstone of democratic government and the judiciary is tasked with protecting and promoting fundamental rights and fighting corruption in order to strengthen democracy itself. the need for a higher level of funding therefore arises because predictable and adequate funding is a key prerequisite for ensuring sustainable reforms of the justice system. it should also be borne in mind that cooperation on reform of these systems and the fight against corruption will have to take place both at political level through structured and country-specific dialogues and on the rule of law and the judicial system by formalising closer cooperation and the exchange of good practice with the candidate and potential candidate countries.
in writing. − since 2001, eu pre-accession assistance to turkey in the field of judicial reform has financed 30 projects for an amount of eur 128 938 935, of which eur 66 645 666 has been disbursed as at 31 december 2012; nine projects have been completed, 11 are in progress and 10 are to be launched. the commission initiated a recovery procedure in february 2012 in respect of two completed projects in turkey, namely the construction of three courts of appeal in ankara, erzurum and diyarbakır and support for the establishment of courts of appeal in turkey. in april 2012, eur 21 767 205,29 was recovered, corresponding to the payments made by the commission for both projects. however, the commission's decision to proceed with full recovery was contested by the external evaluators. we therefore invite the commission to provide detailed information on this issue by december 2013 and to explain the reasons for the choice of a full recovery, given that the projects have now been completed.
in writing. − corruption is a serious threat in terms of costs to the eu economy. not only does it affect the tax revenues of the member states and the eu as a whole, but it also imposes a cost to business estimated at more than eur 670 billion annually. fighting corruption is significant for the safety of european consumers, free and fair competition, an undistorted lawful business cycle, and the fundamental democratic principles on which the eu and its member states are based. since funding is necessary to reform the judicial system to fight corruption better, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − one of the eu's top priorities is the implementation of the rule of law, with particular attention to judicial reform, and the fight against corruption and organised crime. the funds that europe provides to the candidate countries or potential candidates are of vital importance, not only for the full establishment of democracy in the same countries, but also to avoid undermining the social and democratic fabric of europe as a whole. i am voting in favour of these measures because they are the means of achieving more sustainable results in improving the preparation of these countries for accession and, where possible, by promoting the sectoral approach in order to support the wide-ranging reform strategies of the beneficiary countries.
in writing. - the report by mr macovei stresses the need for better planning and financing of the fight against corruption, calling on the commission to develop a long-term strategy on union funding for civil society organisations. as regards the evaluation of aid, i share the rapporteur's view that it is useful to make public the data on all projects financed under pre-accession aid programmes.
in writing. − access to safe healthcare is a fundamental right of citizens. in a context of ageing populations and the development of antimicrobial resistance, patient safety must be at the forefront of the political agenda of the european union as well as at national and local level. the health sector is a high-risk sector because adverse events related to healthcare can result in serious injury or, in extreme cases, death of patients. it is estimated that between 30 and 40% of adverse events associated with healthcare could be prevented; these events include healthcare-associated infections, which affect as many as 3,2 million citizens each year in the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that the culture of patient safety must be strengthened, and in particular also through the promotion of education/training of healthcare professionals in patient safety and the development of research in this field. some of the actions recommended by the council to improve patient safety in the member states have so far been implemented by only a limited number of countries. i therefore call the commission's attention to the need to monitor the member states' implementation of these recommendations.
in writing. the rapporteur is tackling a very topical issue which is going to weigh increasingly heavily on our health and welfare systems. the situation is likely to improve as a result of the development of techniques, industrial applications and medical protocols, but new challenges are looming, such as the effects of demographic dynamics and a non-unique pattern of morbidity, with the return of diseases that were considered to have been eradicated for good. the ageing of the population is certainly a key factor which must be played out in a positive way: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this theme is accompanied by the challenges of globalisation and cultural integration, which are likely to affect the way in which care is delivered and managed. i'll close with a note: the issue of off-label medicines (to which we could add the spread of over-the-counter medicines, on which the ep has already spoken) is dramatically relevant again in the face of the crisis which pushes the most vulnerable patients to the margins, if not outside, the sphere of control of public authorities. the report deals with this subject with some shared guidance. i therefore confirm my vote in favour.
in writing. - i think the work done on this initiative has been excellent: the rapporteur was able to identify some very important aspects on which patients do not have contractual power vis-à-vis the healthcare system and to put in writing what measures should be taken to make the hospital stay safer, which is already a rarely happy event and chosen by the patient. the additional ability of mr tino rossi, to whom i congratulate, to bring all the political groups together and to achieve unanimity in the commission, is another reason for approving this proposal.
in writing. - the impressive numbers of patients affected by a healthcare-associated infection cannot leave parliament indifferent. we're talking about 3.2 million people a year. as highlighted in mr rossi's report, there is still much work to be done to implement the actions outlined in the 2009 council recommendation. the european centre for disease prevention and control is certainly an important instrument, and we must ensure that it receives adequate funding so that it can continue to carry out its coordination and surveillance tasks effectively. parliament has always shown itself to be sensitive and attentive to issues which affect people closely, and this is about protecting the health of our citizens, who must be guaranteed a safe and high-quality health system.
in writing. − healthcare is a fundamental right for all citizens of the european union, who therefore expect every effort to be made to ensure that hospital services and facilities function excellently for them. that is why we are supporting today mr rossi's report on patient safety through infection prevention and control (ipc), because it calls for action to develop health plans in all the member states of the european union, creating an increasingly harmonised and efficient system. particular attention will have to be paid to improving hospital and non-hospital care in all member states and not just in a limited number of them, as is unfortunately still the case. it will also be important to involve citizens, as potential patients, in improving their own safety through awareness campaigns against infectious or sexually transmitted diseases. it will be essential to provide specific funds for the education and training of health workers and those involved in the care of the sick. it will be essential to ensure that infection control and prevention play a leading role in european union policy, as well as at national, local and regional level.
in writing. - the issue of patient safety has become an increasing concern in healthcare systems around the world, which is why i voted in favour of mr rossi's report, which sets out the guidelines for a concrete eu commitment in this area. healthcare-related adverse events can result in serious injury, complications or suffering, if not death, in patients. i agree that as much as possible we should focus on measures to improve the public's knowledge of patient safety initiatives. given that the health sector is a high-risk sector, it is necessary to draw the attention of member states to the implementation of policies aimed at promoting greater patient confidence in healthcare.
in writing. − the right to health is rightly enshrined at all levels, both at national and european level, in the eu charter of fundamental rights. the member states, however, retain the prerogatives in this area within a european reference action. patients must be able to receive the best possible care and assistance, both in the actual treatment and in the field of information and communication: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a separate reflection should be made on the possibility of obtaining cross-border care: in the border areas, where there are perhaps small isolated areas, cooperation in the field of health is necessary, as has been the case for some years now, for example, on the border between the french and spanish pyrenean mountain regions. in addition, the possibility of obtaining high-quality specific care, which may sometimes require specialised facilities in other countries, should be guaranteed and facilitated. a different argument is needed if we consider a phenomenon which has unfortunately become widespread in recent years, namely the indiscriminate 'exploitation' of the health services of other countries: this is absolutely unacceptable and some of the rules should be revised.
in writing. - we all know, or almost all of us in this chamber, that health is a matter for the member states and not for the eu, unless complementary action can bring real added value. eu action in the field of patient safety consists of helping member states to coordinate their efforts in this area and jointly supporting their actions. it is estimated that between 8 and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the european union suffer adverse events related to their care, whether they are errors during treatment or surgery, problems related to defective or insufficiently decontaminated medical devices, errors in diagnosis or failure to respond to medical examinations. we therefore welcome the commission's action to improve overall patient safety by promoting the exchange of good practice between member states and proposing common definitions and terminology for patient safety.
in writing. − access to healthcare is one of the fundamental rights of the european union and determines the quality of a healthcare system. patient safety must be the primary concern and therefore all member states must comply with european legislation and follow its recommendations. patient safety, prevention and health care must be ensured in all member states by further improvements in both hospital care and the education of health workers. in a context of an ageing population, patient safety must be one of the priorities on the union's political agenda.
in writing. − access to safe healthcare is a fundamental right for european citizens recognised by the eu and the european institutions. the safety of patients is thus prioritised in medical practices. however, there are substantial risks in the healthcare sector, some of which are related to the risks associated with vital operations or drugs, others caused by avoidable medical errors. harm caused to patients has placed a significant burden on european citizens, which is aggravated in times of economic crisis. investment in patient safety is therefore necessary because it will reduce the potential costs incurred in treating patients experiencing adverse events associated with healthcare. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − according to estimates from international studies, 5% of patients admitted to hospital suffer from infections linked to poor healthcare and 13%-16% of hospital costs - one euro in seven - are due to healthcare-related deficiencies. i believe that this report shows a significant commitment by the council and the commission to ensuring greater patient safety, through the identification of measures such as improving the training of healthcare professionals, the dissemination of information relevant to patients by healthcare facilities, research activities for the prevention and control of infections, closer control of medical devices and the dissemination of good hygiene practices. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − access to healthcare is a fundamental aspect of the european union because it is a fundamental right recognised and guaranteed to all european citizens. patients therefore have the right to expect that every effort will be made to ensure their safety. the health sector is a high-risk sector as events can result in serious injury, complications or suffering, if not death, of patients. the harm caused to patients by adverse events associated with healthcare also imposes a heavy burden on society, the burden of which is even greater in a time of economic crisis. that is why the eu must invest as much resources as possible in this area if the right i have mentioned above is to be effectively implemented, without forgetting that, in addition to the obvious benefit to patients, any investment in the field of patient safety is therefore a potential source of savings. the priority given to patient safety also leads to a reduction in costs in terms of treating patients suffering from adverse events associated with healthcare and therefore a better use of financial and human resources. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the report is of particular importance because it contains a number of measures to combat deceptive marketing practices, in particular those unfairly practised by companies which compile yearbooks. the aim is to protect businesses from dishonest companies using deceptive marketing practices, such as sending businesses forms requesting an update of their yearbook data, ostensibly free of charge, but for which an annual fee is then charged. small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly vulnerable to this type of fraud. the economic damage caused to individual businesses by the scams perpetrated by these companies is estimated to be between eur 1 000 and eur 5 000 per year per company. while welcoming the commission's communication to strengthen existing legislation to explicitly prohibit deceptive marketing practices, i believe that there are gaps, potentially fillable, in the introduction of further measures in the field of prevention and information, enforcement and legal action in this area. finally, since deceptive marketing practices can take many forms and are not a european phenomenon, i stress the importance of strengthening international cooperation in combating this phenomenon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr de jong's own-initiative report on the campaign against misleading advertising. i share the content of the text which aims to protect smes, selfemployed people, ngos and public bodies from companies which, through deceptive advertising practices, commit commercial fraud and fraud causing economic damage estimated at between one and five thousand euros per year for each european company.
in writing. - i share the concerns and indications expressed in the report and i announce a favourable vote. misleading advertising practices have increased in the context of the increase in fraud and fraud offences; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission is right to take up this problem, which crosses different categories of criminals: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, including the creation of a european data protection supervisor, the creation of a european data protection supervisor and the creation of a european data protection supervisor. the focal point solution is therefore also an appropriate tool for europol in combating transnational and, increasingly, crossborder criminal networks. the scale of this attack, also from a cultural perspective, should not be underestimated: the presence of organised fraud in a key area of our economies, such as advertising in the ict sector, is a powerful contributor to creating a climate of distrust in business relationships and in the ability of institutions, all together, to maintain that indispensable legal framework in our societies.
in writing. - i have followed the work of the rapporteur, because i am a member of a committee under his responsibility, and i thank him for the balance in the report and the willingness to cooperate. in fact, from the very beginning, the work has gone smoothly and my group has been able to support almost all the policy choices made. i am particularly pleased with the measures to support smes, which do not have to suffer unfair behaviour because of a regulatory misunderstanding or waiting for a court to declare an advertising practice to be wrong, and when this work is completed there will be greater transparency and lower legal costs. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the report's main objective is to protect businesses, the selfemployed and ngos from companies using misleading advertising practices. estimates suggest that the economic damage of this activity is between eur 1 000 and eur 5 000 per year per enterprise. in view of the seriousness of the problem and the worrying figures for this phenomenon, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − we start from the assumption that the 2006 directive does not, in my view, sufficiently protect farms in relation to the problem at hand. the commission has drawn up a plan to protect businesses from misleading advertising, but the rapporteur, and with him parliament, is of the opinion that further measures are possible and should be taken. for example, the adoption of a blacklist of deceptive advertising practices and of companies convicted of having done so is an important first step towards greater clarity. i also think it is very useful for the national authorities to cooperate with banks and credit institutions, to introduce provisions on collective redress in national legislation and to consider extending the unfair commercial practices directive.
in writing. - deceptive marketing practices, which consist in the dissemination of false information, have become more and more widespread in recent times, to the point of taking on more and more varied forms and using more and more unfair methods. the european union's concern is justified not only because of the financial damage they cause, but also because they cause market failures and distortions of competition, and affect the ability of firms to make effective choices. this also has a knock-on effect on consumers, who consequently have to pay more for products and services. we therefore support mr de jong's report which aims to control such practices. since the protection of businesses against such deceptive practices differs from one member state to another (for example, currently only austria and belgium have introduced a specific ban on deceptive practices in their legislation), it is necessary to ensure that in all eu member states additional and significant measures are taken to prevent and inform, as well as new rules that can lead to specific legal actions. moreover, as this phenomenon is becoming increasingly international, new cooperation with third countries will also have to be launched.
in writing. - in europe there are many companies, and unfortunately a growing number, which 'offer' their commercial advertising services fraudulently, that is, by deceiving businesses, often smaller ones, who may have approached them believing they had potential benefits which instead turn out to be real scams. one of the most commonly used techniques is, for example, to require companies to update their data in order to create a database which is supposed to be free of charge, but which in fact takes the form of automatic and onerous subscription to a business yearbook for a specific and binding period of time. austria and belgium have already introduced measures to prevent these specific deceptive practices, and i hope that other countries will follow suit shortly. strong european cooperation is needed to prevent this phenomenon, which is now being tackled by real specialists in the field: the damage to businesses is considerable, because it affects micro-enterprises in particular, which cannot bear further economic burdens, especially if they are caused by illegal behaviour.
in writing. the alarm bells sounded by this spanish company, which is suspected of being fraudulent, are worrying: deceptive marketing practices can take many forms, starting with annuities, payment forms, protection of internet domain names or trademarks, and fraudulent proposals of 'business opportunities', 'work from home' or 'get rich quick'. there is an urgent need for a better exchange of information between member states, which is currently lacking. member states should establish or designate a national focal point where businesses and other victims of fraudulent practices can report and obtain information on judicial and extrajudicial remedies, and receive assistance and advice to prevent and address different types of fraud. each focal point should also have a database to record all types of deceptive marketing practices, with examples that are easy to understand. we therefore call on the commission today to ensure that the exchange of information between national databases is smoothly coordinated, for example by facilitating the establishment of an early warning system to identify new unfair practices, while taking account of budgetary constraints.
in writing. − misleading marketing practices has become an increasingly serious issue in europe, particularly in regard to misleading directory company schemes. it has been reported that such companies have been inviting businesses to complete or update their business name and contact details, seemingly for free, whereas in fact these business have unintentionally agreed to be listed in a business directory at a yearly charge of up to eur 1 000 or more. other reported frauds include payment forms disguised as an invoice for services already ordered when in fact they have not been, unauthorised offers to extend the protection of trademarks in foreign countries, etc. protection against and the mechanisms of law enforcement regarding misleading market practices differ among the member states which leads to major legal and operative uncertainties for businesses. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session, voted this morning on a resolution by mr de jong on misleading advertising and marketing practices. the latter take many forms: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's trade mark protection is not infringed by any of the other community trade marks. the economic damage of these practices is estimated to be in the billions of euros, money lost by european companies, mainly smes, which prefer to pay rather than react and report such practices. protecting the many businesses that are victims of trade fraud is therefore one of the union's key challenges. i am absolutely in favour of a resolution which, in my view, brings to light and denounces a phenomenon too often underestimated by local and national authorities, a phenomenon which in italy is of crucial importance, given the strong presence of smes in the italian production fabric.
in writing. - the set of measures to protect businesses from deceptive marketing practices and to ensure effective compliance currently in force in europe is rather fragmented. that is why i am convinced that a clear regulation by the european union is needed to improve this regulation. moreover, deceptive marketing practices are not a european phenomenon. this is why international cooperation is so important in combating this phenomenon, with appropriate specific measures, because deceptive marketing practices can take on various forms which are very dangerous for the economy of companies.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner malmström, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day, the prelude to the vote in the house tomorrow morning on a very intensive, fruitful and decisive work, carried out as a whole by the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. i would like to thank all of you in advance, from the chairman of the committee to the coordinators, the shadow rapporteurs and the individual members of the crim committee, who have made a significant contribution to the drafting of a text which, in our view, will certainly serve as a constant stimulus to the member states, the commission and the council. actions and recommendations after 18 months of activity, hearings, thematic contributions, expert activity on a mandate given by parliament in march 2012. the worldwide dimension and costs of transnational crime require this effort, and require it with great sensitivity on the part of all member states. one trillion for money laundering, 120 billion for corruption, a cost to the mafia that is difficult to estimate, but ranges from 4 to 5 points of gdp for the european union alone. we have therefore tried, together with our colleagues, to draw up a list of priorities, of concrete actions that we would like to be able to take together, actions and recommendations, with a time horizon that we have set for the next legislature, because we want a lawful economy, we want honest entrepreneurs to be able to compete in the competitions of any member state, excluding companies convicted of mafia, corruption and money laundering, so that they do not participate in activities within the european common market in which there are public economic resources. we wanted the crime of participation in a mafia-like organisation to be banned, we are against banking secrecy, we want banking secrecy to be abolished, just as we do not want tax havens in europe because it is important in terms of money laundering. we would like to refine tools such as confiscation and seizure, which ensure the possibility of acquiring resources that have been illicitly acquired by criminal systems; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and transparent manner. all this in accordance with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. a strong contrast to the drug trade, the smuggling of arms and cigarettes and the traffickers of death. commissioner malmström was recently in lampedusa and was able to see how important it is that these criminal systems, based on human trafficking, can be punished with effective and deterrent measures. there are 69 amendments, which i think are too many, and i have already asked the groups to withdraw some of them, and there are roll-call votes and split votes. it's an important activity. we must give europe a new tool, which will see the victims of the mafia remembered every year, every year from 23 october 2014, the year after that approval which we believe is auspicious for a common challenge all together to criminal systems, transnational crime, the mafia, corruption and money laundering.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by thanking mr iacolino, the rapporteur, and all the members of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering (crim) for this very interesting report. i am grateful that i have had the possibility on a few occasions to join its meetings and participate in its discussions. the report puts many important issues related to the effective fight against organised crime high on the european agenda. let me highlight a few particularly important issues here. i am pleased that there are so many concrete recommendations concerning corruption and integrity. for the time being, however, the commission does not intend to propose new legislation on the definition of corruption or on the approximation of statutes of limitation for corruption offences or the protection of whistle-blowers. there are long-standing international standards at the united nations (uncac) and the council of europe which cover a wide range of aspects of corruption. these are in place. with a few exceptions, the problem is mainly related to the lack of implementation of anti-corruption legislation, rather than definitions. the commission’s anti-corruption report will therefore look at the end results and the efforts of anti-corruption efforts. it will refer to all forms of corruption in the public and private sectors, and it will assess member states’ efforts to see what has worked and what has not worked and recommend further improvements and disseminate good practices. we agree with your recommendations regarding the fight against money laundering. the recently proposed fourth anti-money laundering directive addresses several of your recommendations. the commission is preparing a possible proposal for a directive on the criminal law aspects of money laundering. i am also pleased to see that several recommendations of the report deal with the confiscation and recovery of the proceeds of crime. i am convinced that we need an effective confiscation scheme in all member states, and i hope that the on-going negotiation on the confiscation directive will soon be completed. once this is adopted, it has of course to be implemented promptly. the commission also welcomes the recommendations on cybercrime. awareness-raising at national level will be valuable. as far as images of child abuse are concerned, there is already an obligation for member states under the child sexual exploitation directive. as you know, a number of initiatives have been adopted or are under way at eu level. this provides for a strategic approach and contributes to coordinating the efforts of different players. we have the cybersecurity strategy, the setting up of the european cybercrime centre at europol, and the coordination of national policies and priorities through the policy cycle for organised and serious international crime and other types of cooperation with countries through the global alliance against child sexual abuse online, with over 50 countries all over the globe now as members. we also have the recent cyber attacks directive, which lays down common rules on the definition of the most typical cybercrime offences and their penalties, as recommended in your report. furthermore, we have proposed a directive on network security. so, you see, we have a very ambitious set of newly-adopted actions, though for the moment we are not committing, from the commission’s side, to propose an eu action plan on cybercrime. the commission also welcomes the very large number of recommendations addressing the issue of trafficking in human beings, and that reflects parliament’s very strong commitment as regards this horrible violation of human rights. we welcome the focus on the implementation of the eu legal and policy framework on trafficking in human beings, and particularly the directive. the deadline for transposition expired on 6 april 2013, and still almost ten countries have not transposed that directive. i hope members can join me in pushing those member states to do this as quickly as possible. the directive on victims’ rights means that all victims of crimes will now benefit from common minimum standards on their procedural rights, support and protection throughout criminal proceedings. we also submitted, as you know, a proposal on europol in march 2013. this aims to enhance the operational effectiveness and efficiency of europol, while also increasing accountability towards european citizens. the co-legislators have started to discuss this, and i am happy that there has been good progress in parliament and the council. i hope we can see real progress and an outcome before the parliamentary elections. we also welcome the support from the european parliament on the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office. that would be a milestone in the process of improving the protection of the eu’s financial interests and protecting taxpayers’ money. finally, concerning the cross-cutting aspects of organised crime, you refer to the idea of revising the current legislative framework, including mafia-type organisations, and for stronger action, specific witness protection measures or tailor-made investigation tools. we are currently carrying out a study on the effectiveness of the tools that we use to fight against organised crime. this will be done by next year, and it will enable us to determine the most suitable measures to be adopted in the future. thank you very much, mr iacolino and all your collaborators, for this very valuable report, which i am sure will be of extreme assistance for parliament’s work and for our work in the future.
the final report we are voting on in plenary is the result of a year and a half of hard work and complex hearings by the crim committee, a committee whose creation the s&d group strongly wanted. i am personally satisfied with the result achieved, although i would like to stress that this is only the first step and that unfortunately we still have a long way to go to spread a culture of legality in europe and to assert the principle that the mafia is not just a local phenomenon but a global phenomenon and must be treated as such. in this report we have outlined a path forward and tools to be improved or introduced to make the fight against crime, corruption and money laundering more effective. we now expect the european commission - and i am addressing myself to commissioner malmström in particular - to take our suggestions and turn them into proposals quickly. we as the european parliament, and in particular the libe committee, will be monitoring the implementation and follow-up of this report. i also ask the european commission to publish as soon as possible the first report on corruption in europe, which the commission itself has mentioned several times. the s&d group deplores this delay because we need to know the extent and the spread of the phenomenon in the member states in order to be able to combat it more effectively. we hope that the commission will publish this report by the end of 2013. as regards the content of the report, as the s&d group's shadow rapporteur, i can only congratulate myself on the inclusion in the text of some important proposals which we strongly wanted and supported, such as the common definition of organised crime and corruption, the harmonisation of criminal law on money laundering, the abolition of banking secrecy, the recognition at european level of the crime of mafia-style association, transparency in public procurement and, in particular, the creation of a blacklist of companies involved in corruption and organised crime, the rapid establishment of the european public prosecutor, the possibility of reusing the assets confiscated from organised crime for social purposes, the request for ad hoc legislation for the protection of witnesses and victims of trafficking, the reliability of european parliament prosecutors or other persons convicted for organised crime, and the introduction of stringent environmental standards for the victims of organised crime, which should coincide with the establishment of the european day of remembrance for organised crime and the establishment of a european day of remembrance for victims of organized crime, and the introduction of this report. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr iacolino, and the shadow rapporteurs for their fruitful cooperation, as well as the officials and assistants of the crim committee. finally, i would once again ask the european commission to implement our proposals as soon as possible and not to throw away the long and important work done by this committee.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, while i regret the absence of the council, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat, all the colleagues and officials who have worked on this text. what will be approved tomorrow is a european plan with legislative and non-legislative measures, aimed at dismantling organized crime and the mafia. two priorities were unanimously supported by both the european parliament and the european agencies: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the criminal law is applied in the member states, and that the criminal law is applied in the member states. these are the basic elements on which the mafia is based. the european financial system is under attack and we must regain ground by winning back the support of civil society for the mafia. the work of the crim committee is to be regarded as a milestone in this legislature, because for the first time the european parliament has expressed an unequivocal political position against criminal systems which threaten the freedom, democracy and security of european citizens. it is no coincidence that the fight against organised crime, the mafia and corruption is also mentioned as a priority in official documents of europol and the council. all this is the consequence of a process that began in this legislature with the adoption in 2011 of my resolution that also led to the establishment of the crim committee. i would like to stress the importance of some of the amendments i have tabled and which we shall be voting on tomorrow: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods, the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, the transport of dangerous goods by rail, and the transport of dangerous goods by rail. the extraordinary political work we have done in this committee will have to be recovered by the future parliament in the next legislature. it takes ambition and courage. any hesitation and hesitation will be interpreted by the mafia as consent, tolerance and even possible collusion. i hope that the future parliament will be able to recover the very important work and i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that i believe that i can gather the support of all my colleagues... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his comprehensive report, which is rich in detail and concrete proposals. i hope that the commission will examine and take note of it properly, and i would also like to congratulate the committee as a whole, which has worked in an important atmosphere. i've been in a very different situation than i was in '92. in fact, when i joined the anti-mafia committee in my country - italy - i had the distinct feeling that the mafia was probably also represented on that committee. i would like to stress three points. the first is recycling: we are not going to go into the details of the situation, but we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation, and we are going to go into the details of the situation. secondly: we are not going to be able to say that the trafficking of illegal immigrants is useful and instrumental to the interests of the mafia, especially the italian mafia. when you raise certain issues and attack, for example, the so-called scaffolders, you provoke reactions, as we have seen in the past few days at the ministry of the interior. finally, there is the fact that has appalled all those who have seen the images on television of the blonde baby found in a nomad camp in greece. do we want to do extensive research on organ trafficking even though it often involves nomadic connections?
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the committee chairman and the rapporteur on a report which is certainly interesting and full of ideas. i would like to highlight some of them, for example human trafficking, which is certainly one of the things that most distresses us all and which makes us realize that certain phenomena, in addition to being historical, are unfortunately sometimes also coveted by organized crime. we must also be careful about enlargement, because the largest criminal organizations in germany have turkish origins or are even turkish, based in turkey. so we must be careful about the new countries we want to expand into and also about counterfeit goods from china. i understand that there is a great deal of counterfeiting, especially in the field of medicines, and that is certainly a danger for europe. finally, we must also be very careful about infiltration into politics, because in italy we unfortunately know that the mafia has many packages of votes which are needed to elect members of parliament, including meps. if that were to happen, the democratic system would clearly be affected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming adoption by the european parliament of this report on organised crime is a first step in the right direction and fills a gap and a shortcoming on the part of the institutions. the most significant aspect of this document, apart from the important concrete indications it contains, is that for the first time a european institution has acknowledged that the phenomenon of large-scale organised crime is not a problem affecting only a few regions and countries, but a major european issue. and so finally it is acknowledged that the mafias can kill in a certain place - for example, in italy, in palermo or in catania - but then they invest their huge profits in frankfurt, london and geneva. this is all the more dramatic today, at a historical stage when the very severe economic crisis is dangerously promoting the penetration of the various mafias into the production and local economy through recycling. that's the big question. that is why it is crucial that the commission and the european states fully realize that only through a determined strategy at european level, with strong coordination between intelligence, police and judiciary, can we really achieve results in countering this phenomenon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr iacolino and the crim committee on their excellent work. crime is a real scourge and the fight against crime must be a real european priority. there are thousands of criminal organizations operating, 70 percent of them are transnational, so the costs to the community are enormous, to the economy, to honest citizens, to businesses. as regards tax fraud, vat fraud alone is estimated at eur 100 billion a year, while tax evasion in general is more than eur 1 trillion. the cost of corruption is equivalent to 1% of the community's gdp. it is therefore a waste of resources, which are valuable for new investment and economic recovery. a heavy price to pay and unacceptable in a time of crisis. the confiscation of criminal assets and their reuse for social purposes, the fight against match-fixing and illegal gambling, the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, the introduction of a common legal definition of criminal activities of the mafia type, as well as the elimination of tax havens and the fight against human trafficking, are therefore welcome.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think this has been a very good debate, and it is striking to see how much support there is for the iacolino report and also what ms alfano said before about the whole spectrum. we are talking about organised crime. as everybody has said, it is a hugely profitable business – because it is a business. those 3 600 networks which have been mentioned (and there are probably more) work like multinational companies. they are well organised, they operate all over europe, and they are masters at using the loopholes and deficiencies in our cooperation and in our legislation. we need to do more to catch up with them. there are many very important suggestions in these reports. some of them have been already incorporated in things that we have proposed; some are on their way, and some will be very helpful for the future. i mentioned cybercrime. we have done quite a lot there, with your help. we are working on reports on corruption that will be published later this year, because this is not only something that destroys the very fabric of our democratic societies, it is also very much linked to organised crime, and therefore we lose a lot of money for citizens. as regards trafficking, a lot of things have been done here. we have a directive, but unfortunately there are still 10 member states which have not fully transposed that directive. until that happens, we will not have the tools that could be very useful in fighting this horrible crime. we also have a strategy where a number of very concrete things are being implemented, and there are a number of actions being taken by member states. the commission has done quite a lot to strengthen victims’ rights. we had proposed a public prosecutor. we are seeking to strengthen the operational work of europol. we are preparing for a directive on the criminal law aspects of money laundering, and the commission is very active in the g20 context in working on tax evasion and fraud. on confiscation – and many of you mentioned this – why are they engaged in organised crime? because it is so profitable, of course. we need to go for the money. i know that this week there is a very important trilogue on the confiscation directive. i hope that all parties, the council and parliament, will try to find compromises so that we can have this adopted. we need to harmonise the laws on confiscation and to make it more difficult for the criminal networks. as i mentioned in my introduction, we are engaged in a study to evaluate the effectiveness of the tools we have for fighting organised crime. it will be published next year, and i will of course share the results with you here. your support has been very valuable in what we have done so far. i am looking forward to working with you and to looking at further recommendations in the report to see how we can carry this work forward in order to reach a common goal to fight organised crime, corruption and money laundering in the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, this has been an interesting and stimulating afternoon, which has certainly given me new and significant ideas. what is clear - as commissioner malmström said a moment ago - is that the text is a genuine contribution to a truly innovative text. from tomorrow we will have a european framework for combating mafias, transnational crime, money laundering and corruption. less bureaucracy would make the administrative machinery of the member states more agile and streamlined, probably with ex post controls and guarantees to simplify procedures in dealings with the public administration. integrity and fairness of policy makers and bureaucrats, computer systems that must be up to date today more than ever. the g8 and g20 summits of the past few weeks have confirmed our approach to the abolition of banking secrecy, the fight against tax havens and the automatic exchange of information between member states to make action against money laundering more concrete and effective. we talked about match-fixing and the crime of sports manipulation. how many resources could be freed up for the legal economy, welfare, social care, culture, training and youth employment if we all together could more effectively combat transnational crime, corruption, money laundering and the other phenomena we have mentioned. i welcome the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, it is an important step forward, a new visual angle for added value in the european challenge. mr president, we have laid down a list of concrete and precise priorities, that is, the things we would like the commission and the council to do by the next parliament. we would like all this to happen in order to give concrete and incisive space to our concerns and a new opportunity to our young people. thank you all: the secretariat i hadn't mentioned before. i have already spoken about the amendments, and i believe that today and tomorrow will be a turning point for the european union and its institutions in their fight against transnational criminal systems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is strange that, while the network is spreading to all activities affecting the lives of european citizens, it is still so difficult to have the same access to and use of a modern instrument in the field of justice, a field which needs major changes and above all to streamline its procedures and to ensure, through transparency, a positive relationship with the citizens. i therefore believe that the e-justice action plan must not only be made available to all states, but even become mandatory, because only then will the necessary important steps be taken. i add that, for this to happen, we also need to establish significant investments, because in the plan that should cover the time span from 2014 to 2020, only the financing of successful projects can give citizens the signal that we really mean business and that through this way we believe in the network, in the possibility of using governance properly and above all have the results that are expected by the many people who need justice and cannot have a proper functioning of the structures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italian citizens see taxes rising every day and services falling, they have to pull their belts every day, they have to forgo medical examinations and treatment because they cannot afford them, or they have to wait months for a simple medical examination. in italy too, there are special medical clinics, reserved only for immigrants and illegal immigrants. and these immigrants, free of charge, are visited and treated immediately, without waiting months, unlike italian citizens. what is the commission's view of this discrimination? what does the commission think of immigrants who arrive in italy and immediately demand housing, benefits and free medical care? the commissioner says that people move from one country to another to work. in italy, the number of unemployed is increasing, the poor number four million, and yet, thanks to an italian government that is always too welcoming, new immigrants continue to arrive. what will be the result? social tensions will increase and your fine words, commissioner, and some european funding will not be enough to reassure the citizens.
mr president, i am proud to belong to a europe where freedom of movement is a fundamental freedom guaranteed by the charter and a constituent of the single market. but i want to ask all the nerds a question. what sense would it make to develop a programme like erasmus to promote the mobility of young people and then shut ourselves up and back off when it comes to the mobility of workers? the problem is the gap between the countries of origin and the countries of destination, between rich and poor countries. what is at stake is social cohesion at european level. that is why i am in favour of the social fund's share in the cohesion funds, because that is how we will solve these problems. working is about integrating into society, and i would like to say, after what i heard earlier, that there are many english people who have come to live in france, who certainly benefit from our social security, but who, at the same time, develop the countryside, rebuild houses, make the economy work. you can't cultivate fear. cultivating fear is campaign rhetoric. i am against the europhobes, i am against the eurosceptics, i am against the euro-mobs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the commission which you have just described is very important and very useful for examining in depth issues which have been badly dealt with in recent times. but we should never disregard - and you have rightly not done so - the state of affairs, the reality. in this part of the world, if we want to maintain for the time to come the same level of wealth as today's redistribution among european citizens, we must take into account the fact that we have to welcome millions and millions of people born in other countries who will come to work here with us, for one simple reason: the demographic decline that has hit europe has been going on for some time and has already opened up significant gaps. we're talking about millions of people. we must build for these people reception facilities worthy of the name and functional. so everything about the welfare state must be uniform for reasons of both human rights and social cohesion. so we who are the richest must not imagine that we are using the resources they bring to us and the labour they leave us with simply to solve our contradictions. this is also stated in the work you have illustrated for us: we are not dealing with a tourism that aims to have privileged conditions, but simply with people who freely decide to come to work and live with us.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome the european parliament resolution on the european neighbourhood policy (enp) package of 2013 and the fact that it reacts to all our individual country reports. i share the thrust of the resolution, including the emphasis on the importance of implementation for the success of the policy, the overriding principle of democracy, rule of law and human rights, and the need to apply the principle of differentiation and ‘more-for-more’, taking into account the specificity of each of our partners, the progress made in their reform efforts and their different levels of ambition to engage with the european union. i note your wish to be fully associated in the implementation of the enp and to be regularly informed about developments. i appreciate the cooperation and coordination we have on all areas of the enp, and i am personally committed to its continuation. strengthening the parliamentary dimensions of the enp is a key priority, and i encourage this house to strengthen relations with our partners’ parliaments. we are at an important – even critical – moment in the implementation of the enp. its success depends largely on the willingness and ability of each country to clearly define and assume the ownership of reforms. european union policies can support but not replace this process. we also have to recognise that partners’ ability to stick to their reform commitments can be compromised by external forces. let me specifically underline the impact the conflict in syria has on lebanon or jordan. in such – but also in other – situations our partners need even stronger support from the european union. but in a spirit of mutual accountability, we have to acknowledge that the success of the enp also depends on our own actions. in times of crisis, our policies may sometimes seem to be slow or not focused enough on short-term needs. we need to reflect on how to address this, and on how we can use all the instruments at the european union’s disposal to respond to the challenges in our neighbourhood. we – the european union institutions and our member states – have to stick to our side of the bargain. we have to deliver on political engagement, improved access to our market, better mobility for people and strong and consistent support for reforms. as regards the eastern partnership, achieving a significant package of deliverables at vilnius will create the right conditions to maintain dynamism in the next phase. the major challenges ahead will be, first, implementation of the new agreements, making the process of political association and economic integration irreversible and unlocking the full potential of relationships with the european union; and second, shaping our relations with all six partners on the basis of our values and principles. let me be clear that these decisions on association agreements are sovereign decisions of those countries. let me also be clear that they are not about passing sovereignty to brussels. on the contrary, they are about strengthening their sovereignty by empowering these countries and using the association agreement as a vehicle for introducing european values. many of our southern neighbours are at a crucial phase in their struggle for democracy. conflicts and fragile security situations are threatening achievements already made and hindering reforms. but now is not the time to disengage. as recent events in the mediterranean sea have demonstrated, we have an interest in strengthening dialogue and cooperation. and we must continue with the implementation of our offer of more intense people-to-people contacts, easier mobility and gradual economic integration. the focus should not be limited to supporting individual partners. regional dialogue and cooperation in the mediterranean region remains as important as ever. it is important for building trust and contributing to finding a solution to the region’s protracted conflicts, and it is important for building concrete projects and concrete solidarity among the people. this is why i am encouraged about the recent ministerial conference on the role of women in the context of the union for the mediterranean, and about the other ministerial meetings that will soon take place, notably on energy and transport. and i am also encouraged that the maghreb foreign ministers have shown interest in strengthening their own cooperation and integration, building on our european experience. in the mediterranean as in our eastern neighbourhood, stronger multilateral cooperation among the partners should be part and parcel of the overall transformation and modernisation process promoted by the enp. together with genuine differentiation among our neighbours, it is key to building the area of peace and prosperity that will fulfil citizens’ aspirations for a dignified life.
the resolution which we have tabled together with mr saryusz-wolski is a balanced one and lays the foundations for joint work between the european parliament and the european commission, which we hope will be achieved in practice, and above all it seeks to indicate the areas in which the european neighbourhood policy can be innovated, overcoming the limitations and mistakes of the past. the need for a reversal of the trend is dictated by the facts and the major changes and problems affecting so many countries in both the eastern and, above all, the southern dimensions. we have chosen as the main lines of our neighbourhood policy to build and consolidate healthy democracies in order to pursue sustainable economic growth, to define and extend the sphere of rights and to manage cross-border links. these fundamental lines must be pursued with strength and determination at all times. this means a genuine commitment by governments to free and fair elections everywhere, freedom of association, expression and assembly, as well as a free press and media, a rule of law administered by an independent judiciary and the right to a fair trial and, finally, efforts to combat corruption. in essence, the need in many countries to achieve the goal of democratic reform. the commissioner, to achieve all this, we must strengthen the application of the principle of 'more progress, more aid' and promote it through competition and positive cooperation between the partner countries. it is also necessary to encourage citizens to promote the universal values on which the european union itself is founded. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. finally, we must adopt a new policy on mobility, including a new visa policy, which will govern, on the one hand, regular immigration, thus also responding to the problems that europe is showing in its demographic trend, and, on the other hand, promote a type of circular mobility that will help many boys and girls to study and learn professionally in our countries and then return to their respective countries to contribute to the processes of development and modernisation. in short, we must launch a more effective european neighbourhood policy, which combines the eastern and southern dimensions, avoiding the contradictions which have caused so much damage in the past and now devoting a suitable budget line, capable of responding to existing expectations and needs. this requires a little more courage, the right ambition and the awareness that a renewed neighbourhood policy can really contribute to a credible leap in the quality of the european union's political action in the field of dialogue and cooperation.
madam president, commissioner füle, i am a strong believer in the european neighbourhood policy. this policy is the future of the european project and should continue to be characterised by the european spirit at its best, by which i mean tolerance, dialogue and leading by example. we should never see this policy degraded into a patronising and neocolonising endeavour. we are not carrying out an exercise of hostility and competition with russia. we are not playing a repetition of the great game of two centuries ago, because russia is also part of europe and is not a threat to us. likewise, we should not be perceived as a threat to them. our inspirers and fathers are not mackinder and dzerzhinsky, but schuman and spinelli.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me thank both the authors, mr saryusz-wolski and mr panzeri, for an excellent job. this is the first time this house has attempted to reflect on our new way of reporting on the neighbourhood question. i think they have done it in quite a professional way and have shown the way for those who will follow next year. i will definitely share much of the praise i have heard in the debate for steering our neighbourhood policy with the high representative/vice-president of the commission catherine ashton. i do not say it very often but, as far as the neighbourhood is concerned, one thing needs to be clear in this house: we do not have an external action service policy and capacities on one side and the commission’s policy and capacity on the other. we share the same people: the very same people behind me are the people who support catherine ashton. this is actually the strength of the european union after lisbon: the strength we try to capitalise on. i shall make three points. the first is on funding. i welcome parliament’s efforts to finalise negotiations with the council on the new european neighbourhood instrument, and we need to complete the negotiations as soon as possible. we are already late in putting the new instrument in place. even if we do have the 2014 budget approved, we cannot commit funds for new programmes in 2014 until the full legal and programming framework is formally adopted, and this may put at risk the continuity of our support and our ability to react to changing circumstances. the commission supports parliament’s wish to have greater involvement in strategic decisions on the programming of financial assistance, allowing it to provide guidance on programming assistance under the eni at an earlier stage and before the programming documents are finalised. this will improve coherence and consistency. if i may add two other points. the second is about the benefits of cooperating with this parliament. you were at the launch of the neighbourhood policy. you have always served as the mirror providing us with a reality check on the neighbourhood policy. through euronest and euromed you have provided the value added to this partnership. the thing i am emphasising in dealing with the partner countries is the need to find a consensus between the government and the political parties of the government and those in opposition: consensus on european issues and on european integration issues, and trying to keep those issues outside the political battle. the more inclusivity there is, the more reforms could be pursued and implemented. i guess the same also applies to this house. the more consensus there is on the policy itself, on the region or the countries, the more effective the policy is. the more politics the partner feels – the more politics i am feeling in the relationship – the less effective this policy is. the third and final point i would like to make is that this is not about our policy being imposed on our partners. from the very beginning, this policy not only reflected the lisbon treaty and the new opportunities provided in the external services – i mentioned some of them at the beginning – but it also reflected the dramatic changes in the southern neighbourhood. we also tried to bring this policy of ours closer to the people of our partner countries. what i am trying to say is that this is the policy which we have tried to elaborate together with our partners. it is a policy we are trying to implement for the benefit of our partners and which we also, of course, greatly benefit from. it is a policy which can be successful only if it is based on the principle of respecting each other and the differentiation between the south and the east and among the countries of the south and the east. the policy can be successful if the basis for this is universally adhered-to values. yet it can also be successful if we show sensitivity in understanding the economic and social needs of our partners and if we deliver on them. the policy can be successful only if we continue to be interactive with our partners, delivering also on their ambitions and supporting those who are ready to be supported through embarking on a more ambitious path of reforms. it can be successful only if we strengthen the relationship of the european union with the citizens of those partners through civil society. only in this way can the transformative power of this union really bring change to the neighbourhood. competition in our neighbourhood is bigger, but i think that our neighbourhood policy has shown that, despite the crisis and the difficulties we face, the soft power of the european union has a lot to offer. the european neighbourhood policy is a policy of continuous engagement. sometimes the results may disappoint, but there are compelling reasons for it to provide the framework for the european union’s relations with its neighbours for the years to come, and i thank you very much for your support for this policy.
i have received a motion for a resolution. the minutes have been tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 october 2013. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the agenda includes the report by alain cadec, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european maritime and fisheries fund (repealing council regulation (ec) no 1198/2006, council regulation (ec) no 861/2006 and council regulation (ec) no xxx/2011 on the integrated maritime policy) (com ((2011) 0804 - c7-0460/2011 - 2011/0380 ((cod)).
i am not going to reduce this yearlong debate to a referendum on fleet renewal, because we have done a good job with the shadow rapporteurs, with mr cadec, of working out a scenario for the use of the fund, consistent with the fisheries reform which this house has approved. reducing the debate to a referendum on whether or not to renew the boats seems to me to be very reductive. as you know, alain, i don't agree with you. i think that europe today cannot afford to tell the european citizens that with one hand they should finance new vessels and with the other hand they should finance the scrapping of vessels. this operation would not be understood by our citizens, who would do well not to vote for us in may if we were to adopt such an attitude as the european parliament. i am very confident that we have done a very good job in creating the conditions for the fisheries of the future and the use of this fund to leave their mark on european policies, and that this season, which has started today, will leave unchanged the role of a more effective europe than it has been so far, given the lack of responses to the sector. the intervention of young people is essential, because job start-ups are a measure which, at this particular time of crisis, also helps the employment rates which must necessarily increase in our europe. this fund is not finished, even if it is one billion a year. using it in one way or another means making choices, and we must make choices by operating socially. finally, commissioner, i am offended by your behaviour because you did not telephone me. he called everyone, i'd like to know what the reason is why he didn't call me.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, i agree with what mr fraga said, but i would like to ask you a very simple question. i would like to know whether you think that the demolition contribution is compatible with the renovation contribution and how you think that this is compatible with a wise policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the sea and its resources are a common good for both professional and amateur fishermen and, of course, for consumers. it is therefore hypocritical to talk about aid to fisheries in the way that it is being done. if it is right to protect those who live off the fisheries by means of measures to encourage the replacement of the fleet in order to pollute less and to support aquaculture to repopulate the mediterranean sea, it is much more urgent to take action on the issue of food fraud, given that, at least in my country, 80% of fish comes from non-european countries and is often sold as fresh when it is not at all fresh and non-precious species are sold at exorbitant costs. only by acting now, including by increasing the anti-fraud funds, can european and italian fishermen and, above all, consumers be protected.
madam president, mr minister, the european policy on so-called refugees has been wrong and unsuccessful so far. the numbers of asylum seekers we have, or those who are fleeing, are enormous and far beyond any capacity or practical possibility of receiving them. there is talk of 50 million people coming from africa in the next five years, almost as many as the entire population of italy. and what has europe done? it has financed the dictators of those countries which are forcing their citizens to flee with a sum of almost 10 billion euros. i would like to ask you to check it out, mr swoboda. a huge sum, some of which has ended up in the hands of corrupt officials, if not terrorists. we can't go on like this. the next council must act immediately, not in june, by sending ships under the water to those countries from which the migrants come and deciding there who is entitled to asylum and can be accepted in the various member states and who is a criminal or worse a terrorist and should not be accepted. the next council must also immediately initiate wider international agreements to accommodate the enormous number of asylum seekers i have just mentioned, which cannot be absorbed - i emphasize this - by europe alone. africa is a problem for the whole world and i believe also, and above all, for those countries such as china which are exploiting all its resources.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that a real debate took place in this parliament today, which is a bit unusual. there was a high level of evaluation, and when the level is high, there is substantial agreement: we all asked for a political europe. the problem that always occurs to me is why, among the many items on the agenda, the council's assessment of the political problems facing europe is not included. i refer to the many items on the agenda which will certainly never be concluded, as always happens in the councils, citing the case of lampedusa of immigration not because i am italian, but because i believe that this is a european problem, political even before financial and economic. we must realize that monetary europe must have preconditions such as political will, political unity and solidarity, because these are terms laid down in the statutes and the main documents, but they are not being implemented. our debates are always bureaucratic and concern deadlines, never taking account of the european spirit. if, as we all agree, the problem of immigration is of great relevance and is a problem that requires a political assessment in italy, in relation to europe, it has also strengthened europe in the tragedy that happened in lampedusa, because if italy, if the countries alone cannot do it, and europe has its own reason for this solidarity, politics must help to solve this problem, which is its main problem.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fear that this european council will not be memorable is very real and would not be new. we are at a standstill on economic and monetary union: the idea of incentives to strengthen economic policy coordination is disappearing, while new sanctions are being imposed surreptitiously with macroeconomic conditionality, illegitimately emptying the very concept of co-decision. some governments, whose time is running out, are even trying to water down the tentative progress made on the social dimension of emu, which for us is an essential element that must be developed and which must lead to a real use of the social indicators in the context of the european semester. the background is the failure to recognise that a change of course is needed and that europe must strengthen its internal market. the reference to the lampedusa tragedy is a positive one on immigration, but it is not enough to establish a task force. the effort of solidarity with migrants and the most exposed states must be made immediately. suspension of transfers of refugees from dublin, applying the special difficulty clause provided for in the regulation, granting of humanitarian visas to secure persons in transit countries, rapid adoption of new rules for rescue operations. it is time for us to act, we will judge the european council by its deeds and not its words.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council which opens tomorrow is of crucial importance for the future of the union. i think it is no coincidence that the first item on the agenda is the completion of the digital single market. for every two jobs lost in the crisis, five new jobs are created by the spread of the digital economy, but there are also savings and benefits for public administrations and above all for citizens. i therefore hope - and i invite the president - that the debate will focus on four priority points: the completion of the digital single market and of liner services, the abolition of roaming, the promotion of digital infrastructure and the key role of administrations in the dissemination of innovative digital services, incentives to invest in digital skills and the development of long-term projects.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe i have found a solution which could save european citizens hundreds of millions of euros: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am of course being provocative, but in fact i see that all economic, social and fiscal policy measures are now decided by officials in brussels, although i do not quite understand what their mandate is. we must be honest with our citizens. their choices no longer matter, democracy is a concept that is slowly being overtaken. we have been elected to represent the people who have given us their trust and i wish there was still room to bring their demands and defend their interests. we are practically in a european dictatorship, with very strict restrictions and instructions to be followed to the letter. i hope that the citizens will rise up as soon as the next european elections are due and we hope for a democratic uprising, otherwise i think we will see many people in the streets fighting to regain the democracy that europe is denying them. the people hate you.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on this dossier, which has opened up a great debate not only between the political parties but also within them. it was a great forum for discussion. now, apart from the semester, apart from the commission's recommendations and apart from the actions taken by national governments, i think that this parliament must seriously discuss how we think and what we want from this europe. we all agree that it is important to have stable public finances, but how far are we prepared to rely on budgetary considerations for fiscal stability alone, without thinking about development, employment and therefore also investment? in europe, some reforms are now indispensable and we cannot waste any more time. i am referring specifically to the reform of the banking union, where we have serious problems for businesses, and to the credit crunch, which is suffocating businesses in europe. growth and countries in difficulty must be at the heart of our debates. we have to work on two axes. the first is responsibility for public accounts. the second is european solidarity. the only way out of the crisis is a europe of solidarity, a europe of the peoples.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, parliament has just adopted amendments to the council’s position on the draft budget for 2014. consequently, in my capacity as president of the council, i agree that the president of the european parliament should convene the conciliation committee, as required by article 314(4)(c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i naturally thank the shadow rapporteurs with whom we worked very diligently on this regulation - much awaited by everyone involved in international trade on the european side - precisely to try to provide us with these rapid response measures to those who violate trade agreements with the european union. i propose that the vote on the legislative resolution be postponed so that we can enter into a trilogue as soon as possible.
madam president, i withdraw the oral amendment and instruct the s&d group to vote against.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur ms hedh for her work and efforts in processing this proposal. in the spirit of compromise and with a view to reaching a first reading agreement, the commission will not stand in the way of an agreement between institutions and therefore welcomes this compromise package and looks forward to its rapid adoption. however, the commission does have concerns over the clearer commitment to reduce fees for smes and in particular for microenterprises, and has sent a statement to this effect to parliament’s services for the record of the plenary sitting.
madam president, i table the following oral amendment, to be inserted after recital ay. the new text is this: 'whereas this resolution represents a political guideline for future legislation by the european commission and the member states;
madam president, i shall be very brief. i would like to thank my group, the alde group, for believing in this mission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i ask the honourable members for their attention. i thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the vice-presidents. i think the report today should be dedicated to all the innocent victims of the mafia: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. today, 23 october, is the european day of remembrance for all the innocent victims of the mafia and organised crime.
in writing. − as the world's largest exporter of goods and services and the main trading partner for over 100 countries worldwide, the european union is a highly open market. as we know, the opening of the internal borders of the european union has created a wide range of benefits and opportunities. less well known is the fact that many international criminal organisations often succeed in exploiting the eu's openness to trade to increase their illicit trafficking. this is the case with so-called "drug precursors", that is, substances that are themselves legal but can be used to make drugs. in order to combat drug trafficking and related criminal activities, the union has provided for special controls on drug precursors when they are exported, imported or in transit. until now, medicinal products have always been excluded from the scope of this special legislation. however, many drugs are used to synthesise narcotic substances, thereby indirectly fuelling their production and trade. this is absolutely unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which seeks to subject drugs at risk of diversion to a special regulatory regime and to provide the union with a rapid and effective response capacity in this field.
in writing. the report deals with the issue of drug precursor trade between eu countries and third countries. drug precursors are legal substances used to manufacture narcotics, which are often also used for illicit purposes. i am voting in favour of the report because the amendment to the regulation is essential to adapt customs controls in order to prevent this criminal phenomenon; in addition, the monitoring of exports, imports and transit should be increased.
in writing. − drug precursors are legal substances, but if intercepted by crime and misused, they can be used to produce drugs. for this reason, at union level, a council regulation provides that drug precursors, as classified and listed in the annex to the regulation, are subject to more or less strict controls when imported, exported and in transit. it has recently been discovered that medicines containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine are sometimes used to synthesise methamphetamine. the fact that medicinal products are excluded from the scope of the regulation makes it difficult to intercept or seize shipments of such products. the commission has proposed to introduce special legislation for medicinal products based on ephedrine or pseudoephedrine. i agree with the rapporteur that a new category of substances should be created to simplify the procedure for extending controls to other medicinal products which could be used in the future as drug precursors. adjusting the regulation, by means of the ordinary legislative procedure, whenever a new drug is used as a drug precursor would, in fact, entail too long a time-frame and undermine the effectiveness of controls.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemicals that have a wide range of lawful uses, such as the synthesis of plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, perfumes, detergents or flavourings. they are traded for legitimate purposes on regional and global markets, but some of them may be diverted from legitimate distribution channels and used instead for the illicit manufacture of drugs. although control of drug precursors is therefore an essential aspect of the fight against drugs, the many legitimate uses to which they are susceptible preclude the possibility of prohibiting their trade. a specific regulatory framework has been established, both at international and eu level, to monitor the legal trade in these substances and to identify suspicious transactions in order to prevent these substances from being used for illicit purposes. we're keeping a very high guard.
in writing. − recent legislation on trade in drug precursors between the eu and third countries is a step in the right direction to regulate the trafficking of sensitive chemicals and pharmaceuticals, which are often and willingly used to synthesise drugs in clandestine laboratories or often even within the walls of the home. stronger rules, with clear information on imported or exported products, their weight, chemical components and routes, are useful in controlling trade in precursors and can help law enforcement to distinguish between those who use these substances for medicinal purposes on a regular basis and those who use them to produce drugs. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. this is likely to be undermined by the growing differences between customs offices at the eu's borders, which do not always carry out the same checks and often allow illegal substances to enter the single market in order to clear large quantities of goods quickly. i therefore vote in favour of this text because it guarantees greater security, transparency and legality for citizens and companies in the pharmaceutical sector.
in writing. - i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the commission proposal amending council regulation (ec) no 111/2005 laying down rules for the control of trade between the community and third countries in drug precursors. firstly, because this proposal aims to fill a legal vacuum in the regulation. i think it is necessary to include medicinal products in the definition of scheduled substances and to create a new category of substances, so that the controls applicable to scheduled substances are carried out in a slightly more flexible way. this is to avoid recourse to the codecision procedure, which does not have a rapid response capacity and allows drug traffickers to adapt to the situation even before the text is adopted. this would prevent us from achieving our objectives of combating drug trafficking and organised crime as we should.
in writing. − i fully support this report because it strengthens the control of trade in drug precursors, especially of acetic anhydride which is often used for the illicit production of heroin. it is very important to create an eu system of licensing and registration capable of monitoring the trade of substances which are widely used in various legitimate industrial processes, but which can also be misused by criminals. the harmonisation of licencing requirements across the eu is essential for the prevention of market fragmentation and illegal transactions. in addition i hope that effective eu action in this field will encourage other regions in the world to follow the eu’s example.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the hedh report on 'drug precursors' because i believe that strengthening the system of control and data collection on operators and purchasers of substances which could be used for the preparation of illegal drugs is a matter of fundamental importance.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. the commission's particular attention to solving a delicate dilemma, balancing the reasons for combating drug trafficking with the delicate aspects of freedom of enterprise and, more generally, fundamental rights as defined in the lisbon treaty, should be acknowledged. in particular, it is important not to impede normal economic activities, especially in the chemical sector, by encroaching on the sphere of the minute management of security and police measures. the fact that small amounts of precursors are sufficient to produce large quantities of drugs is not helpful and would put us at risk of intervening with destructive or ineffective measures. the commission was able to find a proportionate and appropriate solution by using the specific subcategory which also concerns the end-users of precursors. if the competent authorities can ensure that data is handled correctly, we can say that we have done what was reasonably possible from the point of view of regulatory reform. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which supports the general line adopted by the commission to tackle the problem of the illicit diversion of drug precursors (i.e. substances which are themselves legal but which can be used to manufacture drugs). effective surveillance systems must be put in place to prevent these substances from being diverted from eu lawful trade to fuel drug trafficking. in this respect, the proposal to strengthen the rules on the registration of drug precursors and the establishment of a european database on these substances is a major improvement on the current situation, giving organized crime a foothold and thus weakening its chances of illegally establishing itself on the european market.
in writing. − the report focuses on data processing, which must be carried out in an anonymous form under the supervision of the european data protection supervisor. i am in favour of this because the aim is to increase controls and ensure privacy, so as to reduce the supply of illicit drugs prepared using drug precursors.
in writing. − the eu has recently been criticised internationally for the alleged weakness of control measures on the european market for drug precursors. these chemicals are used in many industrial processes, but their legitimate trade is diverted to the illicit production of narcotics. drug precursors are rarely produced by criminals, because their manufacture requires major infrastructure: they're usually stolen or bought legally. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides and the use of pesticides in the manufacture of foodstuffs. the establishment of a strengthened and harmonised licensing and registration system, the establishment of a european-wide database containing information on seizures of drug precursors in the eu and the establishment of a list of all authorised or registered operators and end-users of drug precursors in the eu. these instruments will allow trade flows to be monitored more closely without imposing unnecessary administrative burdens on firms.
in writing. - today we voted on two reports on drug precursors, which are chemicals widely used in various industrial processes, for example in the production of plastics, in the pharmaceutical industry or in the cosmetics industry, but which can be misused for the illicit production of drugs. it was absolutely right and necessary to act in this area, because european legislation was very lacking. the european commission's proposal to improve the current situation is based on three main principles: strengthening the monitoring of trade in these products, improving registration rules and establishing a european database on drug precursors. the other legislative text is intended to regulate trade in these substances between the european union and third countries: the commission has also rightly chosen to apply stricter measures in this area. these substances, used illicitly, are mainly used to produce highly dangerous drugs such as cocaine, amphetamines and even heroin, which now accounts for the highest proportion of drugrelated deaths in the eu. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. − drug precursors used for industrial production can be used by criminals for the production of illegal drugs. in europe, there have been concerns regarding the control measures used in the monitoring of the trade in drug precursors, particularly acetic anhydride which is used for producing plastics, dyes, perfumes, etc. but can also be used for the production of heroin, amphetamine and cocaine. therefore, it is important to make sure chemicals that are major components of illegal drugs are not diverted from legal trade in eu. i voted in favour of this proposal because it sets up a legal framework to better tackle drug-trafficking and prevent market fragmentation relating to drug precursors.
in writing. - the report by mr hedh on drug precursors was voted on in plenary today. drug precursors are chemicals widely used in various industrial processes, but which can be misused for the illicit production of drugs. despite the existence of a licensing and registration system to control trade, the eu has been the subject of some international criticism due to its allegedly weak control measures. criticism has focused on acetic anhydride ('aa'), the main precursor drug to heroin. i agree with the rapporteur in supporting the commission's proposal that, in order to ensure that these precursors are not diverted from lawful trade in the eu, end users of ad should be registered with the competent authorities and that a database containing information on seizures of drug precursors in the eu should still be set up, while respecting and protecting personal data.
in writing. − on the misuse of drug precursors, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of strengthening the definitions used and introducing more harmonised and flexible conditions/requirements for registration in order to adapt the different categories to the changing situation. i welcomed the commission's proposal to set up a new european database containing information on seizures of drug precursors in the eu, and a list of all authorised or registered operators and all end users of drug precursors in the eu. the simplification and harmonisation of registration and licensing requirements within the eu should be supported to avoid market fragmentation and to prevent criminals from targeting the 'weakest link' in the eu internal market. finally, the establishment of a european database should be welcomed as it will bring the necessary transparency and strengthen control of all drug precursors in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which aims to make justice and the judicial system more transparent and accessible to citizens, by digitalising documents and introducing electronic justice tools. i believe that e-justice can make an important contribution to streamlining and speeding up judicial and administrative procedures and reducing their costs. one small step on a long road ahead. the european union has repeatedly condemned italy for its failure to guarantee the right to a reasonable trial period, a right enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. − the first european multiannual action plan on e-justice covered the period 2009-2013. in today's vote, parliament called on the commission to put forward a new plan for 2014-2020 to relaunch the union's e-justice action while streamlining the legislative work, projects and financial planning relating to e-justice. the e-justice is intended to be a tool to make the legal system more accessible to citizens and professionals alike. the potential to be exploited is many: e-justice systems can facilitate the mutual recognition of judicial and administrative decisions, help reduce the costs of judicial and administrative proceedings and increase awareness of eu civil justice instruments and cross-border proceedings. the development of e-learning tools for the judiciary would be interesting and should be further developed in the new plan.
in writing. − justice has become one of the biggest costs in the eu. in addition to the unseen social burden, there are significant economic losses. long process times and the resulting insecurity lead to a substantial reduction in gdp. in this context, the digital justice plan 2014/18 aims to promote greater efficiency of procedures by automating the exchange of information, the service of documents and the translation of certain procedural documents. the objectives are the reduction of red tape, particularly cross-border red tape, and the development of e-learning tools for the judiciary and staff. in the report by mr lehne and mr lópez aguilar, parliament calls for the digital justice sector to be considered as a priority in the european justice programme for the period 2014-2020. i fully share the underlying demands of the parliamentary initiative of my fellow rapporteurs and, by voting in favour, i wanted to express my support for the path being taken.
in writing. − e-justice is a tool to provide greater access to legal and judicial information and to judicial and administrative proceedings for both citizens and professionals. we believe that e-justice can play an important role in strengthening mutual trust and understanding and thus in supporting the mutual recognition of judicial and administrative decisions between states, which is a fundamental principle of the union's legal order. electronic justice systems by their nature tend to reduce the costs of judicial and administrative proceedings, in particular by automating the exchange of information, the service of documents and the translation of certain procedural documents. we believe that this is in the interest of the various stakeholders within the judicial system and, on the basis of cost-effectiveness considerations, we believe that the projects should continue.
in writing. − i believe that e-justice is a tool to enable greater access to legal and judicial information and to judicial and administrative proceedings, both for citizens and for professionals in the field. the use of electronic applications, electronic transmission of documents, videoconferencing and the interconnection of judicial and administrative registers should be increased in order to further reduce the costs of judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings. this instrument will lead to considerable simplification of bureaucracy, and for these reasons i gave my favourable opinion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, baroness ashton, i know that you have been working very hard and i congratulate you on your work in iran. the election of the new president rouhani has opened up many hopes and many illusions perhaps, because this moderation seems to be refuted by precise numbers: since the election of rouhani in august, 150 death sentences have been carried out and 560 executions in the last year, more than in the same period in 2012. but this new atmosphere has caused great euphoria among many colleagues, so much so that there have already been calls from several quarters to reduce or abolish sanctions, forgetting that perhaps it is precisely the sanctions that have acted as a deterrent and led to a change in iranian policy. i would like to see what happened in the maghreb, where unfortunately our hopes were partly dashed, avoided and instead that the cautious attitude towards the new iranian policy, summed up by your masterly words 'more for more and less for less', be maintained, not only from the economic and financial point of view but also from the political point of view.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the world geopolitical picture and its recent evolution, we see three scenarios before us. the first is the failure of what may be called "american democratic missionaryism". and this is for two main reasons: the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economies and to contribute to the development of the countries of central and eastern europe. the second scenario is the emergence on the world stage of countries that declare themselves democratic - china, russia - and that use their economic, financial and energy strength to influence the new geopolitical framework and to fill the spaces that are becoming free. the third scenario is europe, characterized by its democratic crisis and its current difficulty in presenting itself as a reference point for the international community. we must therefore be aware that european foreign policy must play an important role now in order to become a leading player, because here and now there is a space to be seized to relaunch a new foreign policy and to build a new global approach, as mr brok's report suggests.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission understands and appreciates the concerns expressed by the honourable members. of course, our immediate reaction and concern relates to the fate of the crew and also of the journalists. this will need an early solution. it is also important that the legal aspects of the incident, in relation to the law of the sea, are clarified. that is why i said in my introductory speech that we welcome the decision of the netherlands, as flag state, to seek arbitration, and we regret that our russian partners have chosen not to cooperate in the arbitration procedure. we hope that the openness to settlement which russia has expressed will lead to a quick solution to the problem, and we would rather not speculate on the possible next steps. of course, it depends on how the situation evolves, and the commission hopes that the matter will be resolved quickly and proportionally. the general concerns expressed here about freedoms and the rule of law in russia have been met with determination and consistency by the european union at all levels, as already debated in this chamber during the last session with my colleague, mrs malmström. from the outset, the european union has made it clear that russia should respect its international commitments and strive for a system based on the rule of law and respect for human rights and democracy. with regard to our longer-term concerns – an issue which some of you rightly raised – i think we should not overlook the message which greenpeace wanted to send – not to russia, but to all of us. it was a message about the protection of the arctic environment. i would like to say that in the commission we are very much aware, and are at the forefront, of global efforts to tackle environmental pressures on the arctic such as climate change and contaminants. we are doing so, for instance, through the implementation of the new minamata convention on mercury, which i co-signed just 14 days ago with the lithuanian environment minister. it has a very important and tangible benefit for the people in the arctic region. maybe we do not see it at first sight, but the world today is global and interconnected. the european union is also providing eur 20 million a year for the funding of arctic research. much of that goes into environment and climate issues. dg environment is funding a pilot project to establish an arctic ngo forum to provide a platform for ngos engaged on arctic environment issues, in which greenpeace is a participant. the eu is actively participating in several arctic council working groups and projects to address environmental problems and promote sustainability in the arctic. it is also participating in the climate and clean air coalition, which is addressing the issue of black carbon and other short-lived climate forces affecting the arctic. finally, i will just mention the seventh environmental action programme, which we will be discussing later today. this includes a commitment that the eu will give greater emphasis to the arctic region and recognises the need for intensified cooperation and increased union involvement to address new and shared environmental challenges in the region. i understand that this debate today is really important both in terms of immediate concern and of the longer-term perspective.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i thank all the members for this really important debate. we fully understand the concerns which they have expressed. we take note of the latest breaking news on the dropped piracy charges. this needs to be assessed. at this stage, however, all our efforts should address the urgent issue of the crew members and journalists facing the prospect of many years in prison. furthermore, we have to fully respect the wish of the countries directly involved to treat this as a consular matter so far. let me assure you that our colleagues in the eeas are, along with diplomats from many member states, in constant and frequent contact with the russian authorities on this issue. we will see how events unfold on the ground and will act accordingly.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by thomas ulmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council directive laying down basic safety standards for the protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation (com (2012) 0242 - c7-0151/2012 - 2011/0254 (nle)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 october 2013 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr gaston franco, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a general programme of union action in the field of the environment up to 2020 'living well, within the limits of our planet' (com ((2012) 0710 c7-0392/2012 2012/0337 ((cod)).
member of the commission. − madam president, it has been almost a year since the commission adopted its proposal for a new european union environmental action programme. we are now approaching the end of a very demand-driven process. this house, as well as the council, has repeatedly called on the commission to propose a successor to the sixth environmental action programme, which expired this year. since then, you have had several discussions in this house about what the programme should focus on and why it was needed. both the committees made their opinions known and the member states adopted no less than four sets of conclusions. meanwhile, the commission consulted a wide variety of stakeholders during the programme’s development. what struck me most was the broad consensus that prevailed throughout this process. from the beginning, there was wide agreement on the environmental challenges we face, their importance for the economy and the priorities that should guide our efforts to tackle them. the result is a programme entitled ‘living well, within the limits of our planet’. that is the title the commission proposed, and it has not changed. but thanks to the work of parliament and the council, the programme itself has improved in many ways. the political agreement reached in june sends a clear signal that the european union and its member states support a strong and smart environmental policy in europe as a key condition for healthy living and a competitive, resource-efficient and low-carbon economy. this is well captured in the vision for 2050 set out in the programme. the programme itself is a joint commitment of the union institutions and the member states to deliver the benefits of environmental action to people and businesses all over europe. tomorrow’s growth will depend on making resource efficiency, natural capital and low-carbon technologies a much more central part of our economic policy. our competitiveness depends on eliminating waste and cutting costs, and moving away from an economic model based on extraction, production, consumption and throwing away. our well-being depends on further measures to cut the considerable risks to the health of our citizens from increasing exposure to air pollution and toxic substances. finally, we simply cannot afford to continue letting our natural capital degrade further, at the risk of losing out on the valuable and often irreplaceable services that nature provides. investing in nature is investing in our future. evidence shows that nature repays us many times over. i am therefore encouraged to see that the outcome of the negotiations between parliament and the council sets out a number of important objectives and targets to be achieved by 2020, for instance that we have to step up our efforts to implement the european union biodiversity strategy. we also commit to discussing and agreeing on a strategy for a non-toxic environment and to addressing the combination effects of chemicals and safety concerns related to endocrine disruptors and nanomaterials. under the programme, member states should work towards integrating environmental considerations, including water protection and biodiversity conservation, into land-use planning decisions. it also stressed the need to address european union soil quality, including through a binding legal framework. the european parliament and the council agree on the need to define our climate and energy targets for 2030, taking into account the indicative milestones set out in the low-carbon economy roadmap to 2050. finally, the seventh eap provides an ambitious framework for taking our work forward on the rio+20 follow-up. we now need to start elaborating on the eu position for goals and targets for poverty eradication and sustainable development beyond 2015. implementation is a cornerstone and a supporting theme of the seventh eap. the main elements of the commission’s proposals to improve implementation were all endorsed, including the need to further develop inspection support capacities at eu level and find effective solutions to access to justice. we will work closely with the member states so that each of us faces up to our respective responsibilities to deliver the environmental outcomes agreed as part of this programme. the new environmental action programme provides the medium-term framework for eu institutions and member states to join forces and implement the vision that we have defined. only by working together at all levels will we be able to deliver the improvements in the environment, the economy and society that we need to continue living well, within the limits of the planet. i would like to close by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur, mr franco, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for all their work on and dedication to this file. i would also like to state once again how much i appreciate the fact that the irish presidency gave such high priority to this file.
the seventh environmental action programme sets out a set of possible long-term policies to tackle the major environmental challenges, which can only be addressed through coordinated implementation of sectoral environmental policies, as indicated in the agreement we will be voting on tomorrow. only then can we begin the transition to a low-carbon, resource-efficient society, while safeguarding the health and well-being of its citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy. i personally believe that legislative action needs to be accelerated to establish the three binding 2030 targets as soon as possible, so as to give all actors time to adjust to meet the long-term targets. the fight against climate change must continue to be an integral part of european action, and so we must continue along the path we have been following for some years now, namely the global approach in which all sectors of the economy must contribute in the perspective of achieving the ambitious 2050 targets, which provide for a reduction in emissions of 80 to 95 per cent compared to 1990. only strong and concerted internal action will enable the eu to play a leading role in the fight against climate change in an international context and to push for binding action involving global partners.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the rapporteur for his proposal. i agree with what mr pirillo said a moment ago. the general programme of action of the european union on the environment up to 2020 is particularly important in characterising the necessary qualitative leap forward in european policies on the subject. investment is needed to support genuine green growth and policies for land redevelopment, sustainable innovation through genuine incentive policies for good enterprises, which will also produce employment benefits. i would like to focus on one aspect, that of incentives for the development and establishment of new parks and natural or marine areas. i think we need to have more ambition and more concrete objectives on this. protected areas ensure the conservation of biodiversity, protect water and limit the artificial waterproofing of the soil, which has made our earth more vulnerable to climate change and natural disasters, and is a potentially serious risk factor for the environment, the economy, society and the health of citizens. the municipalities are too often faced with financial problems and are particularly attracted by the revenues from the so-called urbanisation charges, which allow the construction of works that certainly increase the consensus among the administered populations, but trigger an ecologically perverse circuit. mechanisms should therefore be identified to reverse the current trend, by rewarding local authorities that build less with more funding and by obliging them to provide for the rehabilitation of existing buildings and decommissioned areas with bio-architecture techniques before authorization is granted for new construction for both energy containment and the elimination of toxic materials, such as asbestos and others, and those harmful materials that are present in old buildings.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the seventh environmental action programme is very important for the reasons which my colleagues have explained to you. i would like to make a specific point. in this part of the world, the european union has a problem of competitiveness with the rest of the world. the global market has kind of exaggerated it, and there are two models in play. the first is that of those who want to gain competitiveness by producing goods and services at lower production costs, thus at the expense of thresholds that were considered, especially in our culture, to be unattainable. some people, however, believe that competitiveness must be gained through the quality of what is produced and how it is produced. the high challenge, the competition, that is to say the quality challenge, has a number of preconditions. one of these is respect for the individual and collective rights of people, who must work with all the dignity that the activity carried out must contain; another is the respect of the environment. we cannot imagine our future being tied to the destruction of environmental heritage simply to gain space in terms of competition in the short term. that is why any action to improve the environment and to respect the extraordinary heritage we have inherited is useful not only for today but even more so for tomorrow, because we can and must compete only in that way, to the exclusion of the other.
there are no requests for "catch the eye". i give the floor to commissioner potočnik.
member of the commission. − madam president, we are reaching the end of the long and winding road of the seventh environmental action programme and sending it on an even longer journey. i would like to touch on some of the issues you have mentioned in your reactions. regarding energy and climate and the plans until 2030, the commission, as you know, is actively working on the proposal with the aim of its being presented by the end of this year. on endocrine disrupters, i would like to be clear, concerning the strategy, that it is the aim of the commission to finalise the new strategy for endocrine disrupters by the end of this year. the strategy will be accompanied by a review of the old strategy from 1999, and this will also constitute our response to the european parliament’s own-initiative report and its action plan for implementing the decisions concerning endocrine disrupters in the current programme which we are now discussing. concerning the criteria: yes, our original plan was firstly, to propose scientific criteria to identify endocrine disrupters in the form of a commission recommendation, and then in a second step, to implement the criteria in the various new pieces of legislation. but given the vigorous debate in the scientific community, and also the claims by industry of the potentially high impact of the criteria on the availability of plant protection products, we are now carrying out both steps simultaneously. as a consequence, the commission will present proposals for the introduction of criteria to identify endocrine disrupters for biocides and plant protection products rather later than foreseen. this does not, of course, mean that endocrine disrupters are not regulated in those regulations. fourthly, concerning the soil directive, i would like to be clear that in the refit communication the commission did not propose withdrawing the soil directive. it did propose considering its withdrawal, and in the same document we have committed ourselves to soil protection in the way in which we proposed. so the fact is that, on the one hand we had seven years when we could not agree in the council to support the directive, and on the other hand, in the very programme we are discussing today we have a very firm commitment to deal with the soil issue. so i think it is an ideal opportunity, on the basis of both these things, for us to start seriously and immediately discussing how we really want to protect soil in the future. i do not think that it would be proper for us to leave it for the next seven years on the table like a kind of a sleeping beauty, because it is not of any help to the soil if we keep it for ten or fifteen years more. but it is important that we agree among ourselves whether we mean seriously to do the things to which we have committed in the seventh environmental programme which we are discussing today. i would just remind the european parliament that you have consistently supported the european soil directive from the first moment when it was proposed by the commission. regarding the other, wider, issues which we are discussing as part of our core economic policy, i think it is really important to understand where the world today is going. we are all used to the figure that there will be nine billion of us in 2045 – maybe 2040 or 2050. what does nine billion mean? it means that in one generation there will be two billion more people on the planet, which is more than the total population was at the beginning of the previous century. that is over 260 000 per day, which means in nine days the population of my own country is born – in nine days! – and that of belgium in seven weeks. that is the world in which we are living. so if somebody thinks that when we are talking about those issues we are talking long-term issues, they are simply mistaken. this is here and now. and if somebody thinks that this is not a matter that concerns european competitiveness, they are terribly mistaken. europe is a densely-populated continent. we are locked into many resource-intensive industrial models, business models, financial models, structures of the economy. we are seeing rapid rises in the price of many resources. at the same time we are seeing the volatility of those prices increasing. already today, we see that those prices represent more than 40 % of our cost structure – compared to labour, which accounts for 18 % of the cost structure in german industry, for example. we are very much import-dependent when it comes to energy, and also rare earths: just take a periodic table and i will show you how much of that we import from various countries. taking all that into account, if we are really serious about keeping industry in europe, we have to focus on producing products using less energy, less water, fewer raw materials, and re-using and recycling them, which is basically what we are proposing in the programme which is in front of us. that is our competitiveness if we want to protect it. in the next year i will be focusing with all my energy precisely on the green economy and the question of how we can help re-make some of the potential which we still have in europe. so i will be dealing a lot with waste, proposing and reviewing the waste targets, aligning all those waste targets precisely with the policy which we are discussing today in the orientations of the seventh environmental action plan, talking there about targets and indicators which are necessary, and also addressing specifically food waste, plastic waste, building waste and, basically, trying to make that proposal. unfortunately it will not be discussed in the course of the current parliament, but i think it is something that we all very much need to send to the future. finally, mr gerbrandy, you said that it would be better to have a european action plan to guarantee well-being, and that this shows that there is another way. i think you put it very well. i would actually correct you in that last statement. it is not showing another way, it is actually the only way. but we do not yet understand that this is the only way. but the sooner we understand, the better it will be for us. finally, i would like sincerely to thank the rapporteur again. mr franco, you have done an excellent job.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 october 2013 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i would like to thank the commissioner, mr trautmann, for his very comprehensive and thorough report on the situation and the application of the legislation, which also provides many ideas for the actions we must take in the coming months and the choices we must make. what emerges clearly from the report and from today's debate is that, despite the regulatory efforts made by the european union, this single telecommunications market is still an objective, and this perhaps also justifies a new impetus, a new activity to be carried out, because the situation is still that of fragmented markets, which together fail to make this sector competitive on the european continent. we have also recently seen this loss of competitiveness in the acquisition of large european companies by non-european companies. i therefore believe that we must work very hard in this direction, aware that this sector can provide an impetus for all the other economic activities that we are trying to revive in the european union, as well as for public administration, which is also a strong legacy of our economic backwardness, and for skilled employment for young people. of the many points catherine mentioned, i will quickly take up only two or three. the first is the radio spectrum. i think that despite the results, stronger european coordination would have made more efficient use of this opportunity, and would have also brought much more to investment, new telecommunications services and also revenue for the member states, some of which have misused the allocation of frequencies, by auctioning, sometimes not by auctioning, in ways which were not prescribed by the european union and which have wasted money and opportunities for telecommunications. i therefore believe that there is still work to be done in this area. the issue of net neutrality - which catherine has mentioned and which is very important to her, as it is very important to all of us - is to combine citizens' rights with the quality of services. finally, a reference to the universal service, which must really be implemented to close this gap that exists and also - i am addressing myself to the former commissioner for competition - perhaps also to review the state aid rules and community law in order to achieve this important objective of the universal service.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, catherine trautmann has already made a very good point in her introduction about the importance of this sector - through its development - to other economic activities in this part of the world. i believe, however, that we have two emergencies today, two priorities that need to be addressed. you will recall that in lisbon in 2000, europe pointed to the knowledge-based competition model to the rest of the world as a novelty in the global market. but knowledge needs to be helped and sustained. for this reason, universal service is a priority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and then we have to create the internal market. the internal market is essential for consumers, who need certainty, transparency, security and optimal access conditions. this applies both to users, i.e. consumers, and to businesses. i think that the creation of the single market is really, together with universal service, the priority of our action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have greatly appreciated the work of mr trautmann, which is very excellent, and the work of the commission on the digital agenda. i agree with the proposals on the substance. the single market is a strategic objective for competitiveness, growth and above all employment. i believe, however, that we must speed up the pace because we need bolder measures to consolidate the market, to protect consumers above all and thus to make the economic, productive and industrial fabric competitive. radio spectrum and net neutrality and universal service are very important issues to assert the fundamental rights of citizens. finally, one last question about roaming. too much of a hassle . we would have preferred to have this unfair tax removed in 2015 and not postponed to 2016.
member of the commission. - mr president, dear mrs lulling, i will answer you immediately. no, the european commission is not considering another reform of the wine sector. yes, the wine sector needs to be able to work and to ensure the implementation of what exists. you said at the end of your speech 'take away their peace': that is what we are doing. i would remind you that it was not the commission that asked for the 2008 reform to be revised. there have been requests from, among others, you. i must admit that they were justified and were taken into account in the reform. but now i too say that the wine sector must be allowed to build on the measures that have been taken. moreover, the initial assessment of the 2008 reform is, in our view, so far rather positive. the new structural measures - you mentioned grubbing up, which replaces distillation measures - have proved to be of interest to operators, since the winegrowers who had requested them have benefited. it seems to me that, even though you have shown how much this harvesting has cost - but, you know, the distillation each year of additional quantities of wine which, moreover, jeopardized the competitiveness of other quality wines was also expensive and weighed on the public budget - these structural measures have been rather positive. stocks are falling, exports from the union to third countries - as you have mentioned - are continuing to increase, both in volume and in value, and, moreover, european wine is pulling in other sectors of the food industry on international markets. we shall use these aspects in the new promotion programme, the new regulation which we shall shortly be proposing to you to strengthen european agri-food promotion, and i hope that wine will benefit from this. the wine sector has also been included in the single cmo regulation since 2008 and, as a result, the political agreement between the council and parliament in the context of the post-2013 cap reform introduced some new elements, including a new system of authorisation for plantings, which replaces the current system of planting rights, following the conclusions of the high level group on wine and with the support of parliament, represented by rapporteur michel dantin, who, on your behalf, also insisted strongly that these measures be introduced in this single cmo regulation. in addition, other improvements have been made to the aid programme, most of them at the request of the european parliament, as you know, in particular the promotion of wines on the union market, the innovation measure and the measure for the restructuring of vineyards for sanitary and phytosanitary purposes to better adapt the union's standards to the needs of the sector and its development. the 2012 report you cited is therefore outdated, given that we have since had these negotiations in the context of the reform of the single cmo, that the wine sector has been integrated into it and that all aspects of this 2012 report that we could have translated into legislative acts have been taken into account in the context of this reform. to answer your question once again clearly, no, the commission has no intention of going back on what has been done. you ask how the potential of the internal market can be fully exploited. the tools available to producers have been expanded, notably through the 2013 cap reform. in reality, the sector must first be allowed to adapt to the proposed changes. further implementation of the reform should also further enhance the competitiveness of the sector, both internally and externally. i told you earlier that one of the instruments to be introduced will be the regulation on promotion, which will also cover the wine sector. the commission is currently preparing delegated and implementing acts necessary for the proper application of the support measures, including for the wine sector, as from 2014 and for the authorisation system as from 2016. in conclusion, it seems to me that what is needed now is to be able to maintain and develop the quality linked to a terroir, but also to respond to the market developments of supply and demand without leaving the sector to itself. this system of authorization of plantations therefore allows us to preserve, enhance and protect quality and links with a terroir, while allowing the sector to adapt to market developments. in addition to the other measures we have planned - innovation, research - which i am sure will benefit the wine sector, as will promotion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not compromised, and that the quality of the products is not compromised. it is in this context that we can therefore return to today's debate. our goal is to raise an ambitious challenge: to start a concrete process of reflection on the future of the wine sector after the 2008 reform of the sector and after the recent agreement on the cap reform. as mentioned, the commission proposal in november 2011, contrary to the guidelines emerging both in parliament and in the council, confirmed the end of the system of vineyard planting rights. absolute liberalization, which would have been liable to lead to a drastic reduction in the profitability of farms and would have had negative consequences in terms of reduced quality and prices. but the final cap agreement, while superseding the planting rights system, introduced a new authorisation system from 2016 until 2030, giving applicants the option of maintaining the current planting rights system for another five years. but looking ahead, the aim must be to overcome this layered, often complicated and burdensome regulatory system which costs wine producers. the preconditions of the previous wine reforms were quantity control, the various types of distillation and control of vineyards. the same reform of 2008 gradually eliminated most of the subsidies that justified this systematic control of the production and circulation of wine products. the commissioner, therefore, can no longer justify maintaining a bureaucratic regulatory system based on requirements which are no longer reflected in the current rules of the new com. the challenge is to create a wine regime based on clear, simple and effective rules. this was the aim of the 2008 reform and we hope that today the conditions are in place to make life easier for our producers.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, (microphone off) important that, despite the crisis, manages to guarantee jobs and support the national economy. in the first half of 2013, sales grew by 4 percent. the veneto region alone, thanks to its pdo and pgi wines, produces over one billion euros in turnover per year. the european elevation to the liberalisation of vineyards, which would have meant the possibility of planting anything and everywhere, was a very important achievement for our farms and our territories. but it's not enough. the eu must invest more in quality, and i thank the commissioner for taking immediate action to block the 'do-it-yourself' powdered wines marketed as prosecco, amarone or chianti, after my complaint almost a year ago. however, these fake wines in powder form continue to be produced in sweden and sold in the uk and other countries and can be purchased online on some websites such as amazon or ebay. for these reasons, i would like to ask for more commitment because we must fight against the illegal agropiracy business and because, as we all know, wine is made from grapes and not from these strange and dangerous mixtures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr de castro and mr lulling for raising this important issue, adopting the slogan with which mr lulling closed his speech - 'leave us alone' - because that is essentially what the winegrowers are asking for, which does not mean reducing checks or alleviating the need for checks, but simply simplifying bureaucratic procedures. there is a border - let us be clear - between the european union and the member states. however, i hope that the current revision of regulation 882 will also lead to some rationalization of these controls. today, it is estimated that each winegrower spends 33 percent of his time on paperwork. the control systems are made up of several bodies, which are also dependent on different ministries and sometimes have different interpretations. i personally agree with the authors of the question on the link between quality production and geographical indication. to call this into question is to mortify the most important asset on which european production is based, namely the richness of territorial biodiversity. we must promote a broad protection of geographical indications, overcoming the short list system, which neglects a large part of production that deserves to be mentioned and proposed in some way.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that the wine market organization is indeed a successful example of how european policy can be made. i myself come from italy, a country which has made the most of the defensive measures of the old market system - withdrawal, distillation - and perhaps has also made use of the new methods - promotion - and today wine is one of the few products which are successful in italy. i think we have now found a reasonable solution with the plant rights arrangements and we should maintain this legal arrangement until the end of this financial framework, that is to say, until 2020. i believe that the winegrowers are now well placed to succeed in europe and the world, and we should let them do so.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, this is the second time that 'prosec' has been used in reference to prosecco. i therefore ask my colleague: doesn't it seem unfair to use a name similar to prosecco to sell this wine of yours, totally different from prosecco? is it not misleading to consumers, who are very familiar with prosecco, which is sold all over the world and whose quality is objectively better and should therefore be protected, as the commissioner has already said?
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, commissioner lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, it is scandalous that it is still the member states, the citizens, who have to make up for your mistakes. i wonder how the commission could have miscalculated so badly and not even taken responsibility for it. the lack of revenue is not only due to the economic crisis but also to the lack of control over the large ports of northern europe, where everything and more is coming in without paying the taxes and duties due. i wonder if it would not have been more logical to use other resources already provided for. for example, we are giving turkey hundreds of millions of euros each year in pre-accession funds. couldn't you have frozen this money? we have already planned to allocate several billion to ankara and its partners in the next financial framework. let's go over these presents right now. this is just one example, but if you want, commissioner, i can send you an e-mail listing the waste that you should be taking action on instead of making your citizens pay for your mistakes. you and your group of appointed bureaucrats should have the good sense to resign for obvious management incompetence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize to you and to all my colleagues for not having anything to do with this subject, but i would ask that it be entered in the minutes. this morning, the car carrying me and my assistant was attacked by protesters and taxi drivers, surrounded by 20 people who threw eggs at it. the car turned back twice, trying to get to parliament. the police were there, standing by. the second time, the driver, very frightened, invited us to continue on foot because it would be dangerous to continue driving. we walked more than a mile, with a cordon of taxi drivers watching us and fearing that we would be recognized and subjected to further assault. now the drivers' service and the french police have told my office that it would be preferable for me to leave now to avoid further aggression because apparently the vote scheduled for later might be a problem as the taxi drivers are angry with the meps. i wonder if this is civilization and i wonder on what basis france wants to keep the double headquarters does it want to keep us here if it is not even able to defend us and if the police are watching in the face of aggressions. i can't vote, i can't stay here because i risk being attacked. i ask that this be recorded and above all that the french police and the french authorities be held accountable for this very serious attitude.
in writing. - i reiterate today my firm position on cutting costs and waste in connection with the dual headquarters in brussels and strasbourg. this 'double' payment is totally irrational, both economically and in terms of work organization. the estimated costs for the dual headquarters amount to approximately eur 180 million with co2 emissions between 11,000 and 19,000 tonnes per year. i therefore welcome the position recently expressed in the afco committee: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. it is time to reconsider this waste of unexplained resources, especially in a time of crisis, by starting a process of revision of the treaties. i also think it is important that members in a financial crisis should be subject to a solidarity contribution on emoluments, on an equal footing with all officials.
in writing. - the report indicates an inability to manage the european union's expenditure and for this reason i did not vote in favour of the text.
in writing. - this draft budget follows parliament's strong criticism of the changes which the council has tried to propose: it is normal that in times of crisis, especially in public finances, member states try to save wherever possible, but some cuts were unacceptable to us. we cannot think of not honouring the commitments we have made, or of stopping investing in development. i voted with conviction to affirm parliament's line, although i am aware that we all have to tighten our belts.
in writing. - i welcome this motion for a resolution by the committee on budgets for the financial year 2014. i would like to stress the importance of the vote in favour of paragraph 90, a clear statement against the double-seat parliament, which is a waste of taxpayers' money and time. we had already demonstrated our will by the decision, which was subsequently rejected by the luxembourg court for 2013, to combine two sessions into one; it is absurd, however, that parliament should not have the power to decide on its own organisation, i.e. where and when to meet. moreover, the dual location also has an environmental impact, undermining europe's climate objectives and credibility.
in writing. − in today's vote, parliament rejected the council's cuts to the draft general budget of the union for 2014 proposed by the european commission. as regards the digital agenda, research, entrepreneurship and youth employment measures, the appropriations proposed by the commission have been reintroduced into the project, providing for an additional eur 34 million. the same was true of aid to the middle east and refugees, where parliament decided to add 50 billion. the amendments are the result of parliament's responsible approach to the 2014 budget: the financial difficulties faced by the member states have been duly taken into account. the 2014 budget, as amended, will, in any event, see a 6% reduction in appropriations compared to 2013. i hope that in the conciliation process between the council and parliament, which is due to end on 13 november, a common position will be reached and not a compromise downwards in relation to the proposal voted on today.
in writing. the reinstatement of the appropriations for the european fund for the most deprived in the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 all sections is good news for all associations fighting extreme poverty. that decision has conditioned my vote in favour of the budget. on the proposal of its committee on budgets, which followed the amendment i had proposed, the european parliament voted to restore the appropriations for the european fund for aid to the most deprived to eur 500 million per year, which the governments wanted to reduce to eur 365 million from 2014. i will be uncompromising on that amount in any final compromise on the 2014 budget. i 'm not letting this program go one inch ! too many of our citizens are waiting for him to live... and so much for the little arrangements between friends of heads of state! the european parliament is here to defend the fight against poverty.
in writing. − by voting for this long and complex text, i wanted to reiterate my support for the union's programmes in the areas of research, competitiveness, entrepreneurship, innovation and social inclusion, which are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research budget is not undermined by the cuts in the budget. i ask the commission to advance appropriations for a number of headings in certain priority areas, such as horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+ which does not in fact constitute an increase as the overall allocation of these programmes in the mff for the period 2014-2020 remains unchanged and to increase appropriations for the digital agenda, transport policy, social dialogue, eures, the progress microfinance instrument and social entrepreneurship, special annual events and the quality of european statistics. i am interested in young people who are beginning to experience a united europe through that wonderful experience called erasmus, which the council has tried on several occasions to cut. the erasmus+ programme must be able to enjoy an appropriate level of transparency for youth actions and therefore a transfer of the budget of 11,5% of the initial erasmus+ allocation to the youth strand will be necessary.
in writing. − by rejecting the council's proposed cuts to research and employment spending for 2014, we wanted to send a strong and clear message about what the new priorities in the eu budget should be. we also wanted to cancel the reduction in appropriations for international policy, such as humanitarian aid for the middle east and for syrian refugees, and to increase those for the external border control agency frontex. the economic crisis must not become an excuse for making draconian cuts to the real interests that are most important to the european citizens.
in writing. - the time has come to reverse course, not least because the situation in some countries of this europe which is moving at two speeds is now critical. the relaunch of industry, increased competitiveness and investment in technology and innovation must be the basis for a new start and, above all, for giving european citizens, and especially young people, confidence in the future. for these reasons i voted in favour of the draft budget voted today, expressing the strong hope that it will indicate the direction that european policies must take in the coming years to get out of the crisis.
in writing. "know thyself", said socrates. this is the principle on which the own-initiative report is based, and for which i voted in favour. a better and more detailed knowledge of the oceans can only lead to a better use of their resources, in the sense of protecting what is scarce and using what is scarce on land. human history has progressed by means of knowledge, and adding to it can only do us good.
in writing. - we assume that anything that can bring benefits to the fisheries sector is welcome. the european commission has been promoting a number of initiatives to stimulate technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation in the 'blue economy'. in this context, it has been rightly envisaged that a continuous multi-resolution digital map of the seabed of european waters will be available by 2020. this will make a range of data available to a wide variety of public and private stakeholders. this is a good sign from europe.
in writing. − marine knowledge is key to promoting, developing and expanding the 'blue economy', which is the maritime component of the 'europe 2020' strategy, combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the multiplicity of public and private bodies with data on fisheries activity in the eu can be both a resource and a barrier. these data can be integrated into the publicly available multi-resolution digital seabed map. an ambitious initiative such as 'oceanographic knowledge 2020', with its broad scope and multidisciplinary nature, supplemented by fisheries information in the desired form, certainly implies the need for a specific action plan setting out medium and long-term objectives, as part of a concerted effort by the eu and the member states.
in writing. − in order to promote the ‘blue economyʼ in europe, the commission submitted the green paper on ‘marine knowledge 2020: from seabed mapping to ocean forecastingʼ. this forms part of the action to meet the targets of the europe 2020 strategy, particularly in combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation to achieve smart, sustainable, and inclusive growth in the marine and fisheries sector. in view of the importance of the fisheries data in the marine knowledge 2020 initiative, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the report by mrs neves on oceanographic knowledge was voted on today in plenary. it is important, also in the wake of the commission green paper 'oceanographic knowledge 2020: from seabed mapping to oceanographic forecasting', to contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives for the sea, by combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. to this end, i agree with the rapporteur that a digital map should be available by 2020 to provide continuous resolution of the seabed in european waters. this broad and ambitious multidisciplinary project aims to disseminate information to a wide range of actors interested in oceanographic data, including fisheries, with particular attention to key issues such as sources of information and types of data. promoting the collection and availability of data; ensuring the effective processing and networking of data; analysis of the benefit derived from the processing and interpretation of the data.
in writing. − in august 2012, the european commission presented the green paper 'oceanographic knowledge 2020: from seabed mapping to oceanographic forecasting' as part of the actions taken to promote, develop and expand the 'blue economy'. the blue economy is a global business model dedicated to the creation of a sustainable ecosystem, whose main objective is sustainable development, a form of development that does not hinder the growth possibilities of future generations, while taking care of the heritage and natural reserves that are exhaustible. it is not a question of blocking growth, but of economic growth which respects the environment and its limits. it will be an integral part of the 'europe 2020 strategy' as regards the sea, combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. to achieve this, a continuous multi-resolution digital seabed map of european waters should be in place by 2020. i am voting in favour of the creation of a digital map of the seabed, so as to create a coherent information system accessible to all.
in writing. − the european union currently lacks common legislation to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. the need for the union to be able to exercise effectively the right to suspend or revoke concessions in response to violations of international trade rules by a third country is therefore becoming increasingly evident. i therefore wholeheartedly support the proposal for a regulation of the parliament and the council, which is necessary to ensure that swift action is taken to protect the union's rights - in the context of international trade agreements - and to guarantee the european union credibility and leverage in negotiations, both in the framework of the gpa and in bilateral trade agreements.
in writing. - it is a fact that in the current global scenario, retaliatory episodes are not uncommon and that the risks of a full-blown trade war, for example between the usa and china, in relation to the new asia-pacific trading platform and the chinese currency's strong arm are recurrent. the rapporteur takes this awareness to heart and recommends an instrument without which the union is unarmed even in the face of repeated trade violations, and in any case in a relatively weak position when it comes to confronting other interests in emerging markets. i agree that the availability of a horizontal instrument, which is easy to use in a timely manner, can have a positive impact on this plan, without prejudice to the union's commitment to the principles of free trade. i also support the applicability of the measures to the services sector, which according to the world bank now represents between 50% and 60% of the gdp of the countries of the union, an area in which trade with partners outside the eu is now a structural fact and is also essential in areas of strict public interest, such as security, networks, health systems. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr rinaldi's proposal because i think it is useful to have a regulation which gives the eu an effective legislative instrument to defend its rights in international trade. in particular, a standard rapid decision-making procedure should be established in the event of an infringement and the ad hoc procedures used to date should be limited. this step strengthens the eu's role in defending its rights and discourages unfair competition measures from unfair countries. i believe that it is crucial to apply this also in the field of public procurement, as well as international agreements in the context of the world trade organisation and the customs union.
in writing. the content of this report concerns the protection of commercial interests to counter retaliatory measures or behaviour by third countries which breach the rules of the world trade organisation. the text is undoubtedly valid in that it will serve - by the very fact of its implementation - to dissuade certain third countries from not complying with wto rules. my vote is in favour because the country that is harmed will have greater protections.
in writing. − it is important to have a single legislative instrument to enable the union's interests to be defended more quickly and effectively. the european union has not yet had a single legislative framework to enforce its rights under the various international trade agreements. this means that retaliatory measures against third countries which do not comply with the agreements have been adopted individually by council regulations, following a case-by-case approach. i think the rapporteur has improved the proposal by introducing, for example, a systematic exchange of information between the commission and parliament.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council reflects the union's priority objective of effectively enforcing existing trade rights. this objective was set out in the commission communication on trade, growth and world affairs and endorsed in the council conclusions of 21 december 2010. the union currently does not have a common legislative framework to enforce its rights under international trade agreements. this proposal therefore seeks to remedy this situation and we welcome it.
in writing. - in the morning, parliament, in plenary session, voted on a report by mr rinaldi on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the exercise of the union's rights to the application and enforcement of international trade rules. the resolution pursues the legitimate aim of asserting the eu's trade rights, consolidating its credibility and convincing our trading partners to play by the rules of the game as laid down in international agreements, in a global context where trade retaliation is the order of the day. the rapporteur also suggests that the range of trade policy measures available to the eu should be extended to include the services sector. the proposal for a regulation also provides for practical cooperation between the commission and parliament without delaying the decision-making process. for these reasons, i cannot help but support a regulation which, by its very existence, constitutes a credible threat to our trading partners who are prone to disregard the rules of the game.
in writing. - world trade concerns us all, and although trade policy may seem like a technical subject, it actually affects the lives of all citizens. with globalisation, an increasing number of countries are participating in the world economy. the eu has a strong interest in creating the conditions for an expansion of trade and its position implies certain responsibilities towards the rest of the world. despite this, the eu currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. i am in favour of europe having an instrument designed for the legitimate purpose of asserting the eu's trade rights, consolidating its credibility and ultimately convincing our trading partners to play by the rules of the game as laid down in trade agreements.
in writing. − on 2 december 2011, the european commission approved the proposal for a regulation for the new european maritime and fisheries fund, which will replace the current eff. the transition to sustainability requires a radical change in the way we fish: the fund will provide operators with the necessary incentives to reduce the impact of their activities on marine ecosystems, to end the overexploitation of resources and to halt the decline of fish stocks, priorities which are not secondary to the economic importance of the fisheries sector in europe. i hope that the proposed budget will make it possible to achieve the objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and also the objectives of the integrated maritime policy.
in writing. − the establishment of the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), with a budget of around eur 6.3 billion, is an important instrument for the reform of the common fisheries policy. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which introduces a number of important new features. firstly, it guarantees greater support for small businesses and small-scale fishing, which create jobs and income for thousands of families in italy and europe. secondly, the proposal provides for the implementation of programmes for the vocational training of young people and the facilitation of their entry into the sector. finally, by strengthening scientific knowledge, using in-depth data and analysis and in constant dialogue with representatives of the sector, this resolution aims at a more effective common fisheries policy, protecting marine biodiversity and the workers in this sector.
in writing. − i supported the report on the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), the new instrument to finance the common fisheries policy for the period 2014-2020. i believe that the compromises reached can contribute to a realistic european fisheries policy. on the one hand, account has been taken of the need to reduce fishing capacity gradually at union level. the reduction must not be achieved by reducing the number of vessels, but by more stringent controls on compliance with the ceilings on fishing quantities and by a policy of renewal and modernisation of the fleet and replacement of engines, which will ensure that vessels are more energy-efficient, more selective and less powerful. on the other hand, efforts have been made to ensure the sustainability and profitability of fishing activities by supporting diversification, vocational training and the entry of young people into the fisheries sector and the development of aquaculture. the role of the emff should be to encourage the creation of enterprises in the fisheries sector and to support, in particular, the competitiveness and sustainability of small-scale and coastal fisheries, which are so important for the vitality of coastal areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal by my colleague, mr alain cadec, on the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), which is the financial component of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the aim is to provide effective support for the implementation of the new common fisheries policy: for an environmentally sustainable fisheries with the introduction of conservation measures such as biological rest periods or temporary stops and the freezing of subsidies for member states which do not comply with the rules of the common fisheries policy. for a competitive fishing sector through assistance for the establishment of young fishermen (under 35 years of age), support for the diversification of fishermen's income into activities complementary to fishing, investments in fishing port infrastructure, and support for innovation, including the design of more modern and environmentally friendly vessels. for an ambitious social component to improve health, hygiene and safety on board, vocational training for fishermen and conditions linked to compliance with the social legislation in force (no subsidy in case of non-compliance).
in writing. - as a citizen of the emilia romagna region, which faces the sea, i am generally satisfied with the text voted on today. the commission proposal for the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014-2020, adopted on 29 june, outlined the budgetary framework and the main guidelines for the financing of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and the integrated maritime policy. the current proposal for a regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund aims to achieve the objectives of the reforms of the common fisheries and maritime policy on the basis of the following objectives, redefined in terms of funding: promote sustainable and competitive fisheries and aquaculture; to promote the development and implementation of the union's integrated maritime policy in a complementary manner to cohesion policy and the cfp; promote balanced and inclusive territorial development of areas where fishing activities are carried out (including aquaculture and inland fishing); contribute to the implementation of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) will provide funds for structural aid to the maritime sector and fisheries under the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the objective of the fund is obviously growth, employment, sustainability, modernisation of structures, and enhancement of the marine and coastal environment. the fund, which will have a total budget of eur 5.5 billion, is also intended to achieve the objectives of the integrated maritime policy and the reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the new cfp is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the cfp. i am particularly pleased with the promotion of small-scale artisanal coastal fishing. i also think it is important to provide for accompanying measures for young people who want to take up this activity and the possibility of scrapping boats to reduce fishing effort. these are fundamental measures to revive the sector, especially if we believe that this sector can still be a source of employment and attractive for young people.
in writing. − the additional allocation of €6.5 billion to the european maritime and fisheries fund will help fishermen to comply with the rules of the new common fisheries policy, such as the ban on discarding, through the purchase of more selective equipment. it will now be possible to improve the safety and working conditions of fishermen by adopting a new sustainable fishing model that will enable fishermen to live off the profits of their profession.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the repeal of council regulations (ec) no 1198/2006, (ec) no 861/2006 and (ec) no xxx/2011 on the integrated maritime policy. the desire to reduce the alleged overcapacity of the fleet would have no effect on the quantities caught, because the latter would continue to depend on the tacs and quotas fixed each year. the proposal to catch the same amount of fish with fewer vessels puts many fishing enterprises, including small-scale or coastal ones, and thus many jobs at risk. while strict control of fishing activities can lead to sustainable environmental and social management. to this end, it is recalled that member states are obliged to respect the capacity limits of their fleet as set out in the basic regulation.
in writing. - i express my general appreciation and a declaration of support for the resolution tabled by a number of colleagues in the committee on the environment. the objective to be achieved is certainly that of a single, comprehensive and binding international agreement on the fight against climate change for the post-kyoto period and to overcome the current difficulties; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in order to achieve ambitious objectives, the major emerging economies must also play their part, together with the traditional industrial players, on the basis of a fair distribution of effort and the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibilities'. i also think it is important that the eu confirms and reinforces its leadership on this issue by setting ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions within ambitious time limits, by urging international partners to embrace a virtuous logic and by demonstrating how ambitious climate change mitigation targets can be combined with competitiveness, innovation and job protection.
in writing. - in view of the forthcoming un climate conference in warsaw, i voted in favour of this resolution which underlines some key points in the fight against climate change. the challenges related to climate change prevention, mitigation and adaptation remain multiple. however, these challenges can only be addressed through an integrated approach, which puts climate-related issues in the context of sustainable development, industrial policy and energy policy. in this respect, the eu needs to focus its efforts and establish an effective regulatory framework so that climate-related innovation in the industrial and energy sectors translates into a comparative advantage for the eu, putting it at the forefront of the global market for energy-related goods and services (a market with strong growth prospects). finally, it is important that the eu maintains a proactive role in the course of future international climate negotiations: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the united nations framework convention on climate change, which calls for the adoption of a legally binding global climate agreement by 2015 and its implementation by 2020, provides for the organisation of annual conferences between stakeholders, cop, to assess progress and gradually set new targets. the european parliament has voted today on the priorities for the warsaw cop, which will take place from 18 to 23 november. the report raises several critical points: the commission has also been working on a new strategy to reduce emissions from the transport sector, which is based on the principle of sustainable development. another key issue is the financing of emission reduction programmes: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the green paper to include the environment, climate change, energy and transport. the european union must take a strong stance if it does not want its policies to tackle emissions to be an isolated effort.
in writing. − climate change is an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet and is therefore a problem that must be addressed at international level by all parties; the doha climate gateway highlights with grave concern the significant gap between the aggregated effect of the parties' current commitments to reduce annual global greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and the aggregated emission pathways that need to be followed to ensure that the increase in the planet's average annual surface temperature does not exceed 2 °c. the important work to be done by the ad hoc working group on the durban platform for enhanced action to establish the principles and framework for the new global climate agreement and the means to achieve it in time for cop 21 in paris in 2015 will need to be based on the ipcc fifth assessment report, due by 2014. the 2015 agreement should focus on the objective of reducing global emissions to below 1990 levels by 2030, with a view to phasing out global carbon emissions by 2050.
in writing. − climate change is an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet and is therefore a problem that must be addressed internationally by all parties. i believe that the eu delegation plays an essential role in the climate change negotiations and therefore find it unacceptable that members of the european parliament have not been able to attend the eu coordination meetings during the previous conferences of the parties. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the need for a european-wide mobilisation to combat organised crime is a priority today. it is a question that now transcends national borders: more than 3 600 criminal organisations operate internationally in the european union. these are organizations that have developed the ability to infiltrate the institutions of various countries in order to carry out their money laundering and corruption activities with impunity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. another point of great importance is certainly the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office for the coordination of national authorities. finally, i believe it is essential to lay the foundations for a european legislative framework involving all the member states in the fight against mafia associations.
in writing. − the european parliament today approved the final report of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering (crim), set up in 2012 to analyse criminal activities and suggest guidelines for tackling the problem at european level. the report, which sums up the work of the special committee, proposes a european action plan to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and sets out a series of priorities for the period 2014-2020 which this parliament could only endorse. these include the introduction of a common definition of criminal phenomena, the abolition of banking secrecy, the elimination of tax havens, the promotion of the confiscation of criminal assets, the establishment of the offence of illegal manipulation of sports, the introduction of appropriate sanctions for cybercrime, the strengthening of the fight against environmental crimes, drug trafficking and human trafficking, the ensuring of rapid mutual recognition of judicial measures and the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office.
in writing. the work of the crim commission marks an important moment in the life of the european institutions. finally, serious associative crime is analysed at european level and the gradual widening of the range of action of organisations is highlighted, as a result of the opening of frontiers. the recommendations contained in the resolution, which i supported with my vote, provide a platform for action for the member states to develop, within the limits of national sovereignty. coordination between national legislation and the response instruments of the systems is essential to tackle the problem effectively. the objectives to be pursued: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the financial interests of the union; the fight against the proceeds and assets of criminal activities; an efficient and corruption-free public administration; more responsible politics; a more credible judiciary; a healthier business environment; a more transparent banking system and professions. a list which expresses the objective of punishing crimes and above all of stopping the process of penetration into the vital nodes of public life. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities and the european investment bank is a good one.
in writing. this report is a summary of the work carried out in recent months by the european parliament's special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the hearings were very interesting, with european experts in different fields sharing experiences and problems common to many countries. the result is a widely shared text, which lays the foundations for coordinated action at eu level: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in this case, police and judicial action is necessary to bring the authorities of the member states to cooperate in a thorough and continuous manner. the report also stresses the importance of targeting the proceeds and assets of organised crime in order to combat its illicit activities effectively. the economic and financial side has become the main business of the criminal world, and only if we can hit them in this area can we hope to stop them, before they irreparably infect the real economy, making it impossible for honest operators to survive. we hope that the italian experience in this field will be useful in europe too.
in writing. - we voted today in a strong message to criminal organisations, which are progressively extending their range of action on an international scale, as well as taking advantage of economic globalisation and new technologies, by forging alliances with criminal groups in other countries (as in the case of south american drug cartels and russian-speaking organised crime) to share markets and areas of influence. criminal groups are increasingly diversifying their activities and establishing links between drug trafficking, human trafficking, facilitating illegal immigration, arms trafficking and money laundering; corruption and organised crime are significant threats in terms of costs to the eu economy with significant impact on tax revenues of the member states and the union as a whole and an estimated annual cost to businesses of over eur 670 billion. we urge the commission to launch a european action plan against organised crime, corruption and money laundering, including legislative measures and positive action to combat these criminal phenomena effectively.
in writing. - the fight against organised crime must be fought with a concerted effort by all the countries of the union, which is why the report represents a positive and significant step forward in countering criminal organisations which are increasingly hostile and linked by interests which are often confused with business and economic initiatives. criminal organizations have infiltrated procurement, gambling, the exploitation of children and women, construction and often, sadly, political organizations. all the proposals put forward today are welcome and necessary, but we also recall that to combat the spread of crime in the trade sector, that is to say to combat counterfeiting and illegality, the customs system must be harmonized. whereas in order to combat the spread of drugs and the exploitation of women and children, different rules for the control of computer systems are needed; that to prevent the spread of the criminal power of gambling, it is necessary to prevent its publicity and to call for this sector to be harmonised by the european union and no longer be the sole responsibility of the member states; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i have expressed my favourable opinion on the final report of the crim special committee chaired by mr iacolino, because the european union will finally be able to have a common strategy, set out in black and white, on the action to be taken against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the guidelines that member states will have to follow in the fight against all mafia-like associations have been set out in a context of horizontal cooperation and full cooperation between the different police systems. in addition, all the cases to be considered as criminal situations and therefore liable to prosecution throughout europe have been listed.
in writing. − corruption, organised crime and money laundering are serious threats to the democratic principles and economy of the european union. recent observations proved the trend of extension of crime organisations’ operating range on an international scale. the number of international criminal organisations operating in the european union is estimated to be around 3 600, most of which consist of members from several countries who operate across borders exploiting the opportunities offered by economic globalisation. to better fight organised crime in europe and promote more credible criminal justice, more honest business practices, and more efficient public administration, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the european parliament has given a very strong signal by its vote today, bringing the phenomenon of mafia-like criminal organisations, which unfortunately involve a large number of eu member states, to the attention of europe. the european commission's very recent legislative proposals, such as the establishment of the european public prosecutor, are promising first steps towards a common response to crime. the european public prosecutor's office, europol and eurojust will need to have the right human and financial resources to fully carry out the tasks assigned to them. finally, i hope that the european commission will include specific clauses on cooperation in the fight against the illicit trafficking of organised crime in the association agreements and trade agreements with third countries.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session, delivered its opinion this morning on the report by mr iacolino on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the union must respond with vigour to the challenge posed by the worldwide spread of such phenomena, which are often intertwined and interrelated and require targeted action and appropriate instruments. the time is long gone when organised crime was a functionally and territorially limited phenomenon: today, thousands of criminal organisations operate in the eu, diversifying their 'portfolio' of illicit activities and exploiting the new opportunities offered by economic globalisation and new technologies. it is therefore essential to establish a coherent legislative framework and to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level, in order to prevent crime from penalising the lawful economy, honest entrepreneurs and citizens. as a member of the european parliament from the southern constituency, i can only express my favourable opinion of a resolution which seeks to promote concrete initiatives to deal with phenomena which are unfortunately on the agenda in southern italy.
in writing. - it is now essential that the european union can have a common action plan to crack down on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. there are now about 3 600 international criminal organisations operating in the eu. better tools are needed now to target their activities and sources of income, while protecting the financial interests of the european union. the cost of the mafia, however difficult to estimate, is estimated to be between 4 and 5 points of gdp for the eu alone, a reality we can no longer afford to tolerate.
in writing. − according to the united nations office on drugs and crime, illicit proceeds globally amount to about 3.6% of global gdp, while the european commission estimates the cost of corruption in the eu to be around 1% of eu gdp. organised crime is increasingly resembling a global economic entity and, together with corruption, has a growing impact on the european economy, with significant repercussions for the member states and the union as a whole. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it provides the necessary instruments to respond strongly and decisively to these phenomena, which are draining significant resources from economic and social development, public finances and the well-being of citizens. the main measures required are: the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders issued by the respective judicial authorities of the member states, enhanced administrative, police and judicial cooperation for the tracing of criminal assets throughout the european union, the reuse of confiscated criminal assets for social purposes and the strengthening of transparency mechanisms in public administration in order to prevent corruption.
in writing. − the presentation of this draft final report is the culmination of the work of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the aim is to produce, with the input and insights of the many personalities we met during these months, a text that responds to the need to combat in an appropriate way criminal phenomena that have taken on a global dimension. the european union is called upon to meet this challenge by equipping itself with the appropriate instruments to deal with it, on the model of the most advanced legislation in the member states. i am in favour of the eu adopting a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework to tackle the economic heart of organised crime, by strengthening judicial and police cooperation at european and international level, so as to create a genuine european judicial area throughout europe. to enable citizens to assert their rights throughout the union, it is necessary to facilitate their access to justice.
in writing. − the principal aim of the european neighbourhood policy is to strengthen the partnership between the eu and the countries and societies of the neighbourhood, in order to build and consolidate healthy democracies, respect for human rights and the rule of law. for this reason i believe that this is the right context to discuss about the on-going violation of human rights in western sahara. as neighbours and partner countries, we must urge morocco to continue negotiations for a peaceful and long-lasting solution of the western sahara conflict. the sahrawi people have the right to self-determination through a democratic referendum, in accordance with the relevant united nations resolutions. also, i believe that morocco should urgently release all the sahrawi political prisoners. we cannot ignore that the rights of sahrawis are those of us all. and we cannot ignore that one of our neighbour countries is perpetrating the last case of colonial oppression in africa.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy (enp) aims to avoid new fault lines between the eu and its neighbours by offering them gradual economic integration, financial assistance and political dialogue, and demanding structural reforms of their political and economic systems in return. the creation of an area of prosperity, democracy, development and security around the eu is an indispensable prerequisite for the union's integration process and the promotion and protection of the values and principles which underpin the european institutional architecture. unfortunately, political and social change in many partner countries remains slow and there are frequent abuses and violations of fundamental rights and freedoms. to this end, the union should strengthen the application of the principle of 'more progress, more aid', thus making its support and dialogue conditional on the effective implementation of the agreed economic and institutional reforms. i therefore voted in favour of this report on the enp, which sets out the essential guidelines along which the union's action in this field must be developed.
in writing. − this report, which was widely adopted in the assembly today, sets out a series of considerations on the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy, starting with the 2012 interim reports. the overall picture, as regards the eastern partnership countries and the partnership with countries in north africa and the middle east, is not showing particularly positive trends and suggests the need for a greater commitment by the eu. however, this commitment will not bear fruit unless the union imposes a number of conditions in terms of commitment by the partner countries. the report stresses that in the case of the eastern partnership countries, the process of integration and progress towards european values depends to a large extent on the choices and priorities of the partner countries themselves. in this context, the eu should maintain and strengthen the current differentiated and incentive-based approach to its neighbourhood policy, allocating more resources to the countries making the most progress.
in writing. − the resolution by mr panzeri and mr saryusz-wolski is a useful insight into the effectiveness of the neighbourhood policy and provides important insights into making the necessary adjustments to the european strategy in the 16 countries neighbouring the eu, with which we have been cooperating for almost a decade now on the basis of a mutual commitment to respect for common values such as democracy, the protection of human rights, the recognition of the rule of law, good governance, a market economy and sustainable development. the critical points identified in the country-by-country analysis are also starting points for updating the community's external effort. the data show little progress in the democratic process, some improvements in economic and trade relations and a weak recognition of the eu in the countries targeted by our programmes. the result is that the union is too cautious in its action and that we need to define a strategy for the two macro-areas of the mediterranean and the east, on which to refocus our interventions in order to make investment more efficient. an important work that i supported with my vote in favour.
in writing. - very briefly: we welcome the publication of the 2012 progress reports on southern and eastern countries, but regret that in most cases these reports and subsequent events paint a mixed picture of progress, stagnation and recession and illustrate the national situation without assessing the programmes implemented by the union or making specific recommendations on the allocation of funds under the eu's external instruments or development cooperation assistance and its influence on policy-making in partner countries.
in writing. - the ferreira own-initiative report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, while presenting a partial critical approach to the current situation, remains an unbalanced text and, for this reason, i have decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that this resolution, while welcoming some progress made, also highlights the need for important corrections. the 2013 european semester has delivered good results: the commission has also published a report on the economic situation in the eu, which shows a slight increase in employment, a slight recovery in the economy and a decreasing risk of a banking collapse in most member states. the specific recommendations, which address key areas such as public finances, competitiveness and growth, are showing beneficial effects. however, the employment performance is still poor, as a consequence of other policies. i therefore believe that there is a lot of room for improvement. i believe that the emphasis should be on the internal market and above all on the social dimension. supporting growth and jobs must remain a priority, as must strengthening the emu pillar and completing the banking union. the strengthening of the banking system will have a positive impact on both growth and employment. it will make it easier for citizens, and especially small and mediumsized enterprises, to access credit. in times of crisis such as the present one, in addition to macroeconomic objectives, care must be taken not to neglect priority objectives such as growth and development.
in writing. − the european semester, first introduced in 2011, aims to strengthen the economic governance of the european union through greater coordination of national economic policies, both fiscal and structural reform. this is a cycle of intensive economic cooperation between the european institutions and the member states, at the end of which the commission sends the latter specific recommendations, thus guiding their economic policy priorities and objectives. in this respect, european union coordination plays a very important role in bringing this long period of economic stagnation to an end and in reviving growth. however, much remains to be done. credit to enterprises (especially small and medium-sized enterprises) has not yet been fully restored, with negative repercussions on the real economy and employment. the revitalisation of competitiveness - based on innovation, human capital, scientific knowledge and the digitalisation of the economy - still requires a great deal of effort and must be a key driver in the european coordination of national economic policies. unemployment, especially among young people, has reached alarming levels. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls on the council and the commission to pay greater attention to this and to make greater efforts in this direction.
in writing. the report voted on today concerns the implementation of the priorities for 2013 under the european semester for economic policy coordination. parliament took note of the specific recommendations proposed by the european commission and adopted by the council for each member state: the common element in all the recommendations is the call on the member states to manage their public accounts properly, in pursuit of balanced budgets. the commission's view, shared by the rapporteur, is that the rules on fiscal discipline, accompanied by policies for employment, competitiveness and growth, are bearing fruit and that therefore the states must commit themselves to complying with the eu directives.
in writing. − significant differences in access to finance tend to accentuate internal divergences within the eu and the euro area in particular and create distortions of the internal market with unfair conditions of competition. while the consolidation of banks' portfolios is certainly an essential condition, the negative economic outlook only partially justifies these restrictive credit restrictions, especially for the most vulnerable recipients, such as young couples, small entrepreneurs, artisans, families who do not make it to the end of the month, the disabled. the application of the new prudential rules and banking sector practices in the financing of the real economy, in particular with regard to economically efficient smes, needs to be monitored more closely. in this regard, we recognise the important role that innovative new financial instruments can play in various european programmes and cohesion policy in terms of promoting public and private investment and we urge the commission to ensure legal clarity and transparency in the implementation of the new financial instruments in a timely manner and before the start of the 2014-2020 programming period.
in writing. - we all agree on the importance of stable public finances. but how far are we prepared to go on talking about budgets for the sake of fiscal stability without thinking about development, employment and therefore investment to combat the recession that is taking place? i think that, apart from the semester, the commission's recommendations and the actions taken by national governments, this parliament must reflect more deeply: we must seriously think about what kind of europe we want. in europe, certain reforms are now indispensable and we cannot waste any more time. two things must be done: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. - i welcome this report, much has been done in recent years to respond to the pressing challenges posed by the financial sector and sovereign debt crisis, with the aim of paving the way for a return to sustainable growth and employment, despite the many uncertainties in financial markets. however, the projected stagnation in economic activity in 2013 and unacceptably high unemployment levels show how crucial it is to accelerate efforts to support growth as a matter of priority, and in the meantime to achieve a growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. the european council, after a broad debate on the economic and social situation, set out the guidelines for the economic policies of the member states and of the european union in 2013, in particular: growth and employment. particular priority should be given to supporting youth employment and promoting growth and competitiveness.
in writing. − according to the international organisation for migration, since 1993, more then 20 000 persons died at sea. i believe that lampedusa should be a turning point for europe and that the only way to prevent another tragedy is to adopt a coordinated approach based on solidarity and responsibility, with the support of common instruments. the eu should do everything possible to save the lives of people in danger. for this reason with this resolution we welcome the intention of the european commission to establish a task force on the issue of migratory flows in the mediterranean. in addition the eu must continue to offer humanitarian, financial and political assistance in crisis areas in north africa and the middle east in order to tackle migration and humanitarian pressures at their root cause. but most of all, the member states must respect the principle of non-refoulement, in compliance with existing international and eu law. also, countries like italy, greece and spain must immediately put an end to any improper and extended detention practices in violation of international law.
in writing. - do not be fooled by those who are enthusiastic, unknowingly, about the adoption by the european parliament of a resolution on the need to "review or amend laws punishing those who help migrants" (which is not at all a denial of the bossi law). for two good reasons: 1) the bossi law does not punish those who help migrants at all, so much so that it has actually increased the penalties for those who organise the smuggling of illegal immigrants; the ep's resolutions have an effect comparable to water running on marble... 2) do not be deceived: we will defend the bossi law to the death, because we consider it the last bulwark against the invasion of illegal immigrants in italy and europe. once again rai news readily joins the immigration "vulgate", giving immediate air to the false news that the resolution would condemn the bossi immigration law: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that it is essential that the efforts of countries such as italy, which are subject to strong migratory pressures from the southern shore of the mediterranean, should lead to an appropriate burden-sharing among all the member states. i believe that greater cooperation between frontex and national border authorities and the implementation of stricter penalties against criminal organisations that fuel human trafficking are crucial to curb the phenomenon. i also agree that the application of the dublin treaty can be assessed with the necessary flexibility.
in writing. - the european parliament, in its collegiate nature, has expressed its solidarity with the victims of the tragedies suffered by migrants and has proposed political solutions to put an end to this barbarity. as an italian, but above all as a person of common sense, i could only vote in favour. two points, however, are worth noting: the first is that solutions cannot come from resolutions like this, which have no legislative value, but from the action that the competent institutions will take on these statements. the second is about a huge misunderstanding i read in the papers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen in the fishing fleet are protected from the risk of being caught by the fishermen in the fishing fleet. in fact, since the law in question contains no such reference, no one has dreamed of interfering with italian sovereignty in the management of immigration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it is the first time that there is talk of sharing responsibility between member states in the management of immigrants and this is very important for italy. unfortunately, today's vote in italy is being exploited by the left as the motion calls for "modifying or revising any regulations that impose sanctions on those who provide assistance at sea". the bossi-fini act was immediately attacked gratuitously and without justification. i would remind you that the bossi-fini act does not provide for any sanctions against persons who rescue migrants in distress at sea. the bossi-fini is a cause of shipwrecks because sailors fear being prosecuted for encouraging illegal immigration. this is political speculation on the lives of hundreds of desperate people and an attempt to weaken a law without which we would be at the mercy of unscrupulous pirates and smugglers.
in writing. - the need for a european-wide strategy to tackle the problem of migration flows in the mediterranean has been widely supported by myself and my italian colleagues. the recent tragedy in lampedusa, which saw 320 migrants die at sea, should be a turning point in our being genuinely european, not just in words but in action! only a coordinated approach based on common instruments and the principles of solidarity and responsibility-sharing can make a difference: there's a lot of work to be done on that. the creation of a task force on the problem of migration flows in the mediterranean, which considers both political and operational issues, can be a first step. the financial strengthening of existing common instruments, such as the frontex agency, which coordinates member states in the control of external borders, and the european asylum support office, is another priority. in addition, in the long term, the union and the member states should review visa policy and labour immigration legislation and conclude agreements with the countries of transit of migrants, in order to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of migrants themselves and to prevent them from falling into the hands of traffickers.
in writing. − i note with satisfaction that this joint resolution makes an explicit reference to article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which reads as follows: 'the union's policies referred to in this chapter (i.e. policies relating to border controls, asylum and immigration) and their implementation shall be governed by the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between member states, including in financial terms. where necessary, union acts adopted pursuant to this chapter shall contain appropriate measures to give effect to this principle. "any other comment would be superfluous, to indicate that all this has been completely ignored in all these years, which have seen thousands of people arrive on our shores, without the slightest intervention by the european union, and without the slightest solidarity from our supposed partners. i do not want to go into the political instrumentalisation of the bossi-fini act, whose objectives, in my view, are profoundly justified: i would rather see europe, which is always ready to appeal to the rules and the treaties, really committing itself to respecting what has been established in this area with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. the tragic situation in lampedusa is a cause for serious and necessary reflection. my country, italy, is making enormous financial and human efforts every day to try to assist the survivors of these journeys of hope, or rather of despair, and to rescue the victims at sea. during his recent visit to lampedusa, president barroso pledged €30 million in eu funds to support the local population. we appreciate the intentions of president barroso, and are confident that we will not have to wait for another tragedy before this funding actually reaches the mediterranean end of the european union. the events in lampedusa must be a turning point for europe and the only way to avoid another tragedy is, as we have been saying for years, to adopt a coordinated approach based on solidarity and responsibility of the eu states and supported by common instruments.
in writing. - we have been saying for years that tragedies like lampedusa cannot be an italian problem alone and that the european union must take its own responsibility. now is the time. we need to create a common eu policy for the management of external borders and immigration, with means that are truly adequate and with a clear division of responsibilities. europe and all the member states must be aware that the management of landings from the sea by means of makeshift vessels such as these cannot be considered the same as the management of the external land borders. the geopolitical situation in the mediterranean requires us to pay more attention to our common border to the south. it is really time for the european institutions and all the governments of the member countries to do more.
in writing. - once again the european parliament has not found the courage to adopt a strong resolution that would send a common signal on immigration policy. when we have to go from words to deeds, it is painful to see the obstructionist attitude of the extreme left in europe. today too, they have tried to the utmost to block the allocation of new funds to the frontex programme, the main community instrument for the control of the euro-mediterranean borders. their attempt, which would have exposed us to the risk of wild migratory flows, has failed, but we cannot afford to let our guard down. europe without borders is not a europe without rules on migration flows.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i totally support the request to suspend the agreement between the european union and the us on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data for the purposes of the terrorist finance tracking program. i strongly believe that any transfer of personal data must comply with eu and member state law and with fundamental rights obligations, including those relating to privacy and data protection. for this reason, given the reports of several newspapers, whereby documents were revealed that the nsa would have had access to the swift banking data outside the framework of the eu-us tftp agreement, i believe that the eu should urgently deliberate carefully on the human rights implications of any future data exchange alternatives which fully respect data protection principles, especially the necessity and proportionality test.
in writing. - it is good not to confuse the questions: the swift agreement is a great tool in the fight against international terrorism, and cooperation between the two largest economies in the world, the us and the eu, is necessary to achieve this fundamental objective. the other is the spying by the nsa, which has not yet been fully clarified, and i would therefore be much more cautious in assessing it. what i want, and what is voted for, is respect for the laws applicable in europe while remaining partners in this battle which is so important to us.
in writing. − in the summer of 2013, the libe committee was tasked with carrying out an inquiry into alleged mass spying activities carried out by the national security agency (nsa) against european citizens. the results of the investigation were rather poor: we have, however, been able to verify that these nsa activities have been carried out with legal cover under us and international law. the commission and europol have also clarified that there is no reason to believe that the united states has failed to comply with the provisions of the swift agreement, which governs the transfer of banking data to the united states in the context of the fight against terrorism. a suspension of this treaty by the european union would therefore have no real and proven justification at this time.
in writing. − the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data from the european union to the united states for the purposes of the terrorist financial transaction tracking program (hereinafter referred to as 'the agreement') entered into force on 1 august 2010. according to press releases in recent days, the us national security agency (nsa) has allegedly had direct access to the it systems of several private companies and to financial messaging concerning financial transfers and related data through an international financial messaging service provider currently subject to the agreement. as the eu's main objective is to promote individual freedoms, security measures, including anti-terrorism measures, must be pursued through the rule of law and must be subject to fundamental rights obligations, including those relating to privacy and data protection. we therefore believe that any transfer of personal data must comply with union and member state law and fundamental rights obligations, including those relating to privacy and data protection.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the national states must as soon as possible authorise europol's cybercrime centre to conduct a thorough investigation into the alleged unauthorised access of us authorities to protected data of european citizens.
in writing. - by adopting this draft amended budget as a matter of urgency to compensate for the revenue shortfall caused by the reduction in customs revenue, we have succeeded, after a long negotiation, in preventing the commission from being unable to honour its financial commitments from mid-november. a full-blown shutdown is in the offing. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which is nevertheless a provisional measure: i hope very much that the council will adopt the other necessary amendments quickly.
in writing. − in the current difficult economic environment, the promotion of environmental protection policies may seem to be a secondary objective, if not an obstacle to growth and competitiveness. environmental action, of course, sometimes involves very high costs, but it also creates benefits that neither public finance nor private investors can ignore. in this light, we need environmental policies that provide a clear and transparent legal framework that enables economic operators to reap these benefits, thereby becoming true catalysts of 'eco-innovation', generating efficiency, competitiveness, growth and jobs, with cross-cutting benefits across many industrial sectors. the seventh environment action programme (eap), by integrating the objectives of environmental policy with all the other sectoral policies of the european union, is geared in this direction and has therefore found my favourable vote. growth and competitiveness on the one hand and environmental protection on the other can no longer travel on separate tracks. we owe it to future generations, to our children, who, like us, claim the right to live in harmony with the natural environment while maintaining future levels of consumption and well-being no lower than today's.
in writing. - i don't think there are people in this room who don't care about the environment: we all live on the same planet, and i believe that we all want to protect it. but what sets me apart from the environmental fundamentalists is that i have a broader vision, open to multiple perspectives: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and it is not enough to simply assess environmental measures without taking due account of the possible impacts they may have on everything around them, starting with the economic and social sphere. there is another question to consider: the european union is a very important player on the world stage, and i wonder why it is not able to impose minimum environmental standards on its external partners, starting with the new giants in the making, china for example. if we do not act globally, it is basically useless to insist on internal measures, sometimes just but sometimes perhaps too extreme. if we really care about the environment, we must make this principle of defence, protection and exploitation apply everywhere: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the community.
in writing. the european parliament, in plenary session, voted this morning on a report by mr franco on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on a general union action programme on the environment up to 2020. in the current context of economic crisis and austerity, focusing on environmental policies can be perceived as an obstacle to economic growth and employment. overcoming this dualistic vision and moving towards an approach that effectively combines environmental and economic concerns is the union's key challenge, which is to promote the principles of sustainable development, 'smart' consumption and 'green' growth in the action programme. this requires a great deal of legislative and policy effort, from the development of adequate, coherent and scientifically sound environmental legislation to the creation of international environmental governance, in which the union is the guide and reference point not only for third countries and member states but also for community citizens, to whom educational and information initiatives are addressed to strengthen their commitment to the environment. for these reasons, i cannot deny my support for a resolution which seeks to reconcile the complex relationship between economic activities and environmental protection.
in writing. - i am pleased to support this report and i am satisfied with the fruitful negotiations concluded with the envi committee and the council, which have made it possible to reach a general agreement to conclude the dossier at first reading. this agreement is an important step towards achieving resource-efficient economies and reducing carbon emissions: an economy that protects and enhances our natural capital, protects the health and well-being of our citizens and thereby enhances the contribution of environmental policy. with this action plan, parliament is sending a strong message that it is committed to reconciling economic and environmental policies by promoting concrete commitments to maintain a european economy that is truly competitive in the world. the programme outlined in this report sets out a general framework for environmental policy up to 2020, identifying nine priority objectives, the most sensitive of which are: the definition of binding emission reduction and energy efficiency targets, which will have to be thoroughly analysed in terms of impact on competitiveness; the development of a legislative plan to address soil quality problems that directly affect the agricultural sector; and reduction of harmful subsidies for renewable energy.
in writing. − it is a major challenge to maintain and improve the living conditions of individuals in europe and the world. i voted in favour of the seventh environmental action programme because it can serve as an important environmental manifesto in the european union for its citizens and the rest of the world, but also as a founding act for a european green new deal until 2020, capable of generating greener growth. it is not synonymous with decline but aims at the efficient use of resources, innovation and the competitiveness of enterprises, although to achieve this 'green' growth must be properly understood. to be accepted and applied more effectively, european environmental legislation must be based on sound scientific knowledge, aim for greater coherence and simplification, but must also respect the principles of smart regulation, based on impact assessment. the monitoring of the implementation of this legislation must be stepped up with determination throughout the european union, by strengthening national environmental inspection systems, involving more local and regional authorities and providing community support where necessary. in conclusion, environmental concern is a matter of responsibility for the eu, for third countries, but also and above all for individuals.
in writing. − the new general environment action programme, which sets out a general framework for environmental policy up to 2020 and identifies its priority objectives, aims to foster the transition to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy, to protect and enhance natural capital and to safeguard the health and well-being of european citizens. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the current legislative framework on basic safety standards against the dangers of exposure to ionising radiation - which has developed over a rather long period of time since the euratom treaty of 1957 - is now somewhat outdated or inconsistent. the proposal for a council directive to update and rationalise existing legislation will allow for more effective and timely application of health safety standards against the dangers arising from ionising radiation to workers, patients and other individuals exposed to this type of radiation. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the report by mr ulmer on the dangers of exposure to ionizing radiation and the council proposal on this subject were voted on today in plenary. the council proposal, based on article 31 of the euratom treaty, merges the medical exposure directive, the directive on the control of high-activity sealed radioactive sources (hass directive), the directive on outdoor workers and the directive on information to the public with the directive on basic standards (96/29/euratom). the objectives of the recast are to eliminate contradictions between existing legislative provisions, to improve protection against exposure to ionising radiation and to integrate the latest scientific information and experience on radiation protection into existing legislation. the commission has also proposed that the directive on basic standards should include natural radiation for the first time in order to ensure better protection for the general public. however, the planned registration obligations may generate conflicts of objectives with regard to landfills in relation to the disposal of different radioactive substances. to prevent this from happening, it would be appropriate to amend the requirements for naturally occurring radioactive materials.
in writing. - i gave a favourable opinion on the proposal for a council directive laying down basic safety standards for protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation because i believe that protection, especially for workers who are in close contact with ionising radiation, must be increased, subject to continuous checks and the introduction of ever more advanced safety standards. one of the aims of the recast is to eliminate contradictions between the existing legislative provisions. a further objective of the proposal is to incorporate the latest scientific information and experience in the field of radiation protection into existing legislation. in this respect, euratom legislation has always followed the scientific recommendations of the international commission on radiological protection (icrp). in addition, for the first time, natural radiation is to be included in the framework of the basic standards directive in order to ensure better protection for the general public. as regards medical exposure, minor changes are introduced to avoid duplication of work on medical devices emitting ionising radiation.
in writing. the proposal voted today for the recast of the council's basic standards directive is a further step towards improving protection against exposure to ionising radiation. one of the aims of the recast is to eliminate contradictions between the existing legislative provisions. the proposal has largely succeeded in its aim and consequently few changes are necessary in this respect. many of the aspects of radiation protection covered by the basic standards directive are working very well in practice; this is a finding which in turn indicates the need not to make excessive changes. a further objective of the proposal is to incorporate the latest scientific information and experience in the field of radiation protection into existing legislation. in this respect, euratom legislation has always followed the scientific recommendations of the international commission on radiological protection (icrp). the latter, in its 2007 publication 103, recommended that the changes to the existing radiation protection system now considered in the proposed directive be made.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr brok because i believe it is of the utmost importance to promote a clear and determined alignment between the resources and objectives to be pursued in terms of security and foreign policy. ensuring the resources provided for by the lisbon treaty, in relation to the priorities of the objectives set, means strengthening the eu's international and diplomatic role. i share the will to strengthen the transatlantic partnership, one of the fundamental pillars of the cfsp, as well as the commitment to the middle east peace process and to economic and political cooperation with the countries of eastern and southern europe. i appreciate the desire to equip the cfsp with the means to enable it to play a more active role and to have a greater influence in the international system in the near future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i firmly believe that in order to respond to the current global challenges, the european union must develop a new and credible common foreign and security policy (cfsp). in today's globalised world and with the emergence of new players on the international scene, the promotion and defence of our values, interests and competitive positioning requires external action at european level that is coherent, systematic and strong. only in this way will europe, the world's leading importer and exporter, be able to assert its decisive economic and trade weight in the dynamics of international politics. the european union must, however, clearly define and implement its strategic objectives through the effective involvement of the european parliament and all the member states.
in writing. - the european union's foreign policy is virtually non-existent, and the establishment of the high representative, currently baroness catherine ashton, has also proved to be a major failure. the european states continue to act independently, sometimes even taking conflicting decisions, in all parts of the world: i think this is quite normal, because sometimes there are long historical, cultural and economic relations which cannot be put aside and replaced by an alleged, if non-existent, common european interest. what i find unacceptable is the total inadequacy of the eu's relations with its partners: i do not know whether it is because of the weakness of baroness ashton or for other reasons, but the fact is that europe cannot count on anything, and that is unacceptable. the last, important, scenario in which the european union is showing all its nullity is represented by the syrian reality: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore clear that something is wrong with this european union, even in the field of foreign policy.
in writing. − the global financial crisis and the growing emergence of new emerging economies pose important political, economic, social, cultural and environmental challenges: collective and united action at union level and the forging of alliances to promote and maintain peace, security, social progress, prosperity, cultural diversity, as well as democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are therefore necessary to address these challenges. for these reasons, the european union is called upon to defend the interests of its citizens in a determined and uniform manner, basing its policies at all times on the promotion of the fundamental values on which the union is founded (democracy, the rule of law and human rights, social justice and the fight against poverty) and on respect for other countries. at the same time, foreign policy must be flexible in responding to emerging threats and challenges in areas such as health, energy, climate change and access to water, each of which can have an impact on political priorities and the international economy.
in writing. − a few years after the member states have transposed the commission's amendment proposals on electronic communications in the union, the internal market for electronic communications is still incomplete. i agree with the rapporteur that the package proposed by the commission was initially designed to provide regulatory certainty for the sector, whereas it should have been seen as part of a wider design to ensure the necessary conditions to stimulate investment and competition. taking account of the economic crisis, the social context and the potential of this sector in terms of growth and job creation, i draw the commission's attention to the need to present a comprehensive and definitive package of legislative proposals to produce a genuine internal single market for electronic communications, offering concrete answers to the many challenges facing the sector. in general, i am in favour of the idea of a single european passport provided that the necessary accompanying measures are taken in the areas of supervision, tax dumping, consumer, labour and personal data protection. in particular, i believe that fragmentation of the rules applicable to the different member states should be avoided.
in writing. − promoting trade between member states is a goal we keep repeating. however, when it comes to putting in place all the conditions that can help achieve this goal, we seem a little hesitant. in this case, it is the commission which has not proposed a single legislative package for everything that concerns electronic communications, from the single telecommunications market to data protection, roaming, net neutrality and everything that is or will be connected. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that parliament has a duty to promote legislative simplification and to deal with matters in the context of a network of links, instead of being bound, as often happens, by a rule decided years ago (and perhaps changed after two years) without which we could change the direction of certain aspects of this europe. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs trautmann.
in writing. - the report by mr trautmann on electronic communications was voted on in plenary today. we know that in november 2009 the parliament and the council approved the commission's proposals to amend the union's framework for electronic communications. however, only a small minority of member states have transposed the rules within the timeframe, and the last member states notified full transposition only in january 2013. the first assessment to be made is that the internal market for electronic communications is still incomplete; there is no pan-european carrier, for example. in view of the economic crisis, the social context and the power of this sector in terms of growth and job creation, it is essential that the commission considers a sound strategy that offers a response to all the challenges facing the sector. i support the idea of a single european passport and the further development of the concept of net neutrality. however, these issues are difficult and sensitive and therefore require in-depth consultation and analysis.
in writing. − the persistence of differences in the implementation and regulatory framework between member states is responsible for high costs for operators, which discourage investment and the development of a single telecommunications market. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a stable and transparent regulatory framework in the electronic communications sector is the prerequisite for healthy competition, which encourages innovation and investment in a virtuous circle for the benefit of the european union's competitiveness. net neutrality (consumers' non-discriminatory access to network services) is a key step in this journey towards a more integrated electronic communications market, capable of generating economic growth and jobs and of offering competitive prices to end consumers.
in writing. − i believe that the generations of electronic communications legislation that have led to the current framework have worked well, creating a dynamic industry and generating very substantial benefits for consumers and other users. i am generally in favour of the idea of a single european passport (with the necessary accompanying measures on supervision, tax dumping and consumer, labour and data protection) and of greater harmonisation of spectrum allocation and auctions, to facilitate a european approach and avoid the mistakes of the past, for example on the price paid for spectrum. i am of course also in favour of the idea of further developing the concept of net neutrality and then making it an integral part of substantive law. however, i believe that these issues are difficult and sensitive and therefore require in-depth consultation and analysis. i also do not think it is appropriate to present them to the co-legislators in a fragmented way. the rules can't change all the time. rather, it would be preferable that these issues, as well as other aspects that this report will identify, be addressed in the next general review of the framework.
in writing. - the report by mr trautmann calls for a thorough review of the regulatory framework currently in force, particularly as regards the coordination of european radio spectrum, net neutrality and competition. the commission is therefore urged, after consulting stakeholders, to draw up an overall review that provides a stable and lasting framework and ensures harmonised and effective implementation by facilitating the development of pan-european suppliers.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, like mr cohn-bendit, i too believe that the amendments should be voted on, because otherwise it would be a question of expropriation of one of the fundamental prerogatives of parliament, which cannot be faced with a single choice: or leave.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, who is also chairman of the committee on culture, mr pack, on the work he has done together with all the representatives and shadow rapporteurs. i must admit that at the beginning, more than a year ago, i myself would not have believed that it would be possible to increase the budget. we have instead achieved an increase of 14 billion euros, almost 40 per cent more, at a time of serious crisis from which young people are suffering most. we can certainly say that this is an outstanding achievement. erasmus is certainly one of the best-known programmes in europe, thanks to which our young people can increase their skills both from the learning point of view and - what is even more positive - from the work point of view. i believe that the link that will be created between the world of university and school and the world of work is one of the foundations on which europe must work - as is the case with this programme - to ensure that our best young people can have a future through this programme. i hope that, in addition to this, there will also be strict controls on these programmes because we must remind students who go to another country for an educational experience that this is not a holiday but a way of being able to learn more. we must therefore be very careful in this respect, as well as in the expenditure on our students. it is a great step forward for the european union.
mr president, mr pack, it is significant that the year of european citizenship has been relaunched for the next seven years with a significant increase in the budget, even though we would have liked to see the commission's suggestion respected. the erasmus programme is certainly one of the most effective instruments for building european citizenship for the new generations, together with the other leonardo, comenius and grundtvig programmes within the programme, which provide opportunities for students and teachers in higher education, including vocational training and adult education. with the s&d group, we supported, together with the rapporteur, the maintenance of the brands and the recognition of individual programmes within erasmus+, expanded accessibility, improved the new european guarantee instrument for master loans; we wanted to continue the experience of the youth programme to support projects and activities of european youth organisations, and to maintain support for the european schools of the jean monnet programme and we included, for the first time, a fund for sport. erasmus+, together with the european social fund, the new opportunities for young researchers under horizon 2020 and the youth guarantee, is the signal that europe wants to send back to young people.
mr president, i think it is a pity that this debate is taking place on a day when many members, as well as many visitors, are still on the move, because this is a debate which is central to the future of the european union. the rapporteur, doris pack, has done a very good job, thanks also to the ability of commissioner vassiliou to understand the needs of parliament. erasmus, leonardo, comenius, youth in action and many others have made europe more than milk quotas, more than industry and more than the internal market, because they have not divided, they have not created demonstrations against brussels but, on the contrary, they have united, they have created the same sensitivity, they have made young people, researchers, students, aware of their diversity but also to seek a common basis on which to grow. so it was important to reinforce these experiences. it was important to give this direction with erasmus+ and to increase the financial allocation, invest in young people and promote sport. today we are building a little bit more of europe, the real europe, the europe which looks to the citizens, the young, the students and not to the bureaucracy. we are building the europe our founding fathers envisioned so many years ago. thanks to erasmus+, this can become a reality.
mr president, i am sure that many of us here are very happy and very supportive of the result of the battle to prevent the danger of erasmus being brought to an end or being reduced to a mere shadow. i am surprised, however, at what i have heard in this house and what i consider to be the wrong objective, namely that erasmus would serve to eliminate differences. we are "differentialists". we want the european union to maintain the differences between the various cultures of the european citizens. if erasmus had this objective, it would all be wrong and we would not have supported him. the proposals which emerged from the erasmus day live project are rather interesting, namely, for example, the adoption of the technique of exchange of residences and then, with appropriate savings, the introduction of more paid working hours to extend experiences which are conducive to integration into the world of work. erasmus must not take on the ugly defects of european bureaucracy but represent the best of european consciousness and culture.
in writing. in 2011, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation on a new multiannual programme in the field of education and training, youth and sport, which will cover a period of seven years (2014-2020). the proposed programme brings together all the programmes and actions currently in progress in the field of education: the european commission has launched a new action programme on the european union's role in the field of education and training. the commission has focused on harmonisation and feasibility: the administrative procedures and procedures have been streamlined and simplified. while welcoming the commission's proposal to reduce the fragmentation and overlap of the current programmes, i have already raised concerns about the limited financial resources allocated to the new programme, which could put a strain on young people's education and training. last week in brussels, after a long trilogue negotiation, an agreement was successfully reached on the 2014 european budget, which resulted in the necessary funding for the erasmus programme being allocated and increased. i welcome the achievement of parliament, which is once again demonstrating, with concrete results, that it is working in the interests of its citizens, in particular by safeguarding the idea of a europe that invests in young people.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i believe that the new creative europe programme, in the text which parliament has approved in the light of lengthy negotiations with the commission and the council, opens a new phase in european policies aimed at protecting and enhancing cultural and linguistic diversity and promoting the tangible and intangible cultural heritage, but also at making the european cultural and audiovisual industry more competitive. a balance between these two aspects is strongly desired by parliament, in the name of the dual nature of culture, which is an intrinsic value but also an economic sector, without which growth will be neither intelligent, nor inclusive, nor sustainable. in the wake of the most severe economic crisis since the second world war, culture, creativity, together with education and research, are finally becoming central to the 2014-20 programming as the only programmes to increase compared to the overall cut of 40 billion practiced by the council. in creative europe, cultural and creative enterprises, which were the subject of the 2011 green paper, are given full legitimacy as drivers of innovation and skilled employment, especially among young people. over 1 million businesses, 6 million employees, a share of between 5 and 7% of european gdp. the challenge of the digital shift, which has changed the entire chain of production, distribution and consumption of culture, from design to audiovisual, is fully recognised. the programme's focus is broadened from the creative to the value chain, from the development of the work to its promotion, to international circulation, but with an eye to the public, those european citizens who recent eurobarometer research indicates are increasingly distanced from the enjoyment and practice of cultural products and services, and not only for economic constraints. the sectors which have been effectively supported over the last twenty years by three separate european programmes - media, media mundus and culture - are brought together in a single programme but, thanks also to the work of parliament, retain their autonomy in terms of brand, budget and specific measures, while also taking in the cross-sectoral strand in which we have better defined the new financial guarantee instrument, entrusted to the eif, which will support grants and support loans from national financial institutions on the basis of portfolios specifically identified for these sectors, thus encouraging greater availability and expertise of the european credit system over the next seven years. the challenges faced by the cultural, creative and audiovisual sectors are common to the 14 sectors included in creative europe and are market fragmentation, undercapitalisation, lack of comparable data, digitalisation and audience development. creative europe helps to address these issues and initiates solutions in the light of a european added value that empowers businesses and broadens the opportunities for our artists and creatives and their works and circulation. at eur 1 462 million, the programme is up 9%. we would have liked a bigger increase, but it's a good sign. however, we must add to these funds the resources which, thanks to parliament, can be allocated to cultural heritage and creativity by the cohesion policies of horizon 2020, confirming that culture is not just a sector but a cross-cutting resource. i would particularly like to stress that the whole programme is open to participation by countries in the free trade area and the neighbourhood and by third countries through bilateral agreements. i would like to point out that support for cinema and audiovisual media and all forms of multimedia is also possible, as is the support for works produced by television in collaboration with independent producers, especially documentaries, children's programmes and animation. in culture, particular attention will also be paid to non-profit organisations and support will be given to platforms and networks to support the european circulation of works, as well as audiovisual education, including through film and video libraries, and the acquisition of skills for operators and the access of young people and underrepresented groups to the cultural heritage of europe. in conclusion, i thank my shadow colleagues, and i recall the dear departed colleague mr bisky, and the draftsmen of the opinions, mr göncz, mr matera and mr ţicău, who contributed to my work with their discussions and proposals, which was voted on almost unanimously by the committee on culture. i also thank the commissioner, the commission and also the directors-general of the dg for culture and the irish and lithuanian presidencies for the good work they have done together. i hope that in this way a new europe will be born more on the basis of a cultural and political project than on the basis of an economic and financial one.
mr president, many citizens and many associations often ask me whether there is a tool in europe to help protect and promote cultural diversity, the possibility of strengthening the competitiveness of the cultural and creative sectors in order also to promote the objectives set and set for ourselves in the europe 2020 strategy. or they ask me whether the european union can in any way support the capacity of the european cultural and creative sectors to operate also at transnational level, to promote the circulation of works and cultural and creative workers, to strengthen the financial capacity of the cultural sectors and of the small and mediumsized enterprises and organisations operating in this sector. i can assure these citizens and associations today that the answer is yes. the instrument exists and is called 'creative europe', the programme we will be adopting tomorrow which invests in this sector, including an increase in the budget. this is the right thing to do, considering that it is cultural enterprises that are the most dynamic, the least affected by the crisis and the ones that offer job opportunities.
mr president, commissioner, the excellent work of mrs costa allows the commission to look again at the development of this programme, which is very important for many reasons, as has been mentioned. culture has an economic value too and in a difficult time like this it is good not to forget that. but culture is above all the identity of peoples and must therefore be recognized as a means of enhancing differences and drawing all the benefits that can be derived from this. i think it is important for that reason to dwell for a moment on a point which the rapporteur has raised, namely the training of the public. we must not assume that access to cultural activities is automatic and that everyone has this tendency. so we have to think about a training path that starts from the levels of school training for the youngest up to the whole life of people in such a way ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
member of the commission. − mr president, once again i would like to thank very warmly the rapporteur of this programme, silvia costa, the co-rapporteurs and all of you who have been involved. you have supported the ambition of the commission’s proposal from the very beginning and left your own imprint on the new programme. i am happy to see that parliament shares the commission’s vision of the importance of culture in the creative sectors for both the well-being of our societies and for the generation of growth and jobs. thanks to creative europe we will be able to fund artists and cultural professionals to work across borders and reach new audiences. i would of course be much happier if the original proposal for a 37% increase to the budget had been accepted by the european council, but i think in these times of austerity we have to be satisfied with a small increase rather than a decrease. without financial support it would be difficult for our artists to break into new markets. that is why creative europe brings a real european added value. cultural diversity lies at the very heart of the european idea. creative europe will support the people and the organisations who shape and renew that diversity. that is why the programme deserves your full support and i thank you in advance for that.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i thank all those who have spoken for underlining the value of the result achieved, including this budget cut which, as commissioner vassiliou rightly pointed out a short while ago, parliament has done everything possible to avoid confirming. the figures are still a slight increase, but still an increase in creative europe's resources compared with the previous week. i thank you for some of your comments and some of your highlights. i would also like to remind my colleague, mr paliadeli, who pointed out that cultural heritage was not included in creative europe, that in reality the promotion of cultural heritage, alongside cultural diversity, was included by myself and other colleagues in parliament, even with the possibility of - and i would therefore ask the commissioner to fight for this to be observed during implementation - a strong complementarity of this programme with the erasmus programmes, also for young artists and for professionals in the arts and culture, with the programme for cultural tourism, with the programmes especially of the structural funds which may in this case also provide for hardware interventions on heritage, in addition to the digitisation of the halls and other more significant interventions than those that are admissible in the context of creative europe. i also remember that we were the ones who fought for a strong complementarity with the horizon 2020 programme, in which cultural heritage and the humanities were included for research. this means that there is a more holistic approach and that alongside the creative europe programme, which is clearly an important area for culture and audiovisual, culture is highlighted as a horizontal resource, as provided for in the lisbon treaty. i think that we will now have to make the commitment to the creative europe desks very well known to the stakeholders and to everyone, so that governance is actually strengthened, priorities are made clear and calls are launched early to be able to continue the work of the operators in the sector.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, together we have achieved a fundamental reform in the way infrastructure is funded and managed in the union. i am very pleased with the result of this work, undertaken together with the council and member states. the new eu infrastructure policy will put in place a powerful european network across 28 member states to promote growth and competitiveness. it will connect east with west and replace today’s patchwork with a network that is genuinely european. with the new ten-t regulation we have a strong legal basis on which to implement our vision of a core network, connecting the main nodes of the eu, to be realised by 2030 and complying with technical standards allowing ships, trains and trucks to run freely throughout eu territory. the core network corridor structures, under the leadership of the european coordinators, will be powerful tools for realising this ambition. my particular thanks go to the rapporteurs, mr koumoutsakos and mr ertug, who have been strong defenders of the methodology for establishing the maps. this approach has allowed the emphasis to remain on eu added value, on the cross-border sections and on missing links. the infrastructure plan in the transport sector – like the energy plan, and the telecommunications plan still under discussion – will improve infrastructure planning and preparation. eu financial assistance will enable these plans to be implemented. the connecting europe facility (cef) constitutes a novel approach. the european parliament, and especially the three rapporteurs, ms ayala sender, ms vălean and mr riquet, have been instrumental in safeguarding and improving this essential feature of the cef. i would like to thank them for that. the ambition and the focus of the proposals have been retained. in the field of transport, this means an emphasis on the core network, on cleaner modes of transport and on higher co-funding rates for cross-border projects and interoperability. in the field of energy, financial assistance under the cef will continue to support studies and, for the first time, will make a concrete difference in enabling highly-beneficial electricity transmission lines, gas pipelines, liquid natural gas terminals and energy storage facilities that could not otherwise be built to go ahead. the financial support under the cef will complement the measures on accelerated permission procedures and regulatory solutions provided under the new ten-e guidelines to speed up energy infrastructure development, allowing the union to reap the full benefit of market integration and ensure high standards of supply security while making the energy system more sustainable. in telecommunications, given the decision by the european council, we modified our proposal for telecoms guidelines, in may. good progress has now been made in trialogues, along the lines of our modified proposal. this means making the most of a scarce budget, in both cross-border digital services and broadband infrastructure. despite difficult discussions on financial instruments, and especially on project bonds, we now have the tools necessary to build an environment conducive to private investment and to develop instruments that will be attractive for specialised infrastructure investors. financing for transport infrastructure will triple for the period 2014-2020 to eur 26 billion. this eu funding will be tightly focused on the core transport network, where there is most eu added value, and we will prioritise east-west connections. after the european energy programme for recovery, which dedicated eur 2.4 billion to energy infrastructure, the cef now clearly triples the budget for energy transmission projects. in addition, the possibility of developing and using innovative financial instruments in the field of energy infrastructure projects will make the spending even more efficient and the financial leverage even greater. the adoption of the cef is the start of a new policy based on truly european infrastructure funding.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to a specific point. i agree with what has already been said, namely that in the network we are discussing, the corridors are one of the most important, if not the most significant, points. the governance of the corridors and the role of the coordinators in this area are very sensitive and of the utmost importance. our decisions on the implementation of projects depend very much on the ability to connect the european union, the member states and local realities. the relationship with the latter is changing from a different and stronger role for coordinators, who are assigned the task of organising the discussion with civil society. all too often we face strong resistance from the territories and the citizens simply because we have not confronted them before. the early comparison is in itself an important democratic value which the coordinators can solve.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteurs. we have now reached the end of a process of reprogramming of european networks which has lasted for over two years. i think that the negotiations have reached an important result, which leaves little room for complaints, except, commissioner, for the case of the port of rome, the italian capital, located in civitavecchia, which i think can be recovered. we must now carry out a serious and demanding programme of work with the states, which will have to comply by submitting sustainable and shared projects to make a real integrated and multimodal network a reality. the situation is clearly less rosy from the resource point of view for two reasons. first, the proposed budget for the cef is first 50 and then not even 30; the second: the negotiations revealed a distrust of innovative financial instruments on the part of the member states. so while i consider the programming to be serious and complete, i am not at all satisfied with the approach to infrastructure financing. too much tied to the logic of subsidies: we have not had the courage to go beyond the guarantees of project bonds, to take on the burden as the european union of the availability of long-term loans to drive these developments. that would be the real leap in quality at this particular time.
i would like to thank the three rapporteurs and the irish presidency for the excellent compromise reached. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the itre committee, mrs vălean, in particular, for the constructive atmosphere in which she conducted her work. the connecting europe facility is the strategic instrument of the 2014-2020 financial programming in the field of energy, telecommunications and trans-european transport networks, which, through the corridors, have created great expectations, also in the south of my country, for the modernisation of rail networks and for finally launching high speed. we cannot hide our bitterness at the cut in the community budget for the cef of almost 21 billion euro, which limits the scope of its interventions, especially in the telecommunications sector. to compensate for the reduction in financial resources, the compromise text provides for an improved use of financial instruments in the energy sector by at least 20-30% with the expectation, given the expected lower use by the transport and telecommunications sectors, to reach about 50% of the available allocation. i am satisfied with the priorities identified for the allocation of funds. the position of the european parliament was followed, which called for greater attention to be paid to projects to reduce energy islands and for at least 75% of resources to be allocated to electricity infrastructure. the cef should also include a framework for prioritising investments in electricity infrastructure and smart grids, demonstrating the union's commitment to the continuity of the objectives of european energy and climate policy.
madam president, we have finally reached the vote in the house on the text on the transeuropean transport network, and for that i first of all thank the rapporteurs for their work. i am convinced that we must continue in the direction of investment, which is the key measure for economic recovery and the response to austerity policies. i am convinced that the development of the alpine corridors in my own country, italy, will be of great help in the transition from the west to the east of europe, both in terms of road and rail transport. it is regrettable, however, to note the commission's closed-minded attitude towards italy in relation to the inclusion of the port of civitavecchia in the central network. this is because the port of rome - the capital of my country - would meet all the requirements in terms of transit of goods and passengers to be included in the list presented by the commission. one of the exceptional reasons for not granting this request is the distance of the port from the city, without taking into account the fact that the port of civitavecchia forms a single port authority with the ports of fiumicino and gaeta, and this could represent a strong point in the subdivision of port activities. i hope the commission will take this assessment into account. i thank my colleagues for the complex work they have done.
madam president, the tens are a key programme at this time of crisis. the whole package represents 30 billion euros, mainly for infrastructure that can restart growth. 28 european capitals in the network, including rome, my city. as mr sassoli has already said, i find it a real pity that the port of rome was not included in the programme: civitavecchia, a port of excellence at european level. italy has done well to include a specific statement on civitavecchia in the text of the agreement. commissioner, i would like to go beyond regret. i therefore appeal to you, asking the european commission to make every effort to make the port of civitavecchia a suitable part of the network system.
mr president, i do not know how many times in the history of this parliament or of the national parliaments a parliament has asked to vote against its own text. but we are doing it and we will do it because we feel a sense of responsibility to get a programme approved which we believe is essential for the citizens of europe: the 'europe for citizens' programme. i would have hoped for more effort, though. it is precisely during the european year of citizens that we are approving a programme which should be fundamental for all the inhabitants of the european union, as it should give them prospects, as well as the possibility of participating in the life of the union and of meeting their expectations, while we are faced with a banal and limited text, which does not give the right sense of what europe should do for the citizens, even going so far as to reduce the financial allocation. we cannot complain if our citizens, when they read the text of this regulation, feel once again neglected, alienated from the union and criticize what we produce directly for them. we were initially pleased with the results for erasmus+ and creative europe, but we are not really there for europe for citizens and, despite the commissioner's fine words, we still believe that this programme is really very far from the requirements that the european union has set itself. i would like to thank the rapporteurs of parliament for the work they have done and for the results achieved.
mr president, i am in favour of the european parliament's approval and therefore, in general, of the ratification of the amended public procurement agreement. it is certainly important to improve the rules governing international procurement and to improve global competition. europe has a vested interest in keeping pace with other countries in this field and in keeping its own internal rules in line with international standards and vice versa. the vote on the international framework is also in line with the common rules within the european union for the award of contracts in the internal market, on which parliament and the council reached agreement last july. i particularly appreciate the aspects of electronic procurement, which provide greater flexibility for contracting authorities in a shorter time. at the same time, however, i welcome the rules which seek to exclude from competition those undertakings which are found guilty of serious criminal offences or serious professional misconduct. i am therefore pleased with this work, which strengthens legal certainty, ensures a more effective fight against corruption and establishes greater coherence between the european and the international system.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of this house to a very serious incident which took place recently in norway: a journalist was sanctioned for wearing a chain with a small cross, like this, while reading the news on the news. the network director censored the journalist's behavior, as it would have aroused the indignation of followers of other religions, disturbed by the sight of this symbol that seems to be considered dangerous by some. we've reached the absurd: we give immigrants rights we have denied ourselves. if we continue at this rate we will lose our historical, cultural and religious identity and with it our dignity, because a people unable to defend its ideals is a people without values and worth, destined to fall. in this we should perhaps learn from others, the muslims for example, who defend their identity well here too. we must become the masters of our home to make these people understand that they are here as guests, demanding first of all respect for our rules, our traditions... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, not a day goes by without the expert on duty declaring that we are coming out of the crisis, when in reality businesses are closing and unemployment is increasing. it is incredible that the various heads of government do not realise that we cannot recover with an overvalued euro. today it is valued at 1.35 against the dollar, a 0.23 percent increase. the only solution is to force the ecb to print money, using the treaties, thereby devaluing our currency and making us more competitive. the latest reduction in the cost of money from 0.50 to 0.25% decided by the ecb has, as usual, benefited banks rather than firms and households, and the difficulties in accessing credit continue to act as a brake and an obstacle to recovery. the situation at european level remains critical as regards unemployment, with the number of people in employment far below the level before the start of the crisis. president draghi replied to a speech i made in this house that his mission was to keep the value of gold unchanged. today, that choice is untenable.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, yesterday i received an answer to a question i had about the amount of money europe is going to give to help italy manage the massive flows of migrants that a country like ours is forced to undergo because of its geographical situation. in the last programming period 2007-2013, italy received some €500 million, of which the paltry €26 million was used specifically to deal with the lampedusa emergency. these are shameful figures when we consider that in the same period of time, as much as eur 5 billion has been allocated to turkey alone as pre-accession funds. the new financial framework for the next seven years continues along this line: the european union has a duty to help the people of cyprus, and we must do so in a spirit of solidarity. i think that the crisis we are going through would have required much bolder choices, that is, giving priority to what should be our priorities. giving billions of euros to ankara is not one of them. this is just one example, but there are many other budget lines that would need to be revised. the funds for roma integration, for example: it is money thrown away without any result; or the funding of palestine, which often ends up in terrorist organizations. we have limited funds and a limited supply. let's at least try to use them well.
mr president, a great italian economist and a great europeanist, tommaso padoa-schioppa, said 'to the states, austerity, to europe, growth', in the belief that europe can really do what the states can no longer do on their own: to set in motion growth and development. but if we are serious - and i hope the council agrees - we must recognize that this budget will not achieve that. and it is very serious, as my colleagues who have gone before me have said, that in the worst crisis europe has ever known, which affects work and not just the real economy, it is very serious, i said, that we have not been able to do our part, and this is the first time that we have been able to disinvest, that we have reduced our investments and our capacity to intervene. today we are faced with a road that leaves not too many ways out: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we know the responsibilities: a council where little concessions were agreed, each taking something and so it was closed. parliament has done its part, and i thank the rapporteurs, president schulz and my colleagues in the group for that. something has changed and something has improved, starting with the revision clause which will enable those who will sit in the new parliament from day one to really change something, to change the possible. in conclusion, i would like to say that there are some things in this budget which are very difficult to accept: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is incredible that europe still insists, even with this macro-conditionality, on presenting itself as the europe of sanctions, reductions, blame and interruption of payments, instead of being the europe of support and aid, especially to the countries in the most difficulty.
mr president, the multiannual budget - despite the commitment and the important changes made by parliament, for which i thank the rapporteurs, who have done a great deal of work - gives european citizens a critical image of the union because, in the face of such a serious crisis, it reduces for the first time the resources for development and employment, for infrastructure, it puts a heavy burden on regional development with macro-conditionality and has not been able to finally activate the long-sought own resources unless it finally activates - this i must acknowledge - a high-level working group which strongly wanted parliament to start talking about it at least in 2016. i am convinced that it would have taken more courage, more europeanism and more capacity, also on the part of the council and the member states, to understand that we risk an implosion of our continent, above all a debacle in terms of political confidence. it is no accident that eurobarometer shows for the first time a reversal in the belief of citizens that europe is really on their side. this is our political concern, even if we acknowledge, for example, that despite the cuts made, an important signal has been given about our priorities, which are research, youth employment, culture and education.
member of the commission. − mr president, very briefly: when we make a judgment on a deal reached after so many hours – whether it is a good or a bad deal – i think the point of reference matters. it cannot be about our dreams. we do not live in an ideal world. therefore, as i have mentioned, the alternative to the multiannual framework is annual budgets, depriving europe of what is the best quality of the european budget, namely multiannual predictability. the alternative to the deal achieved over 2014 is the so-called provisional twelfths. this would mean eur 7 billion less in commitments for the next year. so this, mr sousa, is the alternative to a deal that it is easy to criticise, but the alternative really matters. i cannot understand how mr martin – who is no longer present – is reading the budget, because it is hardly possible not to notice the youth employment initiative, equipped with eur 6 billion for 2014-2015. this is the first time we have had a dedicated line for youth employment and i cannot understand how it is possible not to detect it in the budget. i think that reading the budget should come before judging it.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, thank you very much for this useful debate. our exchange of views closes long and difficult negotiations between parliament and the council over several months which showed, however, that we share many objectives and that our positions are not so far apart. this year’s budgetary procedure took place under difficult circumstances. despite this, we all worked together in a constructive manner which allowed us to succeed in establishing a realistic and balanced budget for 2014. let me emphasise that the lithuanian presidency of the council, and i personally, are particularly satisfied with the result achieved. we are also grateful that parliament showed its understanding of the current difficult economic and financial situation in many member states, and i am looking forward to a positive vote on the 2014 budget in tomorrow’s sitting.
mr president, today is an important day for this parliament. unfortunately, however, a cyclone hit my region of sardinia last night, and my city in particular, killing dozens of people. i therefore ask, also on behalf of my colleagues barracciu and berlinguer, that as a sign of solidarity, in addition to the ways in which the solidarity fund will be activated, this parliament may observe a moment of silence for these european citizens, victims of a natural disaster and to whom we are close in thought and action.
mr president, as mr uggias has mentioned, my region of sardinia was devastated by cyclone cleopatra. eighteen dead so far, towns and villages bombarded by water and covered with mud, crops and livestock destroyed. mr president, my request to speak - in addition to expressing my sorrow and concern - is also an appeal to parliament to make a real commitment to the council and the commission for reconstruction, so that the necessary funds are made available through the solidarity fund.
mr president, i would just like to express my solidarity with the sardinian people, a people who are an example of love for their land, of defence of their traditions and identity. i therefore join my colleagues in appealing to this parliament to do everything in its power to help the sardinian people.
the next item is the explanations of vote. i should like to inform you that we have received numerous requests for explanations of vote. we can only continue the sitting until 2.45 p.m. at the latest to allow the services to prepare for the resumption of the sitting at 3 p.m. all the remaining explanations of vote will be examined tomorrow after the votes.
madam president, i abstained because i believe that this 2014-2020 budget is a budget that does not solve the problems. europe needs growth and development, not austerity and rigidity. the final result, due in large part to the council's shortsightedness, is unsatisfactory. this budget is not enough and it is certainly not helping the countries to overcome the economic and employment crisis. europe must get back on its feet. more resources are needed for development, growth, employment, innovation and research - resources especially for young people, whose future today seems increasingly uncertain and precarious. much remains to be done; the european union is a political union, a political union of nations.
madam president, we have seen the council try to empty the co-decision role of this parliament on several occasions during the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework. unfortunately, we must also acknowledge today that in some respects the council has won, leaving parliament unable to decide as it would have liked and as the treaties allow it to do on the financial programming of the union. while i admit that we have today agreed the best compromise possible under the political conditions, i believe that this experience should serve as a lesson to review and strengthen our position and our political attitude towards the commission and the council, which in many cases still fail to understand the enormous innovative importance of the codecision process introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
madam president, after almost two years of work, the european institutions - the council and parliament in particular - have succeeded in defining the new multiannual financial framework for the next seven years. a plan of this magnitude always has its ups and downs between budgetary allocations and needs that remain unmet. however, a few months before the elections, i would like to emphasize the decisive role played by the european parliament in the negotiations which, it must be said, started downwards from the previous week by the european council. the european parliament, thanks in part to the increased powers it has acquired under the treaty of lisbon, has been able to demonstrate that it is a democratic body, demanding respect for the will of the european citizens to revive the idea of a strong europe, in the face of an attitude which, however, has always been one of resignation on the part of the member states. finally, i would like to emphasize that this is a path that parliament is drawing for the next parliament, leaving to future legislators in this house the requirement that the european union should have its own resources to ensure its own future and its autonomy from the extemporaneous assessments of opportunities by the member states.
in writing. - the multiannual financial framework has been an essential tool since 1988 for gaining an overview of priorities from the budgetary point of view, with the aim of overcoming particularly crisis and emergency situations. it is good that the proposals put forward by the european parliament have been incorporated in this new programming, with the emphasis on greater flexibility and effective use of own resources. it is obvious that excessive rigidity will only hinder the eu's response to priority circumstances such as unemployment, which has reached 12.2% in europe and 23.5% among young people, i.e. almost 6 million young people without a job. i am particularly pleased that greater flexibility will be introduced to advance spending to combat unemployment and consolidate research, and that the youth guarantee fund and the financial allocations for the erasmus programme and smes will be increased.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, together with my colleagues from the epp, because i believe that the multiannual financial framework is set up in the most appropriate way to try to revive the european economy, which is still mired in the economic crisis that has lasted for too long. the various lines of financing identified are, in my view, sufficiently well equipped from an economic point of view to provide effective support for the recovery of economic and productive activity.
in writing. − the agreement on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, while providing for a reduction in the eu budget, does not produce a serious analysis of the programmes that are really effective and those that should be abandoned. that is why i did not vote for it.
in writing. − i have chosen to support the proposal for a regulation on the multiannual financial framework 2014/2020, albeit a modest one. despite the fact that the eu budget has been reduced, i believe that the proposal is appropriate in the context of the economic crisis and the need for greater financial discipline. the regulation has a number of positive aspects: flexibility on commitment and payment appropriations; a clear definition of the principle of the unity of the eu budget; the safeguarding of outstanding payments for 2013; the establishment of a high-level group aimed at a more judicious use of eu resources; the commission has also taken a number of measures to promote employment, innovation and research. i welcome the increase in the appropriations allocated to achieving the objectives of horizon 2020 and the introduction of the cosme programme, which is designed to support smes. the agreement also provides for a high degree of flexibility in the commitment appropriations, both between one year and the next and between the different categories of expenditure, which is necessary to ensure a more efficient use of resources, especially in view of the reduction in budgets. the inclusion of the 'revision clause' will make it possible to modify the distribution of resources according to needs. the new mff is balanced, robust and sustainable.
in writing. - while it is the member states who open the purse strings, and therefore it is right that it is the council which decides how to spend the resources, as a member of the only democratic institution elected by universal suffrage i am still somewhat displeased by the less weight the institution in which i work has. however, i must say that the council was able to accept parliament's suggestions, after a first draft which we had completely opposed, and it compromised with our demands, which were for the most part accepted. that is why i voted to approve the multiannual financial framework for the next seven years. i call on the commission to administer these funds on the basis of effective projects, always keeping in mind the criteria of efficiency and solidarity, with the aim of achieving the objectives of territorial cohesion and economic development, without neglecting checks against fraud.
in writing. − the european union has, since its inception, provided itself with the means to achieve its objectives and to carry out its policies. it therefore provides for a budget based on transparency and fairness, financed entirely from own resources. we welcome the recommendation on the draft rules on the multiannual financial plan, which was discussed today. in this time of financial instability, there is an increasing need for specific instruments to enable the european union to cope with unforeseen events or to finance aid, such as the emergency reserve or the fight against youth unemployment. it is also necessary to regulate any situations which may require the adjustment or revision of the multiannual financial framework, such as those relating to the implementation of the budget, the revision of the treaties, possible enlargements or the reunification of cyprus. specific provisions should therefore be adopted providing for the possibility of budgeting commitment appropriations beyond the limits of the previously fixed ceilings. as we are aware of the particularly difficult situation in which member states are currently paying, a review of the allocations for the years 2017-2020 will be necessary in 2016, which may see the application of the method of allocating resources on the basis of the statistics available at that time.
in writing. − after lengthy negotiations between the council, parliament and the commission, an agreement was finally reached on the adoption of the budget for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the vote just taken underlines how the eu is working on the problems of employment, growth, sustainable development, cohesion and solidarity. funding has been increased for education and exchange programmes, solidarity funds for natural disasters, youth policies and the integration of young people into the labour market. the appropriations foreseen for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 are almost eur 4 billion for commitments and eur 900 million for payments.
in writing. − more measures have to be taken in order to improve the economic and social situation in europe, especially for the member states that have suffered most from the crisis. it is necessary to facilitate the budgetary process, optimise the allocation of investments and the use of special financial instruments and promote effective economic governance. i support the position of the rapporteurs in this regard, and i voted in favour of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − the european parliament has worked hard to reach agreement with the council and the commission on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the agreement also provides for flexibility, allowing the appropriations not used to be used to cover expenditure for the following period, which will be directed mainly to combating youth unemployment. more funds will also be allocated to horizon 2020, which aims to stimulate research and innovation, erasmus and cosme, the programme for the competitiveness of european small and medium-sized enterprises. a review of the multiannual financial plan is also planned, to be held in 2016 at the latest, to allow the new parliament to adapt it to the changing economic environment. i voted in favour because i believe that any further delay in the adoption of the new multiannual financial framework would be politically irresponsible, since it would threaten the continuity of european programmes at an economic time when cohesion and consistency are essential for the growth of the union.
in writing. − after months of difficult negotiations, the eu budget for 2014-2020 was finally approved today. it is important to emphasize that in the agreement reached last june parliament had already ensured that its main priorities, such as flexibility in the transfer of unpaid funds and expenditure commitments, would be respected. this flexibility is intended to ensure that eu budget funds are used in situations where the need is greatest, especially in anticipation of the decrease in annual budgets. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. − on 27 june 2013, a political agreement was reached on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the new interinstitutional agreement. the agreement was formalised by the council at its extraordinary coreper meeting on 28 june. despite the long and difficult negotiations in the council and at interinstitutional level, i believe it is necessary that the new instruments, in particular flexibility, should be used in the course of future budgetary procedures, not only to deal with emergencies such as youth unemployment or aid provided for under the eu solidarity fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund, but also for transfers between and within headings to encourage the full use of the funds available. in addition, the transparency and democratic nature of the whole budgetary negotiation process must be guaranteed, starting with respect for the legislative and budgetary powers conferred on parliament by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i consider that the text under vote is unbalanced and for that reason i did not intend to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. the agreement represents an important step forward in the reorganization of the union's key policy areas: i am thinking in particular of the forecasts in articles 7, 23 and 31. the resulting framework seems to me to facilitate the planning, coordination, allocation and reporting of resources and, above all, to also act as a brake on the tendency to duplicate and overlap initiatives, actors, levels of authority and competences. i do not want to underestimate the problems that the negotiations have brought to light, in particular the council's position in relation to the european order as established by the tfeu, on the one hand, and the political dynamics of the union, on the other. the rapporteur has duly pointed out these aspects, especially the council's particular assertiveness, as signs of possible cracks in the european architecture, also at the strategic level. however, i would like to take this opportunity to urge you not to dramatize. the economic crisis and political instability are subjecting the entire lisbon treaty system to a rigorous process of verification on the ground, during which it is easy to dwell on the shortcomings of the system's functioning and lose sight of both the results achieved and the potential still to be realised.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague mr trzaskowski on his work. it should be noted that the council is trying to show that it has not yet read the treaty of lisbon and the powers which the european parliament derives from this agreement, which is binding on the 28 states which have signed it. the european parliament has a right to be consulted on the draft budget, and the commission has a right to be consulted on the draft budget. that is how the democratic deficit is filled, and that is how we must act to show the european citizens the link between their electoral choices and the way in which their money is invested.
in writing. − we are in favour of reaching an agreement on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and of interinstitutional cooperation between the european parliament, the council and the commission. it is important to implement a common budgetary discipline and improve its functioning through cooperation. we therefore agree with what mr trzaskowski has said, because sound financial management requires transparency in the assets, liabilities and expenditure of the member states in the context of enhanced cooperation. each institution, body or agency will therefore be required to present consistent estimates of expenditure in the annual budgetary procedure. in addition, the european commission should examine the possibility of establishing a system of cross-references between financial and legislative programming in order to provide more accurate and reliable forecasts. the european parliament and the council must therefore commit themselves to maintaining regular contacts and to ensuring a timely and constant exchange of information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal put forward by my colleague, giovanni la via, who is also the head of the pdl delegation, to increase the european social fund by allocating the additional share to policies to combat unemployment in italy, france and spain. it seems to me that this is a concrete and effective response that the european parliament wants to give in order to try to revive the economy in the countries which have suffered, and are still suffering, the disastrous effects of the economic crisis in terms of lost jobs.
in writing. - i think that the via report, which analyses the budgetary adjustment for the strengthening of the european social fund, is unbalanced and ineffective. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - once again, mr la via has taken a balanced and direct approach to analysis and has been effective in his results. on the eve of the crisis, the overall employment rate of the eu-27 was very close to what classical economists call full employment. unfortunately, today there are 27 million unemployed, 23% youth unemployment, almost four times the figure in 2008. while the proportional relationship between unemployment and youth unemployment is generally stable and indicates a slight increase in the number of people in employment, a disaggregated analysis of the data on the under-25 age group reveals worrying and threatening elements. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we know that increasing the esf's budget is not a panacea, but it must be recognized that the specific institutional aims of the fund (from access to the world of work to lifelong learning, from training to vocational retraining) are precisely suited to today's emergencies. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i supported the amending budget proposal as it provides for a substantial increase in the eu commitment appropriations for three member states, including italy, in relation to the growth and employment objectives. the increase in investment concerns eur 133 million for the regional competitiveness and employment objective and eur 17 million for the convergence objective. this is an amendment which is primarily aimed at tackling the problem of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, with particular reference to youth. the impact of the change for italy is around eur 25 million, second only to that for spain.
in writing. - i am pleased that these additional resources, which were not originally provided for, are being allocated to certain groups in particular need. i call on the european commission to ensure that there is no fraud and that these resources are used to resolve situations and not simply to cushion emergencies that will have to be resolved in the future.
in writing. - while it is true that europe needs more growth and less financial rigor, the report by mr la via is a good one because it activates the flexibility instrument. in other words, it allows the financing of clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the available ceilings. in our territories, this means new resources for the european social fund for 2013 of more than eur 130 million. these resources, allocated exclusively to france, spain and italy, are intended to increase the allocations for these countries by a total of 150 million. these are vital resources, especially to boost europe's commitment to combating youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and with the intentions repeatedly reiterated by many member states in the council, including italy. more resources for social work, mr president, means more commitment to social cohesion in our territories.
in writing. - the draft amending budget covers an increase in the appropriations of the multiannual financial framework of some eur 150 million. these funds are intended to deal with specific problems, such as youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, which unfortunately are particularly present in some member states such as france, italy and spain. that is why we welcome the report by mr la via in the plenary today, because as members of the european parliament it is our duty to protect all citizens of the european territory so that they can enjoy the same fundamental rights. we fully agree with the report, because the most appropriate way of assisting the member states most affected by the financial and employment crisis will be to increase the european social fund specifically.
in writing. i voted against this report, not so much because it does not support the granting of these funds to france, italy and spain, but because it represents a disgraceful compromise to the detriment of our country. thirty million euros to combat youth unemployment almost seems like a joke, as it is a ridiculous sum and inadequate to deal with what is a real emergency: the commission has taken the decision to give this kind of 'containment' to those countries which were most opposed to the cuts to the growth and competitiveness measures planned for the next european budget, thus 'buying' their agreement. the alms from the northern european countries were accepted, and what should have been strong political priorities were abandoned. letta did not have the so-called "balls of steel" in brussels but, rather, he merely "slipped his pants" in front of the usual powerful people on duty.
in writing. − in order to address the economic hardship in france, italy and spain, the multi-annual financial framework increased by eur 150 million, as covered in draft amending budget no 7 for the year 2013. the funds will be allocated to tackle specific situations of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and of poverty and social exclusion in these member states. therefore, i voted for this proposal to facilitate the process of adopting this budgetary amendment.
in writing. - youth unemployment is a problem which has worsened considerably in many member states. parliament has already taken important initiatives to deal with this. growth is the main solution to the problem, but before the measures being adopted can have any real effect, further support to member states from the union is needed. i voted in favour of the report by mr la via because i believe that the european social fund is an important instrument towards this objective in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the strengthening of the fifg through an additional allocation of eur 150 million from the activation of the flexibility instrument to address specific issues arising from the final outcome of the 2014-2020 mff negotiations affecting france, italy and spain is a necessary transition.
in writing. − the report, by once again calling for an increase in resources to clear the 2013 budget, clearly demonstrates an inability to manage the european union's spending. that is why i did not vote in favour of the text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft amending budget with a sigh of relief. in fact, we have finally and definitively ruled out, for this year, the possibility that the european commission will run out of money and the us shutdown will be repeated. i congratulate my colleagues on the way they have managed to avoid this being a watershed event in the history of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the european fund which provides additional support for workers who have lost their jobs because of the crisis in their company. in this case, the non-metallic mineral processors are located in the region of valencia, spain. the application in question, which we supported as a ppe, concerns a total of 300 of the 630 employees concerned by dismissal proceedings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the plenković report, the text of which calls for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 300 redundant workers in 140 enterprises in the comunidad valenciana region of spain, which are involved in the manufacture of products derived from the processing of non-metallic minerals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i think it is right to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to give practical help to those important economic operators who are struggling to survive and continue to operate in such a changed economic environment and to continue to feed national markets which are suffering more than others from the effects of a crisis which has yet to be overcome. the hope is that these funds will be put to the best use, not only for the benefit of the company and the many workers and their families who will indirectly benefit from this, but with adequate planning for the actual revival of economic activity.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. in 2013, the european commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain, to ensure the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market. we support the report by mr plenković because it is our duty to support those countries of the union which, because of the financial and economic crisis that has struck us, are in danger of collapse. it will therefore be necessary to accelerate the mobilisation of the egf through a coordinated package of personalised services and to make it available as soon as possible. these services will include measures to reintegrate 300 dismissed workers into the labour market, as well as profiling, career guidance, training, intensive job search assistance, entrepreneurship support, reintegration incentives and support for business creation. finally, a policy of equality between women and men and a principle of non-discrimination must be applied.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to protect workers who lose their jobs as a result of the economic crisis and to reintegrate them into the labour market. in this case, the fund was used to protect the redundancies of some one thousand enterprises in the valencian community specialising in the manufacture of products from the processing of non-metallic minerals. the budget of some eur 900 000 is therefore intended to protect employment in a region such as the comunidad valenciana, which has been severely affected by the crisis and where the unemployment rate has risen rapidly.
in writing. − the recent economic crisis severely harmed employment in comunidad valenciana in spain. the unemployment rate in the region increased rapidly, rising from 9.61 % in the first quarter of 2008 to 29.19 % in the first quarter of 2013. the number of available jobs in nace revision 2 division 23 in comunidad valenciana decreased by almost 40 % from 2008 to 2011. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. tackling the issue of unemployment in comunidad valencia qualifies for the mobilisation of this fund. the proposed funding package includes such measures for the reintegration of 300 workers into employment as training and job-search assistance, as well as outplacement incentives and support for setting up a business. therefore, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - this vote allowed the release of eur 840,000 from the globalisation adjustment fund for spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the valencian community in the non-metallic mineral processing sector. when major structural changes in world trade flows due to globalisation have similar effects, action is needed to help, as in this case, the 630 people who have lost their income in an area already particularly affected by the economic crisis.
in writing. - i support the scholz report on amendments to the world trade organisation agreement on public procurement. i think it is a very balanced text and its proposals will ensure more effective access for our companies in the third countries which are signatories to this multilateral treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of ratifying the agreement on public procurement. it is certainly important to improve the rules governing international procurement and to improve global competition. europe has a vested interest in keeping pace with other countries in this field and in keeping its internal rules in line with international standards and vice versa. today's vote, which is international, also aligns itself with the common rules for the award of contracts in the internal market within the eu, on which parliament and the council reached agreement last july. i particularly appreciate the aspects of electronic procurement which provide greater flexibility for contracting authorities and shorter time limits. but at the same time i welcome the rules which seek to exclude from competition those firms which are found guilty of serious crimes or serious professional misconduct. i am therefore pleased with this work, which strengthens legal certainty, ensures a more effective fight against corruption and ensures greater coherence between the european and the international system.
in writing. − the text sets out the amendments to the 1966 international agreement on government procurement; the amendments concern the improvement of electronic instruments (electronic data banks, electronic auctions, etc.), increased security (excluding from the agreement undertakings found guilty of serious crimes) and greater environmental protection. there are also facilities for developing countries wishing to join the agreement. all these changes will lead to the eu having greater opportunities for access to the market of third countries. i am voting in favour of the above.
in writing. − the agreement on government procurement (apa) is an international, legally binding agreement on access to government procurement markets dating back to 1994 and is therefore, in most cases, limited to developed economies. we therefore agree with the recommendation put forward by mr scholz, because it makes significant improvements to the main text by extending the current membership of the wto to other countries. for the citizens of these countries, public procurement is a key instrument for stimulating employment, economic activity and promoting high standards of environmental protection and decent working conditions. it is therefore essential that the revision of the public procurement agreement is fair and redefines the award rules, promoting greater clarity and transparency. in addition, it will be important not only to establish modern award procedures such as electronic procurement, but above all to demonstrate that the benefits of such procedures outweigh the administrative costs. this will be a positive sign and will help to increase legal certainty and the fight against corruption in third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of approving this agreement on public procurement, which should cover, in addition to the eu, 15 contracting countries, including the united states, canada, israel, korea and japan, and 10 others currently listed as 'observers' involved in accession negotiations, such as china. the european union is certainly one of the most open markets in this area, which unfortunately cannot be said for most of its trade and economic partners. these new rules should ensure greater transparency and openness, towards what i have been calling for for some time, namely measures to ensure full reciprocity. if we give others the opportunity to participate in public tenders on our markets, the same opportunity should be given to our companies that decide to participate in those markets. unfortunately, the reality today is far from that, but i hope that we will be able to incorporate these principles of fairness more and more in all the agreements that the european union is committed to concluding.
in writing. − the agreement on government procurement (gpa) is a legally-binding international agreement which requires parties to guarantee transparency of procedures and equal treatment of bidders and not discriminate between domestic and bidders of other gpa parties. in many countries outside the gpa region, the government and state-controlled agencies are the biggest purchasers of goods of all kinds. hence, i voted for the proposal to expand membership of gpa to these countries, which will allow competitive european investors to enter certain foreign markets with less discrimination and trade barriers.
madam president, the european labour market today requires highly qualified workers with high linguistic skills, and these requirements will probably become even more important in the coming years. the european programmes for international mobility, such as erasmus, are fundamental instruments through which we have been able to give many young people a real chance of entering the european labour market, particularly those who, like the sardinians, are disadvantaged because they come from areas with marked markets and territorial handicaps. but today's challenges call for an even greater commitment to ensure a future for our young people, which is why i am pleased that this parliament has obtained a substantial increase in funding for the new erasmus. i also welcome the introduction of a loan guarantee for students who want to study for a master's degree. a similar experience like the master and back in sardinia has been incomprehensibly scaled down by the current regional government, so this will be really important for us.
in writing. − the european strategy for smart growth includes among its objectives the achievement by 2020 of a high level of education for the european population and above all the reduction of the youth unemployment rate, which according to recent data has reached 11% in the eu, with 5.584 million young people unemployed. i very much hope that the eur 150 million made available to the erasmus programme in the next mff will immediately remove the barriers to access to financial resources, reduce administrative costs and simplify the organisation and management of the programme. let us not forget that improving the employability of students, developing their skills, including entrepreneurial skills, and promoting active citizenship are all factors that stem from programmes such as erasmus.
in writing. - we have approved this proposal, which provides for the establishment of a financing programme covering three areas: education (and training), sport and youth. the programme builds on and extends those planned in the previous seven-year programme. in detail, the education and youth chapters should provide for three types of action: the mobility of individuals for learning purposes; cooperation aimed at innovation and good practice; support for policy reform.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the pack report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing 'erasmus for all', the union's programme for education, training, youth and sport. i believe that the text is essential to revive investment in the academic training of our young people.
in writing. - i agree with the general approach proposed by the commission, to which the rapporteur makes an important contribution in terms of procedures and funding. this is about bringing together programmes, building on the reputation of erasmus, to promote transnational training activities, and reducing the administrative and management burdens and barriers, including cultural and social ones, which today prevent many young people from seizing important opportunities. far from meeting the europe 2020 targets, recent data reveal an alarming backwardness in italy's university enrolment and an increase in the school drop-out rate. the risk is that you will find yourself with a workforce unfit for employment in the perspective of a recovery. i therefore call for special attention to be paid to accessibility by voting in favour of this report. if we are to extend the opportunities of erasmus today to a wider range of activities for young people - i am thinking of vet or the promotion of voluntary work - it is imperative that this decision be accompanied by appropriate measures of information, support, financial and material support. in this sense, although i am a firm supporter of the principle of subsidiarity, i consider it risky, from the point of view of the necessary simplification, to leave the member states the full freedom to organise the agencies for managing the programme themselves.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i am very satisfied with the result achieved on the erasmus for all programme as it achieves two important results: supports citizens, especially younger citizens, and strengthens communication about the importance of the eu. i welcome the decision to combine all the previously planned programmes in the fields of education, training, youth and sport into a single programme, while leaving the division of the various sectors into chapters: it allows for better access to information and greater understanding. it is undeniable that in these times of great crisis and scepticism, when we talk about erasmus, comenius, leonardo da vinci, jean monnet, the perception of the added value of europe among young people and their families is immediate. i am therefore in favour of continuing to use these names as genuine 'quality marks' of europe. we must all make every effort - especially we members of the european parliament - to make the citizens understand how important it is to continue along the road of european integration. i also find the guarantees for student loans to encourage mobility and to enable them to access funding to study in another member state particularly interesting. helping the youngest citizens of the union means laying the foundations today to contribute to a better future tomorrow.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 'erasmus for all' programme because it confirms and reinforces the idea that education and learning mobility are key elements in promoting the training and growth of the next generation. i believe that the dynamism and prosperity of europe's future lies in the hands of young people who, with their talent, competitiveness and skills, contribute to europe's growth. i voted in favour because this programme will be a tool for university students, vocational schools, trainers, teachers, trainees and young workers to broaden their skills and abilities and to stimulate and strengthen young people's confidence in the european union. an additional eur 14 million will help students to emerge in a european workplace increasingly characterised by the importance of foreign languages. this programme involves raising the quality of education, putting the union on a path of smart growth and economic recovery, which are key to reducing youth unemployment rates, which now affect more than six million young people. i welcome this project as it focuses on priorities such as education and training, which are key elements of the european union's growth strategy.
in writing. the erasmus brand has been synonymous with learning and vocational training mobility in the european union for many years. the aim of the programme is to strengthen the excellence and quality of european education. that is why we are today supporting the report on the establishment of the 'erasmus for all' programme, so that the main sectors of education can be involved and involved. 'erasmus for all' will aim to promote equality between men and women, to combat discrimination based on sex, race, religion rather than age or disability, through the funding of scholarships for students, apprentices, teachers or trainers; it will also include all existing programmes for education, such as comenius, leonardo da vinci, erasmus mundus, grundtvig and, for the first time, sport, under a single system. it is our task to support young people and to consider them as a resource for society, and for this reason we must share their passions and interests, also by reducing administrative burdens and barriers to access to financing systems. it will also be essential to improve the skills system and promote the social cohesion and inclusion of vulnerable groups at risk of educational disadvantage and their increased participation in democratic life in europe.
in writing. the erasmus programme is without doubt one of the greatest successes at european level: tens of thousands of students have benefited over the years from this once-unimaginable opportunity. investing in this project means investing in young people, and therefore in the future: the training of a generation increasingly aware of the different realities, from the educational, social, occupational and economic point of view, is to the benefit of all: the european union is not just a gray oppressive dictatorship, an image which it has unfortunately acquired through its own fault in recent years. the member states can also count on a generation that has lived and discovered new dimensions from which young people can hopefully take the best aspects. the children are obviously the real and biggest beneficiaries of all this and they cannot afford to squander such an opportunity, thinking maybe they will spend a few months just having fun and relaxing: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i hope that serious merit and income criteria will be chosen to enable everyone, especially the less fortunate, to have this experience.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation establishing the erasmus for all programme because, in a context of economic crisis, the allocation of funds for education, training, youth and sport is a major european success. the programme specifically aims to harmonise the various existing programmes, increasing opportunities for young people in a european training context. the programmes in question are leonardo, youth in action, grundtvig and erasmus.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing 'erasmus for all', the union programme for education, training, youth and sport. developing the european dimension in education, training, youth and sport is of crucial importance in order to move towards the ideal of integration to which the european union aspires. the multiannual programme 2014-2020 presented by the commission is a step in the right direction, as it coordinates and harmonises at community level the fragmented landscape represented by the many initiatives already in place. these activities offer, in particular to young people, a qualifying experience for their professional future and great personal enrichment, and play a key role in strengthening european identity. the integration of these programmes into a simplified, but at the same time more extensive and inclusive architecture, characterised by an efficient administrative system and easier access to funds, is therefore a decisive action in order to enhance cooperation and mobility within the community.
in writing. − the commission proposed the programme of ‘erasmus for all’ to integrate existing programmes and actions in education into a single programme based on three types of key actions, improving transnational and international learning mobility of students, teachers, and staff, cooperation between educational institutions, and support for policy reform in third countries, particularly in the eu’s neighbouring countries. european citizens will benefit from the consequent harmonised and simplified programmes; therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session, voted this morning on a report by mr pack on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing 'erasmus for all', the union's programme for education, training, youth and sport. in the current context of the youth employment crisis, it is necessary to boost community investment in training and lifelong learning activities by providing soft loans, grants and scholarships for young people aged 13-30 who wish to study in another eu country. if the union is to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, it must first ensure that europe's young people have the best training conditions for acquiring high-value-added skills and knowledge, which are crucial for young people's employability. i can therefore only express my favourable opinion of a resolution which, by investing in the three main areas of education and training, sport and youth, and by harmonizing community initiatives in this field and simplifying the existing legislative framework, is moving in the right and correct direction of guaranteeing young people a future to look forward to with less anxiety.
in writing. − with the approval of the new community programme 'erasmus+', it will be possible to fund scholarships for students, teachers, trainers and apprentices to study throughout the european union. at a time when all member states agree that the problem of youth unemployment is the most urgent problem to be solved, promoting mobility and training in this sense is essential to a quick and lasting exit from the crisis. the approximately eur 14.7 billion of financial resources will also be provided in the form of soft loans to cover the costs of advanced studies abroad.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal for a regulation establishing the 'erasmus for all' programme because i believe it is important to invest economic resources in education and training. over 4 million people will be eligible for eu funding to take up study and training opportunities abroad between 2014 and 2020, doubling the number of people currently taking up these opportunities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the 'erasmus for all' programme for education and training, youth and sport. the old erasmus programme has achieved excellent results in the past and has proved to be one of the best known programmes in europe. the final approval of the new programme, which will strengthen existing programmes such as comenius (school education), erasmus (university education), grundtvig (adult learning) and youth in action (youth activities), demonstrates the coherence of the european decision-making system over time. it is a real achievement to see that, despite the difficult economic times, the eu budget has resulted in a 40% increase to a total budget of 14.7 billion in the funds for this programme.
in writing. − in june 1987, the first network between european universities was launched, allowing students to spend a period of study abroad, recognised in their curriculum. in that year, 3,244 students were involved in the exchange: today, three million people are expected to move. there is no doubt that this program has been a great success. it has enabled university students to study in other countries, to learn their languages, to confront other systems of life, to mingle with their peers. the erasmus experience takes on the meaning of an open worksite, in which a common culture is built from below: the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment. and it's mostly built by young people. it will take time to achieve cultural union. but it is only in the field of education, of shared education, that the consciousness of a common european citizenship can be born. and so, perhaps in the not too distant future, the power of ideas developed through the exchanges of erasmus will give a soul to europe and make it less fragile. i am voting in favour of the following report, and i welcome the commission's intention to reduce the fragmentation and overlapping of the current programmes.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted today the erasmus+ programme, which represents a major milestone for european cooperation in the fields of education, youth, culture and sport. the most interesting news is that of sports: the commission will also be able to use the financial resources of the european union to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development. this will enable millions of amateur sportsmen and women to travel, train, play and meet athletes within the eu countries.
in writing. − with the creative europe framework programme, we will give current and future generations of entrepreneurs, craftspeople, creatives and innovators in the digital, fashion, technology, art, design, culture and social innovation fields the opportunity to realise their projects and increase their circulation around the world. today, the cultural and creative sectors contribute 2.6% of european gdp, with more than 5 million jobs. the proposed increase of 37% in the financial envelope, amounting to eur 1 801 million, will also help to stimulate the conversion of local economies, fostering the emergence of new economic activities and increasing the attractiveness of eu regions, cities and rural areas. finally, europe will be able to invest even more in culture, with the aim of stimulating smart, inclusive and sustainable growth, but above all capable of facing increasing foreign competition.
in writing. - i support the costa report on the creative europe programme, which will be the future framework programme (2014-2020) comprising the current culture, media and media mundus programmes. i fully share the objectives that are to be achieved through new investment in the european cultural and creative sectors.
in writing. - i also support the rationalization and reorganisation approach of the three programmes (culture, media and media mundus), which allows and justifies a significant increase in the resources allocated. i do not believe that the future of employment in europe, and especially in the mediterranean, can be represented only by the archaeological park or the global holiday colony, but i do of course recognize some specific potential in these sectors, which will be ready to bear fruit if we can take advantage of technological and cultural change. in this connection, both the council proposal and some of the rapporteur's amendments touch on a number of crucial points: the commission has also proposed that the programme be extended to cover the following areas: financial guarantees for micro-enterprises active in the sector, the desk system, the concept of 'creating audiences' in the media industry, which is also intended to absorb more than half of the programme's resources. in this context, the weaknesses of the european system - linguistic fragmentation, for example - can be turned into opportunities if we can make the multi-stakeholder nature of distribution on digital platforms as defined in article 11 count. i think that, on the whole, the regulation can be a clever instrument for supporting industry and the intangible values of the sector, and also contributing to the discontinuity with outdated philosophies of supporting productions which have largely proved to be uneconomic and inadequate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the creative europe programme. the cultural and creative sectors deserve support from the union for their potential for growth, competitiveness and job creation, and for the protection and promotion of european cultural and linguistic diversity. in fact, they represent 2.6% of european gdp, which is no small amount. these european funds are also particularly important at this stage of the economic crisis because, in the context of national austerity policies - which member states are obliged to respect european standards - the cultural and creative sectors are often put on the back burner compared with other priorities. therefore, as with the erasmus for all programme, we must also be able to use the creative europe programme to spread the message that europe has a positive impact on the lives of our citizens and businesses and that it is important to safeguard and enhance europe's cultural heritage, as well as to spread new creative ideas and circulate cultural works. the increase in the financial allocation of some 37% compared with the past is in this direction, a choice which i fully support.
in writing. − the report concerns the creative europe programme, the future framework programme (2014-2020) which will bring together the current culture, media and media mundus programmes. the objectives are to: promote the transnational circulation of cultural and creative works and operators; strengthen the financial capacity of this sector (in particular smes and organisations); and make the most of the digital and globalisation transition for cultural sectors. i support this initiative because it is essential to develop the instruments that allow smes to participate more in the programmes and it is also worth remembering that these sectors contribute 2.6% to european gdp.
in writing. − we welcome the proposal for a regulation of the creative europe programme which aims to create more favourable conditions for innovation and creativity, through incentives for business development and wider access to credit by the cultural and creative sectors. we are convinced that the protection and promotion of these activities are necessary to strengthen the roots and the future of european unity, as well as to enhance innovation, intercultural dialogue and openness towards third countries. these industries make a clear contribution to stimulating the conversion of local economies by encouraging the emergence of new economic activities. create new and sustainable jobs and increase the attractiveness of european regions, cities and rural communities, with a view to social and territorial cohesion. this requires transforming the european union into a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy with high levels of employment and productivity. in addition, it will also be important to establish specific support for the training of professionals in these areas, aimed at enhancing their digital skills, as well as improving cinema technologies and support measures for the distribution of non-national european films through other platforms, in particular satellite platforms.
in writing. − in line with the adoption of the new multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, parliament voted today on the proposal for a regulation establishing the creative europe programme. the report concerns funding to support cultural and creative sectors such as the audiovisual and film industries. the aim is to stimulate vocational training, the competitiveness of european enterprises, growth and the internationalisation of europe in terms of cultural investment. smart, inclusive and sustainable growth for cultural and creative enterprises with a fund of eur 1.4 billion.
in writing. − the commission proposed a single ‘creative europe’ framework programme, which improves access to finance for european small- and medium-sized enterprises and organisations in the cultural and creative sectors. in order to strengthen the roots and the future of the european unity, it is necessary to promote creativity and culture in the context of the core values of the european union, including pluralism, democracy, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, etc., which requires sufficient financial capacity. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal to support the promotion of european cultural and creative sector.
in writing. − for the next seven years, the new creative europe programme will support the mobility of european works and artists, as well as helping the audiovisual sector adapt to the digital age. finally, a legislative mechanism will be available to guarantee loans to help cultural enterprises to develop further. in this area too, we will be able to play our part in meeting the challenges posed by globalisation, digitalisation and access to credit in a sector which represents only 7% of european gdp, employs almost 8 million people and involves 1 million businesses.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this report by mrs silvia costa as it supports the capacity of the european cultural and creative sectors to operate transnationally, promotes the transnational circulation of works and cultural operators, strengthens the financial capacity of the cultural and creative sectors, in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises, and supports transnational political cooperation in order to foster policy development, innovation, audience building and new business models.
in writing. − after four trilogues, the european parliament and the council reached agreement at first reading on the creative europe framework programme in the cultural, creative and audiovisual sectors. i voted in favour of the report because i believe in the importance of boosting european cultural investment, an area of utmost importance for smart, inclusive and sustainable european growth. to benefit cultural and creative enterprises, which are estimated to account for between 4% and 7% of european gdp and employ some 8 million people and 1 million companies, the creative europe programme will launch a new plan that takes account of the new demands of the digital age and the social challenges we face.
in writing. - the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are fundamental to strengthening the roots and future of unity in european diversity. as an italian, i cannot help but vote in favour of this report. culture is an essential element of italian identity in the world and represents a tangible and intangible heritage to draw on to meet the challenges of the present. cultural promotion therefore plays a key role in the foreign policy of our country and is one of the main instruments of external projection. in this perspective, the eu must protect and promote tangible and intangible heritage, preserving europe's common cultural heritage. today, the cultural and creative sectors contribute 2.6% to european gdp, with an upward trend, which is considerable in the context of the current economic crisis, with more than 5 million jobs.
it is rather strange, madam president, that at a time when ultra-nationalism and populism are on the rise in several european countries and, to counter them, european citizenship policies should be given a new and stronger impetus, the commission and the council have decided, on the contrary, on the one hand, to drastically cut the budget of the europe for citizens programme and, on the other, to exclude parliament - the body directly representing the european citizens - from the co-decision procedure on the programme, thus limiting its possibilities of intervention. we must raise generations of european citizens who believe in the union as their homeland and actively support its transformation into a unified political entity. the 100 million young people in europe can and must be the main driving force behind this ambitious project, and the europe for citizens programme can and must be a key instrument for this over the next seven years.
in writing. − the europe for citizens programme is one of the most important and visible programmes not only for the cult parliamentary committee but also for its objectives aimed at promoting the democratic and civic participation of european citizens, strengthening european memory, history and networking, such as twinning. moreover, it serves to stimulate and mobilise citizens to discuss concrete issues of european interest and policy which directly affect their daily lives. despite the procedural problems, the positive aspect of this report is that the programme will be able to enter into force in january 2014, albeit with a modest financial allocation compared to the previous one. on the contrary, the fact that article 352 tfeu must be applied as the sole legal basis of the programme, and therefore a special legislative procedure, restricts the powers of the parliament to be able to amend the text and therefore, as a representative institution of european citizens, excludes their involvement.
in writing. − a recent proposal from the european commission establishes the community programme 'europe for citizens' which aims to strengthen memory and increase civic participation capacity at eu level. the community programme in question is of particular importance, particularly in view of the fact that it is currently the only community programme devoted exclusively to the promotion at european level of these ambitious objectives. i agree with the rapporteur that, given the limited budget available for the programme, the commission should minimise the budget allocation for the commission's own 'institutional communication' activities, so that these funds are spent in other areas of intervention where they are deemed most needed. finally, i would draw the commission's attention to the importance of ensuring, as far as possible, a geographical balance in the distribution of funding for the initiatives under the programme in question.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of the report on the 'europe for citizens' programme, which i consider a waste of public money, aimed at the union's self-celebration. the eur 164 million of its budget could be invested more profitably and effectively.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the europe for citizens programme because i believe it is important to make available to european citizens as soon as possible a valid instrument that continues to support the strengthening of the eu's historical memory and civic participation in the european project. like erasmus for young people, twinning between cities, debates and studies are a hallmark of european quality and have in recent years made a significant contribution to raising awareness among citizens and creating a common sense of belonging to europe and its identity. although i did not agree with the approval procedure chosen on the basis of the legal basis supported by the commission and the council, i felt it necessary to contribute to the fact that this programme should be operational as soon as possible.
in writing. − the aim of the text is to increase awareness of the history and values of the european union by encouraging civic participation with the aim of involving and bringing citizens closer to eu-related debates and discussions at local, regional and national level. i am voting against the report because i think it is a waste of money to use funds for pro-eu self-celebration.
in writing. − at this part-session we gave a favourable opinion on the proposal for a regulation establishing the europe for citizens programme for the period 2014-2020. the main objective of this initiative is to promote european citizenship and to develop intercultural dialogue which can enable citizens to participate fully in the construction of an ever closer european union. only by strengthening memory and increasing civic participation can we encourage integration and mutual tolerance, stimulating the emergence of a sense of european identity, especially among young people and women who are still a minority in political and economic decision-making. the programme aims to increase flexibility and accessibility for all european citizens, including through a more equitable distribution of funds. all activities which call for a reflection both on common values in the broadest sense of the term and on the origins of totalitarian regimes in modern european history (in particular, but not exclusively, nazism and stalinism) will have to be financed. all projects commemorating other events and highlights of the european integration process, including the most important historical milestones leading to the current political and institutional organisation of the union, are also included.
in writing. - i believe that this programme is not one of the priorities of the european union: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think that these proposals are an end in themselves, a celebration of a pseudo-european citizenship which, unfortunately, is far from being a reality. we have voted today for the new erasmus programme, and that must be a model to be followed and developed. the citizens would certainly like a different europe, closer to their needs and realities: it is not by funding sporadic initiatives that one can hope to achieve a feeling of closeness and belonging. the financial allocation is in any case rather modest, although i believe that these funds could be used for other priorities, much more relevant and useful to the european citizens.
in writing. − the europe for citizens programme is part of the european integration process, promoting european citizenship and cultural exchange between the different local communities in the eu countries. the report just voted renews the programme for the period 2014-2020 by allocating funds for partnership projects between local administrations in european countries and between citizens of the union. stimulating a sense of common identity and giving everyone the opportunity to meet each other through targeted projects, funded by the programme, for the development and promotion of european citizenship is important both for increasing the sense of identity and for social and administrative inclusion which can lead to the creation of strong and effective partnerships for the development of local realities.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the proposal for a council regulation establishing the 'europe for citizens' programme for the period 2014-2020. it is now more important than ever to raise awareness of eu policies and programmes among citizens, encouraging and facilitating greater participation. the programme aims to increase the involvement of civil society in the union's decision-making processes and to support the union in promoting debate and other activities on european issues. the programme also aims to reach out to those who are not normally interested in the subject, so that they can be aware of the impact of eu policies on their daily lives. for these reasons, i believe that the 'europe for citizens' programme represents an important contribution to bringing the union closer to its citizens.
in writing. − the proposed europe for citizens (2014-2020) programme, similar to the current programme which it follows, aims to strengthen remembrance and enhance capacity for civic participation at european level. many ngo projects in the field of culture and history are funded by this programme on the basis of developing european identity with recognised common values, history and culture. therefore i voted for the proposal although i remain concerned about its disputed legal basis.
in writing. − today, in the chamber in strasbourg, parliament was asked to give its opinion on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the 'europe for citizens' programme for the period 2014-2020. as mr takkula's report explains, the main objective of this programme is to promote european citizenship and to develop intercultural dialogue which will enable citizens to participate fully in the construction of an ever closer european union. in agreement with the rapporteur, i believe that the legal basis should be amended to reflect the opinion of the european parliament (articles 352 and 167 tfeu) and to emphasise the importance of issues identified by citizens as being of particular interest to them; consider the future potential of projects as well as their high short-term impact.
in writing. − the 'europe for citizens' programme has as its primary objective the promotion of active european citizenship, i.e. the direct involvement of citizens and civil society organisations in the european integration process. with a view to actively involving the public in the process of european integration, this programme aims to promote cooperation between citizens and civil society organisations in various countries by fostering their interaction and activities in a european context that respects their diversity, giving citizens the opportunity to interact and participate in the construction of an ever closer, democratic and world-oriented europe, united in its cultural diversity and enriched by it, developing a sense of european identity, based on common values, history and culture, promoting a sense of belonging to the european union by its citizens, enhancing the tolerance and mutual understanding of european citizens while respecting and promoting cultural and linguistic diversity, while contributing to intercultural dialogue. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the 'europe for citizens' programme aims to strengthen the union's historical memory and to encourage citizens to participate in the european project. the twinning of towns, support for initiatives of european interest, and studies and debates on european historical memory will therefore be strengthened.
madam president, in the context of the unprecedented economic and social crisis which is affecting europe, i believe it is essential to make intelligent use of the resources available and to do so in a way that is focused on mature projects with strong european added value. with this in mind, i supported the adoption of the connecting europe facility initially, which is an innovative financial instrument that will contribute to the objective of growth and competitiveness. of course, more ambitious resources could and should have been allocated, given that the transport sector's financing needs, estimated at eur 250 billion, amount to just over eur 23 billion, 7 less than the commission's already meagre proposal. this drastic reduction in the financial allocation will most likely require a significant review of the selected projects, and will consequently lead to a major downsizing of the european transport strategy. finally, i would like to welcome the initiative to include in the text, among the horizontal priorities, actions to support the development of the motorways of the sea, a genuine maritime corridor of the ten-t networks, capable of promoting and facilitating the integration into the single market of areas with natural handicaps. madam president, may i thank you for the support which the bureau has given today to the moment of participation and reflection which this house has celebrated in response to the disaster in sardinia and to the initiatives which parliament is taking forward.
the appeal was made by you and your colleague, mr barracciu, to the council and the commission, and we therefore hope that, in addition to the solidarity and closeness which we owe to the families of the victims in the affected areas, there will also be concrete aid, especially at this time.
in writing. − as the economic and financial crisis continues, the pursuit of the economic and social process warrants both the improvement of the competitiveness of the economy in europe and the return to sustainable and inclusive growth. in particular, in the energy sector, investment shortfalls are estimated at around eur 200 billion, while delays in completing the internal market are the main obstacles to achieving the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy. in this context, i welcome the regulation establishing a mechanism linking europe which makes a decisive contribution to the objective of growth and competitiveness in the transport, energy and communications sectors. it provides the member states with effective transport, energy and telecommunications systems which contribute to the integrated functioning of the union. i believe, however, that only transparent and simplified management can enable the connecting europe facility to achieve the maximum efficiency of european funding for transport, energy and telecommunications projects. in particular, i would draw the commission's attention to the importance of stimulating research, technology transfer and operational development in these areas if europe is to maintain its leading position in these areas on a world scale.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the connecting europe facility is an overly ambitious project. the cost and size of the project are such that there are legitimate doubts about its feasibility, and for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. - the report deals with a number of central issues in the common market and competitiveness policies, and my vote in favour is reinforced by the awareness that our individual countries risk losing ground if they fail to take advantage of the added value inherent in integration processes. the comparison with the white paper on growth signed by jacques delors 20 years ago is illuminating. the infrastructure backlog compared with the 1990s was estimated at some 70 billion for hard infrastructure alone in italy. on the other hand, the digital divide is becoming more and more topical. italy has 22 broadband connections per 100 inhabitants, below the eu average; the electronic transactions with public administrations are literally off the charts, with an additional cost per capita of more than eur 4000; the latest report of the un commission places italy in 57th place in the ranking for the use of the internet for information, entertainment and e-commerce activities. according to some estimates, doubling the average speed of connections would be enough to gain half a point of gdp. the provisions of this regulation, which allow for action to be taken through rationalization, integration and simplification, are therefore appropriate.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the cef will be the key eu financial instrument for the trans-european transport network. the cef will finance three types of european infrastructure: transport, energy and telecommunications, which are the basic sectors of the european single market. the cef provides for significant investments in modern, durable and effective mechanisms and infrastructure, which are essential for achieving the europe 2020 objectives and sustainable economic growth. the cef is therefore a crucial and strategic instrument in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, especially with regard to investments in growth and jobs, aimed at a definitive exit from the current economic crisis. by focusing on digital networks, intelligent, sustainable and interconnected transport networks, it will make a major contribution to the completion of the european single market. the cef provides for a greater concentration of financial support towards projects with eu added value, the exploitation of cross-sectoral synergies, a greater emphasis on the use of innovative financial instruments and greater flexibility in the allocation of funds. the report will insist on funding in particular energy isolation projects, the elimination of bottlenecks towards the completion of the internal energy market and the deployment of the world's fastest broadband by 2020.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation is one of the best answers to the anti-europeanists: the articulation of this mechanism is in fact a good compromise between the need to create infrastructure to restart the economy in europe, the need to identify priority areas in which to invest in times of crisis in order to be better prepared for a world which, in these years, continues to change, and the obligation to ensure the economic and environmental sustainability of our economic model. the mechanism also makes it possible to exploit the synergies that can and must be created between states which pool their resources to think over a longer horizon. i congratulate the rapporteurs and the whole team who worked on this dossier, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. - we have today adopted in plenary the report on the proposal for a regulation on transeuropean links. the connecting europe facility (cef) programme will aim to accelerate financing for the completion of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, thereby improving the mobility of citizens, goods and services across the european union. it is important to emphasise that this project will aim to create increasingly reliable, robust and efficient transport systems, making them globally competitive and eliminating the mosaics of national approaches that currently exist. for this reason, the european union and its institutions should cooperate synergistically, reinforcing their ambitions in relation to major infrastructure projects such as the ten-t (trans-european transport by road, water, air and rail) multimodal core network, as they will not only contribute to improving economic, social and territorial cohesion but above all because they will promote the increase in employment levels in all eu member states.
in writing. the cef, the mechanism to connect europe, has just been approved by parliament. i too voted in favour of this as it is a means of supporting european infrastructure in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications. in concrete terms, this is eu assistance to the trans-european transport networks through targeted funding that can renew, monitor, develop and responsibly manage european networks, generating growth, support and cooperation between the eu countries through which the 9 main corridors pass. the eu financial assistance will be granted through direct support depending on the value of the project and through project bonds in order to involve private companies and mobilise the market.
in writing. − the connecting europe facility seeks to establish integrated networks in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure throughout the european union. integrating these networks and centralising the eu financing allocation will significantly reduce administrative costs and stimulate potential synergies between these fields, which contribute to economic growth and competitiveness, and this is consistent with our long-term strategy of pursuing sustainable, inclusive and balanced growth. therefore, i support the rapporteur’s position and voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − this agreement will allow for accelerated financing to complete transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure in all member states. with a total budget of around €29.3 billion for the period 2014-2020, there will finally be certain resources to improve cross-border connections and eliminate bottlenecks. today's decision is a far-sighted one that will be able to boost the continent's economy in the long term by modernising and expanding energy infrastructure and increasing security of supply.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in order to achieve a more integrated and resource-efficient europe, the main obstacles to the completion of a single energy market must be removed and digital must be used as a tool for innovation and growth by supporting the world's fastest broadband by 2020.
in writing. − the connecting europe facility will finance projects that complete the missing links of the networks in question and make the european economy greener, through the introduction of less polluting modes of transport, high-speed broadband connections and a wider use of renewable energy in line with the europe 2020 strategy. in addition, financing energy networks will further integrate the internal energy market, reducing the eu's energy dependence and enhancing security of supply. by focusing on smart, sustainable and fully interconnected transport, energy and digital networks, the connecting europe facility will help complete the european single market. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the connecting europe facility (cef) aims to accelerate funding to complete the union's transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure and to define the guidelines for the development of the ten-t network. the cef, which will have a total budget of eur 29 billion for the period 2014-2020, will aim to improve the mobility of citizens, goods and services across the union and help to address the age-old issue of missing links. the financial instrument will also allow the development of sustainable railways and the implementation of the so-called 'motorways of the sea', providing a very useful service for all member states.
madam president, the adoption of the proposal for a transeuropean transport network was important because it responds to the need to increase the competitiveness of the european system, as it facilitates relations, exchanges, relations between people and the movement of goods. it is also important for environmental sustainability because, together with other measures which parliament will be called upon to adopt concerning ports and the railway package, the nodes in the relations will make it possible to reduce pollution, especially in relation to the atmosphere, and thus improve the quality of life of european citizens. but all this will only be possible if, in addition to environmental sustainability, we also care about social sustainability. i therefore believe that more should be done, by launching a strategic environmental assessment that incorporates these measures into national, regional and local planning.
madam president, transport is a crucial element for the european economy and it will not be able to grow and prosper without efficient and quality transport networks. i have therefore strongly supported from the outset the project to create the new ten-t network, a transport network with high european added value capable of upgrading existing infrastructure and facilitating the mobility of citizens and goods throughout the union. i believe that the main challenge of the new network is the need to ensure adequate connectivity to all regions of europe, including island regions such as sardinia, which were initially excluded from the core network. for this reason, the contribution to the dossier was directed from the outset to filling this regulatory gap in the commission's original proposal, so that island regions can also enjoy the benefits of the inclusion of their urban nodes. finally, i am pleased that my amendments to include sardinia in the central network have been accepted by the rapporteurs mr koumoutsakos and mr ertug, whom i thank for the excellent work they have done and for their excellent representation of the european parliament's position in the negotiations with the council.
madam president, mobility can be considered the heart of the european project, because being able to move freely within one's own territory is one of the fundamental rights of european citizens and it is also the instrument which can make it possible for citizens to enjoy the same economic and social conditions. this right becomes crucial for some of the union's territories such as the islands, and especially sardinia and sicily. geographical isolation often equates to economic isolation, perpetual conditions of economic backwardness and social discomfort. i therefore welcome any effort to improve the commission's proposal and to include more investment opportunities in geographically disadvantaged regions. the ports in particular are a very important means of connecting regions such as sardinia, which, also because of its geographical characteristics, would deserve an extra effort to integrate other ports into the main network of ports in the union. the motorway of the sea is a fundamental project for the mediterranean and needs all possible support, especially economic, from the european union.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing transeuropean networks is an overly ambitious project. the cost and size of the project are such that there are legitimate doubts about its feasibility, and for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. - in announcing a favourable vote, i would like to mention by title some of the areas where i believe important progress has been made. i refer to the results of the previous comparisons for other considerations, also of the utmost importance. the commission has also been able to manage this complex subject in an effective way by establishing methodologies (integrated duality of the central and global network, corridor approach) which appear to reasonably ensure effective and orderly project development. the problems of bottlenecks and barriers to interoperability have also been taken into account and rightly included among the priorities. it should also be noted that the text adopted today, adapted to possible recovery scenarios, reflects the courage to go beyond established visions and to provide appropriate instruments for possible recovery scenarios, for example on the subject of logistics, given the attention given to the port system and the motorways of the sea. finally, the rapporteurs should be commended for having taken up the important implications of the principles of inclusion, citizenship, freedom and personal development in this area, in sharp contrast to purely economic and short-sighted views, which are a permanent snare for european decision-makers.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the new agreement on eu infrastructure policy aims to create a genuine transeuropean transport network. today, the ten-t remains a patchwork of national networks: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the proposal aims to make the network more accessible, efficient, intermodal and interoperable by linking the nodes which allow the exchange of different modes of transport, making better use of existing infrastructures and creating a more precise and binding framework for its practical and rapid implementation. the agreement provides for a core transport network to be established as a priority by 2030. this network will constitute a selection of the most important sections of the global network and will become the backbone for transport within the single market, directly contributing to its completion. the global network, which is to be completed by 2050, will cover the whole of the eu and be accessible to all, citizens and businesses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a regulation. i am convinced that even in a crisis situation such as this, the european union must not give up thinking big and must continue to focus on the small measures needed in the short term and on the more far-reaching measures, without which there is no future. i particularly welcome the choice of the legal instrument, the regulation, which leaves no room for differences in transposition but obliges all member states, at the same time and in the same way, to adapt to ensure the achievement of the objectives set, among which i particularly appreciated interoperability, the use of renewable fuels and intermodality. i hope that the commission will monitor implementation and that all those concerned will be able to raise the necessary funds without further pressuring the citizens, who should only benefit from these measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr koumoutsakos and mr ertug because i think it addresses the current challenges of a significant delay in some eu territories in implementing ten-t projects, as well as their difficulty in financing projects in times of economic crisis. in this context, the port of augusta, the palermo-catania high-speed railway, the port and the airport of cagliari could be among the major sicilian and sardinian infrastructures which could be financed from community resources for the development of the transeuropean transport network ten-t. sicily, which is part of corridor 3 with italy, the scandinavian-mediterranean corridor, because it runs from helsinki to malta, must take advantage of the possibilities offered by european funds to improve internal mobility, and i hope that the italian, sicilian and sardinian governments will soon propose projects consistent with the measures envisaged by european programming, focusing on public-private partnership investments. of the €15 billion allocated for the eu as a whole, italy could be allocated a share of around €2.5 to €3 billion if it has a rapid design response capacity. this demonstrates the eu's attention to italy and in particular to sicily and sardinia, which are the eu's real strategic platforms in the mediterranean.
in writing. − the development and operation of transeuropean transport networks contribute to the achievement of important objectives such as the proper functioning of the internal market and the strengthening of economic and social cohesion. they also have the specific objective of enabling sustainable and unhindered mobility of people and goods, improving accessibility to all regions of the european union. that is why we are supporting today the report by mr koumoutsakos and mr ertug on the proposal for a regulation on the development of a transeuropean transport network, because good mobility is the backbone of a successful economy and an essential element for social cohesion and integration. a weak network would have a significant impact on the free movement of goods and people, so it will be essential to create a central and a global network that complement each other, so as to bring significant improvements to the functioning of the single market and ensure economic growth and mobility, which are fundamental to the quality of life, to the benefit of third countries as well. finally, once all costs and benefits, including social and environmental ones, have been considered, it will be essential to ensure a positive contribution to the well-being of all citizens of the european union.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is one of the major projects that are indispensable to the functioning of single market, social cohesion and mobility of european citizens. however, many ten-t projects are forced to delay, facing difficulties in financing, a lack of coordination between different financing instruments, and insufficient information and statistics. in order to meet the challenges, the commission proposed to introduce a new methodology with common criteria for the whole network to integrate all regions equally and strengthen the reporting obligations for the member states through the interactive geological and technical information system and data from the european investment bank. as these approaches contribute to the promotion of ten-t, i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the transeuropean transport network is one of the focal points of the development of the common market: it ensures the mobility of citizens and contributes to the economic and social cohesion of the union. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it identifies the priorities for completing the transeuropean road, rail, water and air transport network: overcome the current fragmentation along national lines of the transport network, solve the problem of coordination of financing instruments at central and decentralised level and ensure the transparency of financing, in particular from the european funds and the european investment bank.
in writing. − the development of a trans-european transport network will facilitate the movement of goods and people and will reduce the peripheral location of some of the union's most deprived areas. the eu treaties aim to create a european internal market and to develop economic and social cohesion, and this single market, with the free movement of goods, people and services, requires efficient and modern infrastructure. the development of the trans-european transport network responds to this objective, as well as to ensure the interconnection and interoperability of national networks. in addition, the construction of trans-european networks is also seen as an important element of economic growth and employment. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network is one of the union's key projects and is of paramount importance for the mobility of european citizens, for social and territorial cohesion and for the economic and employment development of the member states. today's vote is particularly important because it proposes major changes to the current ten-t network layout to address problems such as a significant delay in the implementation of some projects, the lack of coordination between the different funding instruments, and the lack of information and statistics on the funding of some projects.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to rationalise the european statistical system. in particular, regulation (ec) no 223/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 march 2009 on european statistics defines the european statistical system (ess) as a partnership between the european statistical authority, namely the commission (eurostat), and the national statistical institutes (nis) and other national authorities in each member state responsible for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics. as the rapporteur's proposals give more detail on the expiry of the commission's powers and bind the commission to an obligation to report to parliament, i voted in favour of the reports.
in writing. − this proposal represents a technical adjustment following a regulation adopted in 2011. it is therefore normal to follow up the full approval of the committee responsible by voting in favour.
in writing. - this proposal, for which i voted in favour, aims to amend the nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics in order to bring them into line with the new institutional framework. in this sense, the objective behind the proposal was to replace the regulatory procedure with the control procedure (rps) by means of delegated acts and to start a rationalisation of the european statistical system. as with the new common agricultural policy, further simplification and alignment of statistical collection tools with the new regulations will be beneficial for the analysis of data in the sector.
in writing. − the european commission has the power to adopt delegated acts for a period of five years or more (as from their entry into force) unless the european parliament or the council objects to such extension. we are opposed to the indefinite duration of the mandate, and we therefore support this proposal, which requires agreement between the various institutions. the nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics will need to be amended in order to adapt them to the new institutional context. the main objective will be to replace all provisions containing references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, concerning statistical surveys to be carried out in the dairy sector, the economic accounts of agriculture and the transmission of statistical data on fishery products landings in member states, by delegated acts in the nine existing legislative texts. in addition, the role and tasks of the european statistical system committee should be streamlined, since it should no longer be excluded from the study of statistical data relating to agriculture and fisheries in the exercise of its powers in support of the commission.
in writing. − statistics are critical to policy making and are among the major building-blocks upon which european policy-makers make decisions. the commission proposed to modify nine legislative acts related to agricultural and fishery statistics so that they fit better in the new institutional context. agricultural and fishery statistics specifically serve to help the commission exercise its power, assisted by the standing committee for agricultural statistics (scas). therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal to support the commission and improve the efficiency of european institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr groote's report, which i consider to be balanced and acceptable.
in writing. − the 1992 helsinki convention is an important instrument of cooperation between states aimed at preventing and controlling pollution of transboundary waterways and international lakes. the opening of the convention to all un member states is a great opportunity to extend cooperation on water and river basins around the world. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling for parliament to adopt the amendments to the helsinki convention necessary to transform it into a regulatory framework for global cooperation.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report in order to ensure that the eu can proceed with the acceptance of the amendment providing for a comprehensive opening to the un convention. at the same time, the formal adoption by this house of this report allows non-eu countries to join the union. this is in the context of increasing cooperation on the protection and use of transboundary waterways and international lakes.
in writing. - we fully support the recommendation by mr groote on the proposal on the protection and use of transfrontier waterways and international lakes. we are convinced that the establishment of a framework for bilateral and multilateral cooperation initiatives aimed at preventing and controlling pollution of transboundary watercourses and the rational use of water by the countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is more necessary than ever. the aim must be to enable countries outside the unece region to become an integral part of it, in order to promote cooperation in the field of river basins throughout the world, particularly in those countries which are neighbouring, such as afghanistan, china, iran, and those which are located in central asia. it is therefore essential to be able to guarantee a global opening and access to the commission for all those countries which are interested in joining this multilateral cooperation project.
in writing. − the use and protection of international waterways and lakes and in border areas are also issues for the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment. the text approved concerns in particular the acceptance of certain amendments to articles 25 and 26 of the helsinki convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes. the amendments seek to extend the convention to countries outside the united nations economic commission for europe, so that they can jointly control and manage the same rivers and lakes that bathe countries that are sometimes far apart.
in writing. − the unece convention introduces a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control the pollution of transboundary watercourses and the rational use of water. amendments to this convention shall enter into force for the parties to the convention which have accepted it on the ninetieth day after the date on which two thirds of those parties have deposited with the depositary their instruments of acceptance of the amendment. in a resolution on the 6th world water forum adopted on 15 march 2012, the european parliament urged the commission to promote the entry into force of the amendments to the helsinki convention. according to the report, this proposal aims at extending the scope beyond the current unece countries. it is consistent to the interest of the union to improve cooperation by opening the convention globally to enable accession of non unece countries willing to do so, especially for the countries bordering the current unece region. considering the potential benefits, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the report by mr groote on the helsinki convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, which aims to establish cooperation initiatives to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to rationalise the use of water by the countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), was discussed in the house today. the eu has been a party to the convention since 1995. in 2003, the intention was expressed to extend the scope of the convention to countries outside the unece region, through an amendment to articles 25 and 26; the eu has not yet accepted the amendment. in agreement with the rapporteur, it should be recalled that parliament had already expressed its position in a resolution on the sixth world water forum in march 2012, calling on the commission to promote the entry into force of amendments to the convention in order to broaden the scope of this instrument. in this way, the convention could ensure particular relevance for important neighbouring countries in the unece region, such as china, afghanistan and iran.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the remek report which proposes the adoption of an additional research programme for the iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) project 2014-2018, in order to demonstrate that fusion is a possible, safe, sustainable and economically viable future energy source for the eu.
in writing. − innovation in the development of innovative energy sources is essential to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, increase energy security and thus build a strong, competitive europe that is able to meet the important challenges of the future. by signing the convention establishing the international fusion energy organisation iter (which includes the eu, japan, russia, the usa, china, the republic of korea and india), europe has committed itself to hosting and leading the construction of the iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) project. it is estimated that by 2050 this project will have met a large part of the continent's electricity needs. in this context, the european union must carry forward its commitments with one voice and maintain its credibility with its international partners. this requires the resources to be made available to continue long-standing research and innovation projects and to reap the benefits in the future. for these reasons i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which provides for the reintegration of the iter programme into the union's multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of the adoption of a supplementary research programme for the iter project. this programme is intended to demonstrate the importance of nuclear energy as a possible source of safe, environmentally friendly and sustainable energy, and in this sense i believe that a global restructuring of the union's activities should be considered.
in writing. − we support the report on the adoption of an additional research programme to support the iter project, as it is a unique design on a global scale, as it emphasises the development of fusion energy as a credible alternative for commercial production of energy with zero greenhouse gas emissions. nuclear fusion has the potential to make a significant contribution to the creation of a sustainable and secure energy supply in the coming decades. developing the necessary technology would make it possible to produce energy in a cost-effective and environmentally friendly way; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's scientific and technological potential is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to provide scientific and technological assistance to the developing countries. implementing this strategy will require a radical restructuring of the european union's merger activity, including governance and financing. this will require constant financial support for both mainstream projects and research and development in key areas. only in this way can significant cost reductions be achieved without compromising the overall scope of the projects themselves.
in writing. − the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter) is the largest tokamak ever constructed and an indispensable part of the next step on the road to fusion as a worldwide energy source. nuclear fusion can be a much safer source of energy than fission, because there is no chain reaction involved. given the strategic importance of the project, the eu should continue its involvement in the next programming period of the iter project. this proposal aims at providing sufficient funding for the project without endangering other critical research projects of the union; therefore, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the skinner report on the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community. the text is very balanced and i believe that irrespective of whether a member state chooses to use nuclear energy or not, all member states can and should benefit from nuclear research and the european added value of the euratom framework.
in writing. the rapporteur rightly points out that whatever the energy policy decisions of individual member states, the union cannot afford to ignore the sector or to let the systems for advanced nuclear research and development be impoverished. this specific regulation, in its relationship with the horizon 2020 framework programme, crosses two fundamental areas, namely applied research and energy planning. the interdependence of these factors with the economic recovery is beyond question: if we look at the current recovery scenario in the united states, we will soon discover a direct link between the further increase in technology patents and the energy revolution brought about by the even politically counter-cultural assertion of shale gas and green coal production. our programmes do not set out the ambition of becoming, like the united states today, a net exporter of energy, but there are certainly clear commitments on the composition of the energy mix and the prospect of energy security. in this respect, it is vital to have an appropriate research sector, first of all in terms of human capital and technological leadership. in this sense, the suggestion of using erdf funds in districts with established 'champions' in the field of nuclear engineering is also interesting. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. the euratom programme - one of the main building blocks of the community project in the 1950s - is still the most important research and development programme in the european union. over the years, atomic research has made important scientific advances with positive effects in many fields. for this reason, i believe that the integration of euratom into horizon 2020 will make it possible to exploit the existing synergies between the two programmes, avoid duplication of costs and promote the creation of a scientific and technological base necessary for europe's competitiveness and future. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which stresses, among other things, the need to rationalise the costs of the programme, improve the working conditions of researchers and, last but not least, increase the involvement of small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. − the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community is part of the horizon 2020 package. given that it is up to each individual member state to decide whether or not to use nuclear energy, i believe that in order to make an informed and conscious choice, everyone should benefit from the results of nuclear research and the european added value of the euratom framework. this is also to allow for an efficient use of resources for the promotion of excellence in the nuclear field.
in writing. − the horizon 2020 programme provides the european union with a range of research and innovation opportunities, including nuclear. this programme is based on three fundamental pillars, namely excellence in science, industrial leadership and the major societal challenges facing the union and its citizens. we therefore support the proposal for more research funding, which will bring considerable benefits to the whole of the european union in the future. it is necessary to maintain leadership in this area and to ensure that it is not compromised by excluding it from the multiannual financial framework. in addition, it is important to emphasise the importance of international cooperation in adopting and promoting appropriate security measures and to promote access for eu researchers. further emphasis should be placed on improving the situation of smes by ensuring their equal access to all innovative financing instruments for nuclear research and by relieving them of the high administrative burden. the european union is currently perceived as a leading region in fusion and fission competence; it is important that this status is not lost and can be used to attract new researchers and new investments.
in writing. − establishing the framework programme for research and innovation for the 2014-2020 period is of great importance for the union’s competitiveness. individual member states will benefit as a part of the european union from nuclear research and the added european value of the euratom framework, even if they choose not to use nuclear as a source of energy. while development of frontier science and technology is consistent with the union’s long term strategy, international co-operation should also be encouraged to ensure nuclear safety and security of research and training. as these important aspects are specified in the proposal, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the horizon 2020 programme provides the union with a number of opportunities in the field of research and innovation. this applies to nuclear research as well as to other aspects of research in the union. the contribution of nuclear researchers to all aspects of research in the union remains vital and therefore it is appropriate that nuclear research is also covered by horizon 2020. the three pillars of horizon 2020 are excellence in science, industrial leadership and the big societal challenges, objectives entrusted to the union and its citizens, all of which are reinforced by the inclusion of nuclear research and researchers. the exclusion of nuclear research from horizon 2020 would therefore undermine the achievement of these objectives by the union. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i support the krahmer report on the creation of an instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety. i believe that it is essential to create coordinated action at international level in the field of nuclear safety, and this instrument is aimed at ensuring sufficient means for the union to promote strategic and human security by responding to the challenges in the field of nuclear safety, radiation protection and nuclear safeguards.
in writing. the tragic consequences of the explosion at the chernobyl nuclear power station in 1986 are still vivid in the collective memory. the world suddenly became aware of the serious health risks associated with nuclear power, and numerous research programs were launched to make the use of this energy source safer. the fukushima accident in 2011 reaffirmed the need for coordinated international action in the field of nuclear safety: it is clear that our security is tied in two ways to the security standards adopted by third countries. to that end, the european instrument for nuclear safety cooperation (insc) aims to ensure that the union, in its external action, is able to initiate concrete forms of cooperation and assistance with other countries. in particular, the union's international engagement will be directed towards ensuring a progressive approximation of existing regulation and a fruitful sharing of know-how in this field. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the challenges in the nuclear sector are changing very fast and some of the previous eu projects are now obsolete. that is why i voted in favour of this report, so that it can become a new european instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety. an instrument to ensure strategic and human security by responding to the challenges in the field of nuclear safety, radiation protection and nuclear safeguards in third countries.
in writing. − the 1986 chernobyl accident highlighted the importance of nuclear safety worldwide, as did the 2011 fukushima daiichi accident, which confirmed that every reactor carries nuclear risks. it is therefore necessary to continue efforts to improve nuclear safety in order to achieve the highest standards reflecting the most advanced practices. that is why we are supporting the report on the proposal on nuclear safety today, because it is vital that the european atomic energy community is able to support it in third countries, eliminating the risks to the lives and health of the population. the consistency, coordination and complementarity of the european union's assistance in the field of nuclear safety will have to be ensured through the individual efforts of the member states and other international, regional and local organisations, in order to avoid overlaps and duplication of funding. specific objectives will need to be pursued, such as the promotion of a genuine nuclear safety culture and effective governance; the implementation of higher standards of nuclear safety and radiation protection; the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and, finally, the long-term impact on the environment.
in writing. − nuclear energy remains an important source of energy, whereas nuclear safety has been one of the major concerns across europe, involving nuclear safeguards not only in europe but also third countries. better coordination is desired at international and national level as well as international, local and regional organisations. on the other hand, it is necessary to improve financial management to ensure optimal use of the eu’s financial resources in times of economic hardship. as the proposal stressed the need to promote economic development and respect fully the highest safety standards in the production of nuclear energy in the meantime, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i consider the chichester report on the nuclear decommissioning assistance programmes in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia to be a balanced text, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the decommissioning programmes for the nuclear installations in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, while of fundamental importance for the health and safety of all european citizens, must be carried out in an efficient and thrifty use of the funds made available. for this reason, i am in favour of the commission monitoring these programmes, ensuring that the union's financial resources are allocated and used in accordance with criteria of efficiency and economy.
in writing. - lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria are three countries with old nuclear reactors which the international community considered to be too outdated and for which it was not possible to adapt to the minimum safety standards required. in the course of the negotiations for accession to the european union, the three countries undertook to close and deactivate the nuclear reactors within certain time limits, with the financial assistance of the european union itself. although all the units concerned have been closed within the deadlines, some decommissioning programmes continue to suffer economically harmful and politically unacceptable delays. we therefore agree with the report by mr chichester, because it is essential to ensure the safety of all citizens of the member states through a more stringent monitoring system. it will be necessary to assess the progress made, to verify the decommissioning of the eight reactors and also to mitigate the negative economic effects which will inevitably be caused by their final closure. in order to assess the adequacy of the appropriations allocated to the programme through the european union funds and taking into account the financial co-responsibility of the union and the member states concerned, it will be necessary to monitor systematically the amounts disbursed, so that they are used efficiently and sparingly.
in writing. − in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, dated nuclear reactors associated with huge risk of safety issues were operated. unfortunately, it has been concluded that these nuclear reactors could not be cost effectively upgraded to meet the minimum required safety standards. currently available funding falls at eur 2500 million less than the estimated cost. the process of decommissioning is put at risk due to the lack of funding; it is necessary for the union to provide financial assistance and monitor the usage to avoid the potential social, environmental and economic problems. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - in the morning, parliament voted in plenary on a report by mr chichester on the proposal for a council regulation on union support for nuclear decommissioning assistance programmes in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia. eu financial assistance to complete the closure of obsolete nuclear power plants with inadequate safety standards responds to growing public concern about environmental issues, which all too often have the potential to negatively impact the health of citizens. in the light of recent events in japan and given the geographical proximity of the slovak republic and bulgaria to our country (in this connection, it is worth recalling the chernobyl disaster, which is much further away from italy than the two countries mentioned), ensuring the safety of the nuclear installations of the three countries in question represents a financial burden which the union must assume, given the real environmental risks associated with the lack of support for nuclear decommissioning programmes. for these reasons, i cannot help but support a resolution allocating some eur 900 million to prevent a potential environmental disaster which could also harm italian citizens.
in writing. - lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria are three countries where old nuclear reactors were in operation which were too outdated and for which it was not possible to adjust to the minimum safety standards required in a cost-effective way. in the agreement reached by the european union, the three countries have committed themselves to shutting down and subsequently decommissioning the nuclear reactors within certain strict deadlines. i acknowledge that the early shutdown represented a social, environmental, economic and financial burden of exceptional scope, and i agree that the european union has committed itself to providing financial assistance until the end of 2013, both for the decommissioning of the reactors and as a contribution to dealing with the consequences of an early shutdown, preventing any environmental damage in advance. that is why i gave a favourable opinion.
i'm the reporter. - madam president, i would first like to thank the whole team of fictitious rapporteurs of the political groups who have worked with me on this development of the european social fund. thanks to this collective work, we have been able to have an extremely clear negotiating mandate in the 27 trilogues and with the three successive presidencies in these trilogues. we have made fundamental advances, adapted to the real needs of the field. the essential thing behind all our work, ladies and gentlemen, is that we really respond to the needs of our fellow europeans and that our policies are effective and can support real projects effectively. the second objective was indeed that our work in the european social fund should be in perfect synergy with the objectives we have set for the europe 2020 strategy: investing in human capital with the european social fund is necessarily to want to reduce and have as an objective to reduce unemployment. yes, because the political objective of the european social fund is vocational integration and vocational integration is the first lever for social integration. so rather than aid policies, employment has been our first objective. we already had examples of this in previous multiannual policies with the return of the unemployed to employment. but today, politics must be very different, because the problem is deeply rooted. the first problem is the entry of young people into the labour market. the second is job retention, because it is much more difficult to get unemployed people back into jobs than to keep employees in their jobs. that is why we have developed this european social fund, all of us together, with entry into employment, return to employment and retention in employment. our target audience is young people: first of all, young people who have left school without qualifications, of course, but also young people with a degree, since today, in the 15-25 age group, 22.9% of young people, on average, are unemployed, in some countries even 53%, and in some regions, much more. youth employment is a key policy issue in the european social fund the youth guarantee. the youth employment initiative is a strong political signal for regions with more than 25% of young unemployed. but this social fund is also designed to help women to enter the workforce. we know, mr commissioner - you have seen this - that the crisis has put women out of work, by weakening precarious contracts and part-time work. we must therefore use this european social fund to ensure that these women are not left out of the labour market, because otherwise we are entrenching a political, economic and social problem. we also mobilise the social fund for the work of the elderly and for the maintenance of employees. all companies should know that the adaptation of employees to the new needs of the company and to the new production needs is also an acquis of these negotiations and of the evolution of the european social fund! we have mobilized our efforts in the fight against poverty, we have wanted to simplify and we have wanted to be more efficient, with pre-feeding, to act now, madam president, in 2014 and 2015.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am delighted to be able to participate in this afternoon’s debate. we need an effective and fair policy to help deliver a common economic and social cohesion across the european union. it is a key instrument in providing for solidarity within, and between, member states. it is particularly important that a cohesion policy for the period from 2014-2020 is approved in good time for it to be operational from the beginning of next year. the lithuanian presidency has taken forward the sterling work of the previous presidencies to continue the task of negotiating with the aim of bringing the whole package to a satisfactory conclusion by the end of this year. the negotiations have been lengthy and have not always been easy. i heard some rapporteurs mention 80, 90, 27 and ten trialogues. according to our calculations, since the start of the negotiations we have had more than 200 trialogues on this issue. much effort has been spent in hammering out details, often well into the night, in order to reach results which were acceptable to both our institutions. i am therefore particularly pleased to confirm that coreper endorsed the political agreement on the entire cohesion policy package reached in trialogues and i look forward to a positive vote here in the european parliament. of course, such a positive outcome would not have been possible without considerable flexibility from both sides. i am grateful to parliament for demonstrating such a constructive attitude, even when the positions of our two institutions looked to be so far apart. i would like to thank the chairs of the committee on regional development, ms danuta hübner, and of the committee on employment and social affairs, ms pervenche berès, for their efforts in steering this dossier towards a successful conclusion. i would also like to thank all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their expertise which they have brought to this dossier and for the time and effort which they have devoted to ensuring a positive outcome. in such a negotiation the knowledge and commitment of rapporteurs for all the various acts which go to make up this package are invaluable. we would not have reached a successful conclusion without them. last, but not least, i would also like to thank commissioners johannes hahn, responsible for regional policy, and lászló andor, in charge of employment, social affairs and inclusion, for their contribution and for their many positive suggestions which were key to helping us reach such a balanced outcome. this package will make a major contribution to creating a more dynamic, fairer and more integrated european union. it will help tackle some of the more significant challenges which europe faces as we endeavour to emerge stronger and more resilient from the economic crisis. i look forward to hearing your views and, as always, will do my best to respond to any specific issues which might be raised during the course of the debate.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. this week is indeed an important and decisive one for the regions of europe, and i am glad that we can work together to prepare the regions and their people for a good future. first of all, let me thank the rapporteurs, mrs constanze krehl and mr lambert van nistelrooij, for their dedicated and excellent work. i would also like to thank my predecessor and current chairwoman, danuta hübner, in a very special way for her careful coordination. we obviously have not agreed on the number of trilogues, but i think it is a significant number. and the tenacity with which the negotiations have been conducted in recent months shows how seriously the legislators and the commission have been negotiating this issue. i am glad that the council and parliament have followed the central ideas of the new cohesion policy. we are negotiating today the outcome of these negotiations, a compromise, but i believe a good compromise, which guarantees and deserves broad support. it is a question of giving appropriate support to the economic crisis which has gripped europe and which, thank god, is about to end. i think the new cohesion policy offers the appropriate opportunities. in total, more than eur 500 billion will be available from national funds over the next seven years. the quality of projects and work is ensured by targeted new elements, thematic concentration, ex ante conditions and a corresponding strong result orientation. i would like to express my gratitude to the european parliament, and in particular to the members of the regi committee, for their work and guidance, and i would like to extend this gratitude to all the staff of the various institutions. we have a clear objective in cohesion policy: to increase the competitiveness of our regions and thus to safeguard and further increase the prosperity of our fellow citizens. it is therefore important to invest very specifically in growth and jobs. this is why the declared objective of future cohesion policy is to focus more on the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises, without forgetting industry. but the aim must clearly be to invest at least twice as much in this area as before. it's also about us making that decision now and for them to make a clear vote tomorrow. we've waited a long time for this decision. europe and its people have waited a long time to plan, to decide, to question, in particular many private investors who are taking this decision as an opportunity. i would therefore like to thank you very much for your willingness to take this decision tomorrow, with a very broad package, i hope, and with a very broad backing, because it concerns investment decisions over a period of seven years, which is unique in this form in europe, but also in the world as a whole! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me also thank parliament for its hard work on the cohesion policy package. from the perspective of the european social fund, i want to pay tribute more specifically to the work on the esf regulation by the rapporteur elisabeth morin-chartier, the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs, pervenche berès, and the shadow rapporteurs of the political groups. like johannes, i am also convinced that with the deal on the table we will see a better cohesion policy over the next seven years – a cohesion policy more linked to economic employment and social policy priorities, primarily the europe 2020 strategy, and with even more coherent and more effective investment than today. in this context, the european social fund will strongly benefit from better integration with other cohesion policy funds and a number of specific improvements. the esf’s objectives in areas of intervention are made more explicit and result-oriented. member states will have to concentrate esf money on addressing their key employment and social challenges and on enhancing the effectiveness of their public administration. social inclusion will get more attention because of the requirement that member states dedicate at least 20 % of esf resources to it. increased use of simplified cost options will lead to a stronger focus on delivery and results, rather than on justifying incurred costs. getting more out of the esf is all the more essential given the need to repair the damage that the crisis has inflicted on europe’s people, not least through the historically high levels of youth unemployment. offering the prospect of a better future to the increasing number of young people who are not working, studying or in training is a matter of urgency. in this context, i very much welcome the quick agreement on the new youth employment initiative as part of the esf regulation, including provisions to allow these investments to start ahead of all other programmes. but let us be clear that this will also cost money, especially if we are to help quickly not only the youngest, but all young people below 30, as is wished by many in this house. as you know, the commission has advocated since the very beginning the need to guarantee a minimum level of human capital investment in the eu budget. it is a matter of coherence between the policies we advocate and the funding we provide. i welcome the co-legislators’ agreement to establish a minimum allocation for the esf within cohesion policy, but i regret that the level has been lowered during the negotiations with the council. i know that this house has defended, against the will of most member states, the level of at least 25 % that we proposed. and clearly, two years after our initial proposal, the need for robust eu investment in people has increased rather than decreased. today, the pressure is high to seal a deal. but let me be clear. whatever the finally agreed legal minimum may be, this house’s support reinforces the commission in its discussions with the member states. it will help us to agree on esf allocations that are commensurate with their employment and social challenges and commitments.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - madam president, i take this opportunity, more to get to the heart of a debate which has been with us for the last year and a half, to point out to the president of the assembly and the leaders of the groups present that a serious mistake is being made in this chamber at this hour: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the question of macro-conditionality and the question raised by the empl committee on the european social fund for bureaucratic and regulatory reasons and preventing the expression of dissent on this will make the comparison between us much more complicated, bringing whole delegations - even important ones, who benefit from these policies, who are supportive of them, who have worked in these years in committees to reform these policies - to express a vote against the whole package. i should therefore like to take this opportunity to call for a review of this position and for members from different political parties and important delegations to be able to express their views by voting in this house.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - madam president, commissioner, the package of legislative proposals on cohesion policy 2014-2020, which we will be voting on tomorrow, risks not meeting the objectives of solidarity and regional development. at a time of crisis in the member states, making the functioning of this policy dependent on macro-conditionality will undermine development and growth, which are the basis of the new programming. the economic crisis has shown that budgetary and macroeconomic imbalances can limit the usefulness of cohesion policy, and if the regions, in order not to strain the constraints of the stability pact, limit the spending of the structural funds, the risk of stagnation is real. if we want a europe of growth and development, then i invite everyone to reflect before tomorrow's vote.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - madam president, as a member of the itre committee, i would like to address a very specific point: we have included in the funds, according to the criterion of concentration of priorities, certain aspects linked to the development of the territory, such as competitiveness, research, innovation, etc. this means that these objectives are very similar and parallel to those we want to pursue with horizon 2020 and other programmes. we have repeatedly invoked, and the commission has also invoked, the useful synergies between different funds, which translates into a magic word: the commission has already but complementarity, which is a wish, must be built up at the level of regional programming, i.e. using different funds for the same project, which allow the hard part of the research infrastructure and the soft part to be done. but to achieve this complementarity, we must make it possible. the reporting rules and the rules for access to funds must be consistent. but that is not the case, as the regions tell us. finally, i would like to use the remaining time at my disposal to support the many arguments of the members who have spoken against macro-conditionality, which is the opposite of cohesion policy, and i am sorry that the council did not understand this in the previous one. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i am sorry to disappoint mr van nistelrooij, but i am in the habit of reading directly all the work of the acts we are discussing here, and the long tradition of the itre committee should have made him understand that. i would like to add one thing: i have met the regions and talked to those who will implement our programmes, and they are the ones who give me this concern, because the commission must also implement the strategic synergy framework, and i am therefore already thinking about the future: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. so, like you, i have read and digested all this material, but i have also already spoken with those who will have to apply it and so i transmit those critical voices and those concerns here.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - madam president, beyond the number of trilogues, i would like to express my appreciation for the effort made by colleagues in this debate to seek a good compromise on one of the policies of the european union which, together with the agricultural policy, absorbs a large part of our budget. the many positive aspects of this new cohesion policy are indisputable, starting with the fact that a certain simplification is being made, which is never enough, but there is a commitment to this; that it is more about results than procedures; the commission has also been able to demonstrate that there has been a greater concentration of themes and that there is also greater integration between the various funds available. however, there is no doubt - and this is not to be avoided - that the fact that we have wanted at all costs to maintain the macroeconomic situation and have not made any significant progress in the disengagement of investment from budgetary discipline, is a reflection of a certain ideological approach of europe which has already done a great deal of damage and which is already making us express our criticism of the compromise reached.
on behalf of the efd group. i am not going to go into that. the new proposal on the european social fund is likely to be a river of fine words. there is no real and immediate response to the economic crisis affecting our citizens, our businesses and our territories. the data is there to prove it: in the previous programming periods, the social fund failed. the assistance provided by the social fund to southern italy, for example, has not led to any socioeconomic improvement in the area, but rather the rate of participation in the labour market has decreased, and unemployment has increased, while the poverty rate has even increased. we all know the truth: how can the social fund benefit the regions if the absorption rate of funds in the member states is around 40 per cent? in short, european funds are being spent only partially and badly. the regions blame the european bureaucracy; the european union accuses the regions of being unable to use these funds. i don't know whose fault it is, but one thing is for sure: the money does not reach the citizens, it does not reach our businesses. the new proposal for a regulation does not address any of these problems. on the other hand, the text is concerned once again with guaranteeing preferential treatment for roma and immigrants, effectively turning all other european citizens into b-class citizens. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. europe must stop its propaganda for its own sake. in a time of crisis like the present one we cannot afford to waste even a penny.
madam president, as the shadow rapporteur on the regulation on the cohesion fund, i would like to express my appreciation of the text which has been put to the vote in this house. as mr boştinaru has already said, resources will be strongly directed towards smart sustainability, involving both the public and private sectors, and the multi-fund approach will also allow for the development of integrated actions, which will make it easier for us to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. on the other hand, as regards the general rules which will be the inspiration for cohesion policy, i would like to reiterate my appreciation of the work done by the rapporteurs, who have made a major contribution to simplifying the rules, to multi-level partnership, to identifying the thematic areas and giving priority to small and mediumsized enterprises, employment, the environment, education and training. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that it has not been consulted on the matter. i refer to the often mentioned macroeconomic conditionality and in particular to those rules which make payments and commitments of structural fund resources conditional on compliance with the terms of macroeconomic policy. this means that the weaker economies, those to which cohesion policy allocates more resources, will not be able to spend these resources, precisely because they are economically weaker and will find themselves, on the one hand, being sanctioned by the european union for not respecting the commitments of cohesion policy and, on the other hand, being restrained because they cannot spend precisely because of this condition. i also do not support the reintroduction of the performance reserve because it will, because of the rules that have been written, lead to an automatic reduction of 6 per cent of the budget allocated to each member state. i do not agree with the downgrading of the so-called golden rule - which was voted by a very large majority in this parliament - from a rule written in the article to a mere stylistic premise, nor do i agree with the rule which this presidency has chosen to adopt for the vote. as this debate has shown, the amendments we tabled on these points would perhaps have won a majority, and a healthier democracy would have triumphed throughout europe.
mr president, the european union's budget for 2014 will be eur 135.5 billion, equivalent to about 1% of the gdp of the member states and about 8% of the italian gdp. italy is a net contributor, i.e. it pays more than it receives. over the past 12 years, it has already paid out some eur 171 billion and received eur 111 billion, with a negative balance of some eur 60 billion. italy is the largest net contributor to europe's gdp and in absolute terms is second only to germany, with 6.2 billion euros. the budget of the european union would aim to reduce divergences and increase cohesion among european countries: we are now seeing that the european budget and the complex procedures for accessing funds are a screen for heavy interference with national budgets. if the european budget is only 1% of the gdp of the member states of the european union, its real value is to be able to decide on the use of the remaining 99% of national resources. but in the face of the growing crisis of our companies, which paradoxically die not because they have debts but because they boast of credits, we are forced to reconsider both the reality of the euro and the loss of monetary sovereignty and the drastic austerity measures imposed by the european union.
mr president, cohesion policy will be an important instrument for growth and development over the next seven years. i welcome the work done in the various regulations. i am referring, for example, to the question of simplification, simplification, facilitating access to the use of the structural funds, governance. in short, there are important issues - from simplification to speeding up the spending procedures to the proper use of community resources - which i regard as a positive fact. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the various sectors of the economy is a good one. we want a europe of growth, development, jobs and, above all, employment for young people.
mr president, cohesion policy is central to growth, employment, training and infrastructure, and to achieving a territorial rebalance in europe. although i appreciate the improvements made by the rapporteur, mrs krehl, i am particularly pleased about one specific point, namely that cultural heritage has finally been included in the key actions. macro-conditionality is unacceptable and completely inconsistent with the objective of the structural funds, but also with the performance reserve, which has not actually been reduced but increased by 5 to 6 per cent compared to the commission proposal. this is a compulsory provision, which in reality corresponds more to the council's desire to delay the disbursement of funds in fact than to rules of good governance, with the risk of complicating and swallowing up activities in the last two years, also creating bad and hasty programming, exactly the opposite of good governance. for these reasons i cannot vote in favour of this negotiation.
mr president, a year ago, in november 2012, commissioner reding introduced a draft legislation aimed at a more equal inclusion of women without executive positions on the boards of publicly listed companies. the proposal was made to compensate for the worrying fact that 85% of the boards of european companies listed on the stock market were composed of men. today's data is not encouraging: only 16.6 per cent of non-executive positions are held by women. these premises are therefore sufficient to justify the need for this report and i therefore hope that tomorrow the european parliament will firmly support the report by the two colleagues, a report which sends a cross-cutting message that can be shared by all: that gender equality is a goal to be pursued. in this respect, my country - italy - has been a pioneer with a law that came into force a year ago, which requires that one fifth of the members of the board of directors be women. this is the message that has been sent and i do not believe my colleagues who have said that women do not need quotas, because in italy today the data are clear to everyone. so we need those quotas.
commissioner, you have heard how long and difficult the road to gender equality is still. however, i think that the proposal put forward by the two rapporteurs is fair and above all balanced. i wanted to emphasize that. as you know, however, it will only apply to listed companies with more than 200 employees. i am glad that the exception for family businesses has been removed from the committee's deliberations, since we do not know what family businesses are. there is no uniform definition in all european countries to identify them. equally important was the removal of the exemption for firms in which the gender presence is less than 10%. the aim is to achieve uniformity and a sense of balance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quotas are not exceeded, that the size of the area is effective and that, if this regulation is adopted tomorrow, we will all have taken steps in the right direction.
mr president, beyond the numbers - all of which can be verified - it is clear that the current layout of the european institutions' premises is not rational and must be quickly abandoned for financial, environmental, economic and logistical reasons. i do not think it is worth agitating, however, because one of the reasons which should lead us to indicate a single seat - we shall see which later - is that we too encounter difficulties and inconveniences. i do not think that this is of any significance to the citizens of europe, because we are called upon to represent them, even if we have to bear these objective difficulties. i think it is very important to consider the fact that, in a period of such a long and severe crisis, citizens are no longer willing to accept the exorbitant costs of politics and that is why we have a duty, first and foremost a political one, to give a clear signal. the hypothesis of reunifying the premises has this power: it is a matter of the european parliament and the council of ministers being able to take part in the negotiations. the rest will come later and we'll decide it together.
mr president, i am glad that for the first time there is a real debate in this house on this subject. since i was elected, i have always thought that this monthly transhumance was a disgrace, a slap in the face to the european citizens, who unfortunately are unaware of all this. i have not been idle, however, but i have tabled a number of amendments in the committee on budgets and in the house to emphasize this waste. some colleagues who at the time accused me of populism have now miraculously converted to the need for a single seat. i thank those who have been fighting this battle for years, and i think i have made a significant contribution to it. but i do not understand those members who still oppose a reform which is indispensable today, thus playing the game of certain states who want to maintain an absurd privilege. a large majority is now needed to ensure that our voice is not left unheard. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. the problem does not concern members because, as far as i am concerned, it makes no difference to go to strasbourg or brussels, although, from italy, brussels is much more served than strasbourg, which, not being a main hub, is not. the problem is all those people - managers and officials - who, with the necessary documents, are forced to move from brussels to strasbourg for only 48 days a year. the problem is also the cost of maintaining this building, which, although it is empty for most of the year, must still be maintained. that is the point of waste, not for us members. i repeat: i am not going to strasbourg or brussels.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are following very closely the negotiations under way in geneva, which are moving at a very fast pace. we stand by the commission, which is once again proving itself - like the european union as a whole - to be the trading power most committed to achieving a multilateral logic, which gives order to global competition which, while creating wealth, does not necessarily distribute it fairly. the objectives are many: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the developing countries. we also have a lot of emphasis and expectations on trade facilitation - all the administrative and bureaucratic simplification - and the possibility for our small and mediumsized enterprises to be protagonists in a global market. of course, we note that at the moment there is no talk of corruption or tax fairness, words which do not appear in the preparatory documents. while i am aware that these are matters for national legislation, i hope that the european union will be able to make its voice heard on these issues, including through its unilateral position. two questions for the commission. the first: the role of the european parliament in ratifying any agreements to be concluded at the ministerial conference. i think it is important, with regard to the agreement on trade facilitation, the amendments to gatt for agricultural policies, the aid package for developing countries, that there is democratic control. the european union is also at the forefront of this issue, having a european trade policy which fully involves the parliamentary institutions. but i'd still like to be reassured. the second: we have so many open days for citizens in europe, consumer days, development days, so why not organise - should we have done this before the ministerial conference - international trade days with ngos and other groups to discuss together the outcome of this conference after it has been concluded?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the commissioner: you spoke of cutting red tape and making goods move faster. so i ask you: why not also talk more forcefully about the common rules to be respected? a few words about the fight against counterfeiting and the designation of origin which makes the world trade organisation countries a or b series. europe is a b-list country, given what the council has decided in the last few days. thirteen years from doha and nothing. lamy was talking about small steps, but they've been enough to keep us going. we would not want it to continue on this path. this parliament, in the last legislature, voted to redesign the world trade organisation. the result is that nothing was done because the outcome of doha was always expected. we're now approaching a new date. we hope that we will not have to wait another 13 years for nothing and that we will be able to adopt common rules which will make the market fair, free and supportive, so that our european industrial fabric will have new hope and so that we can also give hope to those underdeveloped countries which are still considered to be 'super-developed' countries and which benefit from the fact that they remain in the corollary of the developing countries: i am referring to china and african countries.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis which originated in the united states and which has deeply shocked the whole of europe has not only highlighted the importance that certain financial institutions can have for the stability of our economies and the real economy. it also showed that individual investors, i.e. citizens, were also vulnerable, fragile and directly affected by the difficulties of these large financial institutions. any person seeking to invest his savings is necessarily in an unequal situation vis-à-vis the financial operator who is going to sell him investment products. there's a kind of asymmetry in information, and a very high level of understanding between the two sides. this situation naturally leads to much abuse. we are not counting the cases of investors all over europe who bought products sold as safe and ended up with losses far beyond what they could have imagined. it is not surprising that consumers, citizens, have developed a certain distrust of financial service providers. one consequence is that savers no longer invest their savings with confidence or efficiency. this results in a concentration of savings in bank deposits. in many countries of our european union, the proportion of financial assets deposited by consumers in bank accounts reaches 40%, or even 50%. this means that at the present level of interest rates european savers are barely shielded from inflation. it's not good for the economy either. the financial crisis has highlighted the dubious market practices that the different rules in force have not been able to prevent. the distribution of financial products to retail investors is subject to many different texts. similar products are regulated differently. this is particularly the case with regard to investor information requirements. that is why i proposed measures last year to better protect investors. the rules relating to the marketing of products are the subject of separate initiatives (mif and imd2). at the same time, today and tomorrow you are examining a series of transversal measures, proposed in our prips text, which apply to all so-called 'packaged' investment products, with the aim of improving the quality of the information to be conveyed to investors. i believe that communicating information clearly and in a language that people can understand is essential to regaining trust. i am very grateful to pervenche berès, your rapporteur, to the non-attached rapporteurs and to the representatives of the other committees for the work that has been done on this matter. during the debate, questions arose in particular as to the scope of application of this regulation, which you mentioned, mrs berès. i would just like to recall the basic principle which has guided my action since the beginning of our work. we want - and this is the meaning of my original proposal - to subject all packaged products to the same rules. this therefore includes all products which involve market risk, about which the consumer must be precisely informed: investment funds, all structured products, all individual pension products, but also all insurance products with profit sharing. ladies and gentlemen, the council reached a common position on this matter during the irish presidency last june. it is very important that, as a result of your vote tomorrow, the trilogues can begin as soon as possible on this matter which is essential for the citizens, and that it can be concluded in the very next few months as you have indicated, mrs berès.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, prips are at the heart of the retail investment market. they cover a wide range of products estimated to total some 10 000 billion in europe alone. however, there are real information asymmetries on these investment products at present. the information provided is often misleading and overly complex. the risks and costs of different products are difficult to assess or compare and this can create difficult situations where consumers purchase inappropriate financial products at the risk of facing unexpected costs or unexpected losses and, in the worst case, losing their life savings. be careful, though: this situation is not only harmful to citizens as consumers but also poses serious problems for the very efficiency of investment markets, which risk significant losses in terms of competitiveness. the importance of addressing this issue, among other things, has been clearly highlighted by the current economic and financial crisis. in this situation, a consumer who wants to save or invest for future needs needs to be able to access comprehensible information through clear language, focusing on key information. it shall be possible to compare different investment or savings products through a harmonised framework, providing for access to information before the signing of the contract and a sanctioning regime in case of non-compliance with the rules of this regulation. we therefore hope that the proposed regulation and all the work that has preceded it will serve to improve the transparency of the sector and to re-establish a stronger confidence for the future.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. - mr president, the proposal for a regulation on the financing, management and monitoring of the cap brings together in a single basic text all the provisions and requirements for the implementation of the cap, in order to pursue the 2020 strategy effectively. we in the committee have called for it to be uniform across the 28 agricultural systems, but at the same time to strengthen the instruments for exploiting the specific features of each area. the committee's opinion therefore focused on the main target groups of the cap, namely farmers and rural communities, also in the management and monitoring phase of the cap, with a focus on the specific needs arising from local and territorial characteristics. in particular, efforts have been made to rationalise and make more effective the institutional side of the cap and, above all, to reduce or eliminate the undue burdens on farmers. i thank my colleagues on the committee on agriculture and rural development for taking due account of the suggestions made by the regi committee.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not simply a one-off measure, but that it is also a one-off measure. i am also proud to thank the whole negotiating team of parliament, which, among the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, included more than 27 colleagues who, with competence, patience and determination, have succeeded in demonstrating that the european parliament is up to the role of co-decision-maker that the treaty of lisbon has assigned to it. our institution has not been, as many initially believed, a complication in the procedure, but an added value in terms of democracy and synthesis, by succeeding in giving the 28 countries of the union a single agricultural policy that responds to the very different european agriculture. i would like to emphasize that in the last phase we managed to force the council to negotiate also those issues relating to the agreement on the financial perspective, issues which the heads of state or government had arbitrarily inserted in the famous negotiation box. this is a success for parliament, and it will set a precedent for the council to no longer be allowed to take matters out of the ordinary procedure. it is a question of democratic legitimacy and respect for the treaties. finally, in the coming months this parliament, and in particular the committee on agriculture and rural development, will be watching the european commission closely to ensure that the political agreement so laboriously reached by the council, parliament and commission is respected in the drafting of the delegated acts implementing the cap. the european parliament, as a democratically elected institution, will not escape the role of verifying the powers of delegation it has acquired since lisbon. we will do so with the same seriousness, determination and spirit that have animated us during these almost three years of negotiations on the cap: to give farmers and all european citizens a fairer, more sustainable agricultural policy that can meet the challenges of the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cap should have been fairer, but the linear cut in funds, which will be paid out solely on the basis of farmland, is a penalty for smaller farms, such as those in italy. it should have been a greener cap, but in this time of great economic difficulty, in an age of great social change, the sustainability of choices cannot be only environmental, it must also be economic and social because without these two pieces, the first is not achievable. however, some measures in the cmo in favour of agri-food chains linked to quality production that stands out in the world are positive: but we cannot regard this cap as the best possible compromise. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. i fear that the 100 days a year devoted to bureaucratic practices in italy will remain an unbearable burden. it is right that the aid system should be continued today, because we cannot leave the agricultural sector to the logic of the market. but we regret that this reform is essentially a lost opportunity.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if we adopt this agricultural policy now for the next few years, then the policy in this area will become a little fairer than it has been so far. but there will continue to be incoherencies and injustices in agricultural policy which cannot be justified. i refer in particular to the distribution of funds in the first pillar. i come from a member state where for equal areas with equal farming in the first pillar, differences of about 1:10 are normal and 1:20 and 1:30 are common. what is our response to this situation? instead of creating effective internal convergence immediately and quickly, we formulate a safeguard clause so that no one can lose more than 30%, and we refuse to introduce effective capping. the result is that there will continue to be farmers who live solely on premiums, that there will continue to be situations where public funds from the european union are spent several thousand euros on the management of excessive pasture. i think it is time to consider whether this is really the case, and i am also convinced that if we want to save the first pillar beyond 2020, we will have to take more courageous and effective measures to ensure that there is effective internal convergence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have been patiently waiting for the union's budget to be drawn up, which amounts to 960 billion for the next seven years, of which 38 per cent, or about 373 billion, is earmarked for agriculture. we are seeing the reduction in the funds allocated by the european union to the agricultural sector year by year. in speaking today in the debate on the cap, i wanted to bring with me olive branches that i cut in my own land, because i want to express my vote today thinking of the many producers and farms that are striving to achieve quality, excellence and biodiversity in the many european territories and in southern italy in particular. the continuing cuts and the unwillingness of the european union to continue with a tight aid policy risk bringing whole sectors to their knees. we have worked hard in parliament and i am very pleased with the work done to overturn a proposal, the original proposal of the commission, which would have brought entire sectors of production to their knees. we have defended quality products and their value, we have defended farmers' incomes, we have defended - above all with the possibility of voluntary mating - the idea that those who today receive aid should not be deprived of the direct aid and integration that allow so many farms to go on. for these reasons i shall support this reform, which is not what i wanted but which is the best possible and which we in parliament have helped to improve.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after lampedusa, big words for immigration; facts, not one. there is very little in our 2014 programme either, whereas there is a need for a concrete and immediate strategy - now! - to counter these traffickers who create tragedies like that of lampedusa. we are talking about banking financial regulation. just one question: what does the commission expect to report here to the european parliament on the real state of german banks? yet, in the industry, it is well known that in german banks there are hidden gigantic quantities of derivatives, hidden in tax havens for hundreds of thousands of euros, it would seem. some of them were rescued with state aid, especially in the landesbanken area. the reports of huge losses hidden in these tax havens make this communication to the european parliament urgent and necessary for the sake of transparency. i would like an answer from the commission today. it is right that you promise more efficient transport networks for european citizens: but do you have any idea what the situation is of poor sardinia, today under water? there are no highways or efficient roads to get aid to the area. if the commission goes to investigate the situation, it will find that i did not lie. i 'd like to report a fact: the commission has also taken note of the fact that the italian authorities have not yet taken the necessary measures to ensure that the sardinian territory is treated by the italian state as a colony and that it has every reason to claim its autonomy and independence. it is time to speak clearly about the reality of certain regions, which are treated by the national states as colonies. i believe that sardinia at this moment needs the solidarity and practical help of those who must realize the conditions in which it has been left, because this tragedy has those responsible and these must be indicated, also from a political point of view, by the european parliament.
winner of the sakharov prize 2013. − bismi-llahi r-rahmani r-rahim – in the name of god, the most beneficent, the most merciful, i would like to start with a great quote from a great french philosopher. voltaire said: ‘i do not agree with what you have to say, but i will defend to the death your right to say it.’ (applause) mr president, respected members of the european parliament, respected governor of punjab, pakistan, mr mohammad sarwar, honourable ambassador of pakistan to the european union, mr munawar bhatti, and respected, honourable and dear sakharov prize winners, dear brothers and sisters, it is a great honour for me to be here at this important event. the sakharov prize for freedom of thought is a prestigious award for me. this award gives me encouragement to pursue my cause, and i truly feel honoured when i look at the list of previous recipients: amazing and deserving recipients like nelson mandela, aung san suu kyi and kofi annan. i am happy and honoured to have been unanimously nominated and selected for this prize. i dedicate this prestigious award to the unsung heroes of pakistan and to people all over the world who are fighting for their basic human rights. (applause) this great union of countries is a great example of togetherness and unity. i am hopeful that the european parliament will look beyond europe to the suffering countries where people are still deprived of their basic rights, where freedom of thought is suppressed and freedom of speech is enchained. many children have no food to eat and no water to drink, and these children are also starving for education. it is alarming that 57 million children are deprived of education: they cannot go to school. this must shake our conscience. it is hard to imagine a world without education. sisters and brothers, many girls are suffering from early forced marriages and child trafficking. they cannot go to school. there is violence, but still there is hope. there are many hurdles on their way to success. they are neglected simply because they do not have money. they are poor. there is poverty, but still there is hope. girls have been the target of sexual violence and abuse and are confined within the four walls of their houses. there is no freedom, but still there is hope. because of terrorism, hundreds of schools have been destroyed and children have no access to education. there is fear, there is terrorism, but still there is hope. and do you know why? brothers and sisters, there is hope because we are all here together, united to help these innocent children to come out of the quagmire of these troubles. we are here to speak for them. we are here to take action. (applause)dear sisters and brothers, apart from this, we also need a change in our ideology. let us change the ideology of being powerful. a powerful country shall not be judged by counting its soldiers and its navy, but rather we must see which country has the highest literacy rate, which country has more educated people, which country has provided basic rights to its citizens, which country has provided equal status for men and women. (applause)the country with talented, skilful and educated people is the real superpower, not the country with tonnes of soldiers and weapons. let us change our concept. dear sisters and brothers, i would urge the european countries to support the suffering countries, especially in asia and especially pakistan, because pakistan needs help with education, trade and development. an educated and employed youth will be able to shape and transform the future of pakistan. as a human being, i think that for the survival of everyone, the fittest need to struggle for the survival of the weak. if we leave millions behind, we can never succeed and will never survive, even if we are the fittest. i am hopeful that, through our unity and determination, we can achieve our goals and help the 57 million children who are waiting for us. these children do not want an iphone, an xbox, a playstation or chocolates: they just want a book and a pen. thank you so much. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation.)
madam president, i apologize, but i would have liked president cronberg to have spoken on other occasions in favour of the release of iranian hostages in iraq, in addition to today.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would like to congratulate you on concluding your vote on the budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the council notes with satisfaction that the european parliament confirmed the agreement reached at the conciliation committee meeting on 11 and 12 november. as the honourable members will know, the agreement reached by the conciliation committee includes a number of joint statements. the council strongly supports these statements and is fully committed to honouring the stated agreements. let me take this opportunity to thank the chair of the committee on budgets, mr alain lamassoure, and rapporteurs anne e. jensen, monika hohlmeier and giovanni la via, as well as other members of the european parliament who participated in the budgetary procedure for their constructive approach.
the joint draft agreed by the conciliation committee on 12 november 2013 was approved by both parliament and the council. the budgetary procedure has been conducted in accordance with the treaties and the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2014 can therefore be considered to have been concluded. i therefore declare the budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 definitively adopted, which will be signed by the president of parliament today.
we note the speeches but we must proceed to the vote. as you have already recalled, the conference of presidents has already made its views known and president schulz has already clarified them at the opening of the proceedings.
your demands are clear, but they've already been clarified.
i think i 've made that clear , but i 'll say it again . the amendment is inadmissible. we must vote on block 1 first and then proceed with the amendments. this was already made clear at the conference of presidents and by president schulz on monday.
mr harms, i was simply following the rules of procedure. so, even if you find it scandalous, we still have to abide by the rules.
we are about to begin voting on the five legislative dossiers on the reform of the common agricultural policy. these are five difficult dossiers, on which we have been working for more than two and a half years and more than 27 colleagues in the negotiating team have collaborated on this important conclusion. i think it is very important that we all support the compromise by voting in favour so as not to jeopardise the important work of these two and a half years.
that concludes the voting.
in writing. the 2014 budget is the first budget under the new multiannual financial framework, which will take us to 2020, and unfortunately it is marred by all the problems i already highlighted yesterday in the house in relation to the entire programming period (2014-2020). we are not off to a good start if we continue to finance completely useless or even dangerous lines of expenditure for the next year. i am referring, for example, to the money we are still guaranteeing to the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees (unrwa). i am also happy to help these people in their own territories, because in this way they can develop, socially and economically, and so we hope at least to limit the phenomena of migration to our continent: the serious point is that several investigations have found that a good part of these funds intended for palestinian refugees actually ends up supporting organizations linked to terrorism against israel, and this is really unacceptable. we should not waste a single euro, because it is all of our money, at a particularly difficult time: i am not sure that these are the best choices that we could have hoped for from the european union.
in writing. − today's vote has approved the 2014 budget of the european union. in this context, parliament's calls for more funds to be invested in tackling youth unemployment and in developing economic growth through the improvement of programmes such as horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+ should be underlined. the support for the strengthening of frontex, the european agency for the control of external borders and the asylum office is also noteworthy.
in writing. the dehaene report calls for the activation of the flexibility instrument for an increase of eur 89.3 million in additional funding for cyprus. i think it is inappropriate to ask for this funding at the same time as the new multiannual financial framework is being introduced, and that is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance the structural funds for cyprus which are intended to create territorial cohesion. i believe that this is a priority which the european union must support and the flexibility of the eu budget allows us to meet those needs which are becoming increasingly necessary.
in writing. − as approval has been given to grant an additional allocation from the structural funds to cyprus for 2014, it proved necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument. therefore, i voted for this proposal.
in writing. - i supported with my flight the report by mr. la via for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for romania, which was hit by drought and forest fires in 2012, and for germany, austria and the czech republic, which were hit hard by floods in may and june 2013.
in writing. - as this is a mere technical adjustment, i had no difficulty in voting in favour of this draft amending budget.
in writing. − the budget needs to be amended to cover the mobilisation of european solidarity fund to support disaster relief for major drought and forest fires in romania and flooding in germany, austria and the czech republic. the amended budget for the financial year 2013 is a sound and balanced budget plan and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i supported the fernandes report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for romania, which was hit by drought and forest fires in 2012, and for germany, austria and the czech republic, which were hit hard by floods in may and june 2013.
in writing. - when faced with natural disasters, one should put one hand on one's heart and one on one's wallet. in accordance with its own rules, each institution should try to make its own contribution, beyond what individuals want or do not want to do. in this case, i think it is absolutely human to try to find resources through the budgetary folds to help those who have been particularly and severely affected by drought and fires. the european union is and must remain close to its citizens, and this report is a proof of that.
in writing. - in the face of major natural disasters, such as those that have struck romania, germany, austria and the czech republic, we cannot but mobilise the european union solidarity fund as an emergency management tool. the eusf is called upon to respond to disaster situations and to express european solidarity to the affected regions within the eu. i therefore voted in favour of mr fernandes' request to mobilise these resources. i myself, in 2009, mobilised the fund to support the earthquake in abruzzo, and only thanks to it can recovery become a given.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help romania, which was hit by severe drought in the summer of 2012, and in favour of germany, austria and the czech republic, which were devastated by extreme flooding in may and june 2013. it was in these latter areas of central europe that the idea of establishing this european fund was born in 2002, also in the wake of severe flooding. the tragic situation in sardinia these days shows us once again how we are unfortunately very vulnerable to these extreme natural phenomena: it is therefore right that europe too, in a spirit of solidarity which is all too often lacking, should make its presence felt in order to help in practical ways to bring about the recovery of these affected areas. in the past, the fund has also been used to help with the floods in lunigiana: i personally remember the devastation of those territories, and that is why i feel so close to the sardinian people today. the european money will not come immediately and will be tied to certain objectives, especially for the reconstruction of infrastructure. of course, the timing could be improved, but it is still important and necessary to have resources from brussels as well.
in writing. − during the summer of 2012, romania suffered from very low precipitation and repeated heat waves with temperatures as high as 41 degrees celsius, which battered crops, caused forest and vegetation fires and shortage of water supply. the romanian authorities submitted an application for financial aid from the eu solidarity fund to assist the recovery efforts. germany, austria and czech republic suffered from extreme flooding in 2013. both of the disasters qualify as major natural disasters and need additional expenditure. therefore, i voted for the proposal to aid the affected regions.
in writing. - on the basis of the commission's proposal, the vote in the house today was on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund. i have of course voted in favour of aid to romania for the damage caused by the fires in 2012 and to germany, austria and the czech republic for the damage caused by the floods in 2013.
in writing. - i consider the böge report, which analyses the activation of the flexibility instrument to make use of commitments beyond the margin provided for an amount of eur 134 049 037 for the european social fund, to be unbalanced and for these reasons i have abstained.
in writing. − since the commission has re-examined all possibilities for re-allocation and concluded the expenditure could not be financed within the ceilings of budget, i voted for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument financing the european social fund that increases the allocations to france, italy and spain for the year 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the marinescu report on european satellite navigation systems for 2014-2020. it is of fundamental importance for the eu's economic development to continue to support the galileo and enegos programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the establishment and operation of european satellite navigation systems, as it constitutes the new financing and governance framework for the two european satellite navigation programmes, galileo and egnos, for 2014-2020. galileo is the eu's programme for the development of a global satellite navigation system under european civilian control. it will be compatible and interoperable with the american gps and the russian glonass, but independent of them. the european geostationary system egnos, on the other hand, aims to improve the american gps system by means of important applications for aviation and maritime safety. the regulation provides for the development of applications and the maximisation of socioeconomic benefits, the strengthening of the role of the gsa, the european gnss agency, in promoting and marketing the services offered by both programmes, the development of applications and the coordination of a european network of centres of excellence, and a clear governance structure for the relationship between the gsa and the esa. the regulation also aims to clarify the commission's role in assessing the activities promoting the systems and ensuring their use in the various sectors of the economy.
in writing. - when we talk about the european union as a global player, i think of galileo and egnos. let me be clear: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the european research area, the european research area, the european community, and the european community. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, in the belief that the european union can soon extend the scope of satellite technologies to sectors which would benefit from them but which have so far been excluded.
in writing. − satellite navigation makes a major contribution to a wide variety of sectors, such as transport and industry. it is of strategic importance to establish a satellite navigation system for european citizens which is independent of the american gps and russian glonass for positioning, navigation and time. the galileo and egnos programmes have already started and we should avoid losing the benefits. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session, voted this morning a resolution by mr marinescu on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and operation of european satellite radio navigation systems. in a market such as satellite navigation, where the us gps system is undisputedly dominant, developing the community's galileo and egnos technologies means offering citizens an independent european alternative that is also interoperable with the other global navigation systems. to this end, parliament has played a key role in ensuring that the navigation system can be used in the daily lives of citizens. both systems will enable the creation of new satellite navigation applications aimed at improving safety, efficiency and reliability in sectors with many implications for the well-being of citizens, such as aviation, maritime, road and agriculture. for these reasons, i am in full support of a resolution which i believe will make life easier for citizens and represents a great potential for european industry and new jobs.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour because the european satellite navigation policy will make available to the union two very important satellite navigation systems, the system created by the galileo programme and the egnos system. gnss (global navigation satellite system) technologies are crucial for improving efficiency in many sectors of the economy and in many areas of citizens' daily lives. the aim of the galileo programme is to create the first global navigation satellite system (gnss) built under civilian control, completely independent of other existing systems, interoperable with the different navigation systems and designed to provide uninterrupted gnss services. satellite radio navigation is already crucial for european transport and industry and it is important to overcome the dependence on the us gps and the russian glonass for positioning, navigation and timing. european gnss services must be provided by a european infrastructure, which is not dependent for its reliable operation on the military priorities of the usa, russia or china.
in writing. the moreira report provides for the disbursement of eur 180 million in the form of loans to the kingdom of jordan. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary situation in the eu is not affected by the budgetary crisis and that the eu has already allocated eur 303.70 million between 2011 and 2013.
in writing. - i agree with the need to provide this macrofinancial assistance to jordan. among other reasons, there is the tax that this state is paying for its geographical position and for the problems in syria. providing such aid is therefore also an indirect way of providing humanitarian assistance to those fleeing a dire situation. i congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. the report concerns the granting of macrofinancial assistance in the form of loans to the kingdom of jordan. in this parliament, several sums of money have already been given to third countries to settle financial disputes, and sometimes proof of their use has not always been provided. i do not think it would be appropriate to use money for this initiative in view of the economic crisis we are going through. for the reasons stated above, i vote against.
in writing. − jordan has been significantly affected by domestic events related to the arab spring and social unrest in neighbouring countries that increased an inflow of refugees, particularly from syria and egypt. the economy of jordan has suffered from a decreased volume of tourism and repeated disruption of the natural gas supply from egypt. the jordanian government has requested macro-financial assistance from the european union regarding this situation, the european union should take the responsibility of supporting jordan as a neighbouring country, by providing assistance in the form of a loan to authorities and humanitarian aid to refugees in jordan. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − in the framework of the joint statement of the european parliament and the council adopted together with the decision to grant further macro-financial assistance to georgia, the parliament and the council committed themselves to fully reflect the considerations and principles contained in the joint statement in future individual decisions on the granting of union macro-financial assistance. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proust report on the eu-russia agreement on drug precursors. i think it is essential to regulate and control the circulation of chemicals which can also be used for the synthesis of drugs.
in writing. − the regular verification by the international narcotic control board (incb) of the database of countries party to the 1988 un convention on trade data exchange provides startling evidence of the adaptability and operational flexibility demonstrated by criminal organisations in the diversion of precursors and chemicals essential for the manufacture of drugs. it is truly remarkable that there is still no framework for effective international cooperation to respond to these findings and that we must proceed along the more politically manageable but more complicated path of bilateral agreements. i am well aware of the difficulty of balancing the practical aspects of the fight against traffickers with the complex problems of trade and international relations, which in this case is demonstrated by the absence of a sanctioning apparatus and a specific declaration on violations. however, agreements such as the one the report is concerned with must be seen as a precondition, a first barrier to drug trafficking, a barrier which must then be strengthened in the various areas, from best business practices to security, defence and stabilisation policies. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution to approve the agreement concluded by the eu with russia on cooperation in the control of the trade in 'drug precursors'. 'drug precursors' are substances which are lawful in themselves but which can nevertheless be used in the manufacture of narcotic drugs. within the european internal market, these substances are already subject to special import, export and transit arrangements. however, international cooperation remains an essential tool to break up the drug trafficking network and prevent the criminal organisations operating within it from exploiting the opening of the european single market for illicit purposes. the agreement with russia is the latest in a series of similar agreements with the united states, china and a number of latin american countries. i hope that the eu will continue to pursue this path with determination and conclude many similar agreements in the coming years.
in writing. - i supported mr proust's report, voting in favour of it, because i share the need to strengthen cooperation between russia and the eu in the fight against drug trafficking. in advocating the need for greater control over legal substances used in the production of synthetic drugs, such as acetic acid used to produce heroin, the report makes a number of points which i felt it was necessary to support.
in writing. − the eu and russia have long been partners in international trade; at the current stage, it is necessary to improve cooperation between eu and russia to combat drug trafficking. russia has become a destination for drug traffickers; the flow of synthetic drugs between the eu and russia has significantly increased, including highly addictive and dangerous drugs such as amphetamines and methadone. regarding the urgency of improving cooperation to monitor the trade of easily-obtained legal substances which can be used for the manufacture of synthetic drugs, i support the rapporteur’s position and voted for this proposal.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the agreement between the european union and russia on drug precursors as it is part of the improvement of cooperation on the surveillance of these products. the drug precursors are substances which are legal in themselves but which can be used in the chemical process of manufacturing synthetic drugs. the agreement establishes cooperation between the two parties in the surveillance of trade in certain chemicals, a mechanism for mutual administrative assistance and introduces a system of pre-export notification by the exporting country, followed by a three-week period during which the importing country may object to such importation on the basis of written reasons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the russian federation aimed at improving cooperation between these two major trading partners in the field of drug precursor trade surveillance. these precursors are legal substances that can be used in the chemical process of manufacturing synthetic drugs. for example, acetic acid is used in the manufacture of heroin. this agreement is part of a clear european strategy based on a common approach to the major trading powers, in particular producers and consumers of drugs, to curb the trafficking of narcotic substances within them by strengthening joint and ambitious surveillance of trade in the international trade in these precursors, which make it possible to produce a large number of synthetic drugs. the eu has already concluded and signed similar agreements with the united states, china and a number of latin american countries. the aim is to strengthen the barriers to traffickers by enhancing surveillance of the origin and destination of the chemicals and medicinal products concerned without jeopardising the legitimate trade in such products. russia has now become a destination rather than a transit or production area.
in writing. the european commission has concluded an agreement with russia to prevent the misuse of precursors and chemicals frequently used in the illicit preparation of narcotics. i voted in favour of this agreement, which provides for prior notification by the exporting country, which may be followed by objection by the importing country in the form of written comments.
in writing. - i share the position of the claeys report which calls on europol to refrain from negotiating operational agreements with brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates until the new europol regulation has entered into force.
in writing. - i join the rapporteur's position with a favourable vote: it is quite reasonable to wait for the final text of the new europol regulation, which will also affect agreements with third countries. however, i would like to stress, in line with the rapporteur's own reasoning, the need to seriously address the unresolved issues - from the permeability of police forces to the security of sensitive information - which complicate the conclusion of agreements with certain countries. in 2013, the activities of the police authorities of the member states continue to reveal a worrying pervasiveness of criminal organisations from some of the countries concerned in the european territory: in june, an italian police operation was carried out against the georgian criminal organisation of 'thieves in law', active in drug trafficking, human trafficking, money laundering and contract murder. in july, interpol's lionfish operation led to a record seizure of 30 tonnes of drugs from a trafficking organisation operating in the gulf of mexico that had infiltrated europe via french dom-tom. two of many. it is therefore clear that there is an opportunity and an urgency to perfect an arrangement with these countries.
in writing. - as is well known, the lisbon treaty has considerably extended the powers of the european parliament, making it de facto co-legislator, together with the council, in a number of areas of union law, including police cooperation. parliament's participation in the legislative procedure for adopting the union's legislative acts guarantees a level of democratic legitimacy which no legal system, which is based on the principles of democracy and the rule of law, such as that of the european union, can renounce. for this reason i am not in favour of the council unilaterally deciding, on the basis of rules which came into force before the treaty of lisbon, to extend the list of countries with which europol (the european police office) can conclude agreements. parliament could be involved in this area in the context of the commission's recent proposal for new regulations for europol.
in writing. − the text refers to the draft council decision amending decision 2009/935/jha concerning the list of third countries with which europol may conclude agreements. the new states are brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. the director and the management board of europol are requested to refrain from initiating negotiations on operational agreements with the countries listed in the draft until the new europol regulation has entered into force. in addition, some of these countries have low data protection and therefore cannot guarantee the protection of personal data. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − the commission has proposed for a regulation on europol to modify the procedure for concluding agreements with third states and organisations; amendments to the measures for implementing the repealed decision should not be considered at this point. furthermore, privacy and fundamental rights cannot be guaranteed in many of the associated countries, as personal data is under insufficient protection. therefore, i support the position of the civil liberties committee and voted to reject the draft council decision.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it calls for the rejection of the draft council decision which has included brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates among the third countries with which europol may conclude agreements. the director and the management board of europol should refrain from negotiating operational agreements with the listed states until the new europol regulation enters into force. it is also recalled that some of these countries do not have a sufficient level of data protection and cannot guarantee the fundamental right to the protection of personal data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the sartori report on the legal framework applicable to a consortium for a european research infrastructure. the text, which is very timely and balanced, deals in a proactive way with a sensitive and strategic issue for citizens and businesses alike.
in writing. − the european union's real chances of safeguarding its competitive position in the world economy and thus of guaranteeing a future of growth and prosperity for its citizens are linked in two ways to its ability to provide adequate incentives for innovation and scientific advances. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution approving the commission's proposal to promote the establishment and operation of european research infrastructures.
in writing. − the eric regulation was adopted by council in 2009 to facilitate the establishment and operation of european research infrastructures on a non-economic basis. norway and other third countries have indicated that they intend to contribute as host or member to a significant number of erics. i therefore voted for the proposal in support of expanding the membership and scope of eric.
mr president, i have worked a lot on the dossier on the european communities' funds, which certainly has some positive features, such as the simplification features: the commission has also proposed that the member states should adopt a general regulation covering all five structural funds, which will make it possible to streamline procedures and make uniform the rules for the regulation and access to the funds. the introduction of the new category of regions - intermediate regions - which will also allow the economic situations of regions situated between the more developed and the less developed regions to be taken into account, which was a handicap of the previous regulations, is also a positive element; the commission has also proposed the introduction of a partnership agreement with the commission and ex ante conditionality, which will provide sufficient guarantees as to the effective use of the funds. i must, however, complain about the negative entry concerning macro-conditionality. i have already expressed a negative opinion on this matter, which i confirm, and which casts a serious shadow over the whole of the dossier.
in writing. - in a situation where it is necessary to boost investment and the economy of our regions and territories, the management of the structural funds cannot be conditioned by the principle of austerity and rigor. this puts at serious risk the use of the resources available to combat the dramatic effects of the economic crisis. the regions and local authorities must be helped to grow and invest for recovery, not held back by budgetary problems or the rigid constraints of the stability pact. this is the spirit of the instruments and funds of cohesion policy. it would have been useful, as the committee on regional policy initially decided, to separate national cofinancing from the structural deficit calculation, based on a clear distinction between current and investment expenditure. for these reasons i voted against the inclusion of 'macro-conditionality clauses' in the agreement. cohesion policy is by its very nature an investment. introducing strict austerity rules for the structural funds too can only lead to an emptying of the raison d'être of the first pillar of the eu.
in writing. - i believe that the choice of the committee on regional development to base the reform of the new cohesion policy on a clear and balanced strategic framework based on a limited number of objectives and priorities was the wisest choice given the economic context and budgetary constraints. the increased thematic focus of investment will allow for a more concentrated use of resources and they are therefore convinced that the measures envisaged for post-2013 cohesion policy will be adequate to ensure a sustainable economic recovery. we must certainly focus more on competitiveness and, since the report reflects my conviction, i have decided to vote in favour of it. finally, i would add that to ensure that investment has an effective impact, we must promote a new generation of indicators to measure the quality and results of the projects financed.
in writing. - i do not intend to vote in favour of the report by mr van nistelrooij and mr krehl on the common position on the european funds: the procedure leading to the drafting of this text was not transparent and the funding provided is mainly for activities aimed at the integration of the roma community and not equally targeted at all european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation. cohesion policy, which over the years has made a significant contribution to growth and job creation and to reducing disparities between member states and regions, is now even more important. the economic crisis which has struck the whole of europe, which imposes austerity rules to consolidate public budgets, makes the structural funds even more important and requires us to choose the most appropriate rules for the best possible use in terms of effectiveness, efficiency and economy. it is undeniable that, if the european states and regions make good use of it, this funding will undoubtedly be an important lever for the redistribution of national markets and the consolidation of the single european market.
in writing. - today we have seen once again how this europe wants to enslave us, finding all possible means to limit the freedom of action of the member states. the most important issue to be addressed was that of macroeconomic conditionality, i.e. the need to link the disbursement of community funds to compliance with budgetary constraints: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. at this point we have states, forced to comply with absurd constraints imposed by brussels, which can even see funds blocked if they do not comply to the letter with what is imposed by some bureaucrats lacking any popular legitimacy. i would like to remind everyone, just so that it is clear to everyone, that the money for the european funds does not come from brussels by divine grace, but is allocated by the member states, by contributing to the european budget. in the last financial framework 2007-2013 italy left an average of 5 billion per year between what it paid as contributions and what it received in return from these european funds. from now on, we may never see this money back. it's time to ask yourself a lot of questions.
in writing. - i voted in favour because public budgets require us to be more innovative and to make the available funding have a greater impact. the use of its instruments, in particular the structural funds (the regional development fund and the european social fund) and the cohesion fund, has demonstrated its added value as an indispensable investment instrument to effectively support growth and job creation, while responding accurately to the needs of all regions. it has not only contributed to reducing disparities between member states and regions, but also to the economic recovery and development of the union as a whole. the same applies to the agricultural development fund and the fisheries fund. the following elements are strongly supported: ensure better regulation, further simplification of implementation rules, transparency and flexibility and the development of a new generation of indicators to measure the quality and results of funded projects. in the post-2013 outlook, the european structural and investment funds remain the most effective and efficient investment instruments for delivering growth and jobs and easing pressure on national budgets.
in writing. − the text adopted today will enable member states and european regions to focus on the impact of programmes and projects and to worry less about administrative technicalities. the commission will be able to make a contribution to the development of the regions of the union by providing them with a large amount of finance on fairer terms to invest in development projects. the final text, reached after a year of tough negotiations, provides for a significant reduction in the bureaucratic burden required to access funding, given the current economic crisis.
madam president, i voted against this report, although i agree with its approach, because we must certainly support the disadvantaged groups. but i find all this attention a bit demagogic, given the four amendments that were approved - only 29 of us voted against - all of them aimed at favouritism and, once again, generally in favour of the roma population. i am not racist or xenophobic - i condemn them! - but i think that more attention should be paid to the very serious problems that a mass infiltration of roma, who show no willingness to conform to our rules, based on responsibility and work ethic, creates for local administrators in particular. i therefore think that this policy is wrong, since it does not distinguish between a general duty to assist all minorities, and therefore the roma minority, and a commitment to strongly and severely call on these populations to understand the need to show that they want to be integrated, for example by sending their children to school and not by stealing from our homes.
in writing. − the european social fund is an essential instrument for promoting training and employment and for dealing with the alarming figures on unemployment, especially among young people: 23.5% in the eu, which equates to about 6 million young people under 25 - more than 1 in 5 young people cannot find a job. some countries have reached critical figures: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is to be published in the official journal of the european union. it's a real emergency. from 2007 to 2012, 20 million young people under 25 benefited from the social fund through training or mentoring. the youth guarantee is one of the most urgent structural reforms that member states need to introduce. i agree that 20% of the fund should be allocated to the fight against poverty (in the eu 25% of the population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion) and i agree with the rapporteur that 25% of cohesion funds should be allocated to the esf.
in writing. - the report by mrs morin-chartier on the european social fund is very unbalanced and ignores the real problems affecting the management of this fund, first and foremost the excessive bureaucracy in the allocation of resources and the absolute lack of transparency on their use.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the report will allow for a more efficient use of eu resources and a considerable improvement in the effects of policies to boost growth and employment within the union. the proposal provides for the allocation of funds according to the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, a greater thematic concentration, the allocation of 20% of the fund's appropriations to the promotion of social inclusion and the fight against poverty, and a streamlining and simplification of the procedures for accessing the fund. the four main objectives of the proposal are to promote employment and professional mobility, with particular regard to youth employment and professional mobility, to invest in education, skills and lifelong training, to promote social inclusion and the fight against poverty, to strengthen institutional capacity and to create an effective public administration. the new esf will work towards social inclusion, by raising skills and employment levels and speeding up vocational integration. support for young people remains a priority, with 21% of them currently unemployed. through simplification of the rules and procedures for accessing the fund, a more pragmatic approach and more targeted objectives, there will be a better absorption and use of available eu resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on the european social fund. the new proposal for 2014-2020 makes considerable progress compared to the past. the esf has been an effective and important instrument for supporting social cohesion in europe since 1957. in the present situation, it deserves even more attention and our support if it is to continue to produce the beneficial effects it has so far achieved. i agree with the four priorities proposed. in particular, i believe that the esf should also serve as a valuable tool to facilitate the anticipation of future skills needs, to improve the supply and demand meeting.
in writing. - as the european social fund lays the foundations for an increase in employment opportunities in the eu, and as it takes social inclusion into account, an area which i follow constantly as vice-president of the femm commission, i could only support the report by mrs morin-chartier. the appropriations from this fund, which generally promotes easier access to the world of work for young people and objectively disadvantaged people, will also provide tangible support for women and single mothers in difficulty.
in writing. − the current population of unemployed people in europe is estimated to be approximately 23 million. to help these people adapt to changes in the labour market and promote social cohesion, it is of great importance to effectively use the european union’s principal instrument, the european social fund (esf), established in 1957 under the treaty of rome. in the coming period of 2014-2020, the esf will be allocated in promoting employment and labour mobility, investing in education, skills and life-long learning, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty, and enhancing institutional capacity and efficient public administration, as proposed by the commission. regarding its consistency to the mission of ecf, i voted for this proposal.
in writing. − the european social fund (esf) for the period 2014-2020 is making good progress, which deserves my vote, in helping europe's population to adapt effectively to changes in the labour market by co-financing training projects and employment support programmes: the european social fund is designed to support the geographical and occupational mobility of workers. the four main objectives of the esf will be implemented for the period 2014-2020: 'promotion of employment and professional mobility', 'investment in education, skills and lifelong learning', 'promotion of social inclusion and the fight against poverty' and 'strengthening institutional capacity and the creation of an effective public administration'. support for young people is essential, given that 21% of young people in the european union are currently unemployed. the esf therefore remains an important instrument for social inclusion through employment, with an integrated approach supporting personalised or global pathways towards the goal of maximum and quality employment. the esf must also be used as a tool for anticipating future skills needs in order to significantly increase the number of highly qualified workers that europe will need in the near future.
mr president, i voted in favour of mr olbrycht's report, which i congratulate on its excellent work. improving the distribution of european regional development fund support is essential to finally add to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, while responding to the different needs of regions across the european union. i therefore support the setting of a limited number of objectives by means of the new element of thematic concentration, with a view to improving coordination with other specific actions. i am also very pleased that eco-innovation has been included among the investment priorities to strengthen research and technological development. i also believe that the integrated actions for sustainable urban development are strategic and far-sighted.
mr president, we have approved with satisfaction the dossier on the european regional development fund. the 11 specific thematic objectives to be pursued, which are those indicated for the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy to pursue those objectives, are positive aspects and will therefore allow us to approach the targets indicated in those policies for the next seven years, exploiting the cohesion funds. the introduction of thematic concentration, focusing in particular on four of the eleven thematic objectives, which will enable the regions to implement integrated policies, avoiding the dispersion of funds as in the past, should be welcomed. i would like to express my regret, however, that the handicaps of the island regions, which are condemned - i emphasize this - simply to the gdp parameter, have not been taken into account, without any consideration of the need for a direct link. we will have to fight this, but this was not possible because of the voting procedure adopted by parliament, which did not even allow us to discuss some of the amendments we had tabled on this subject.
mr president, today's vote and the procedure followed not only prevented the change in the criterion of macro-conditionality, in order to mitigate its negative impact, especially on certain member states and their regions, but also prevented this house from giving its opinion on another amendment to this regulation, which would have sought to correct a non-political meaning which had arisen from the trilogue at the insistence of the commission and the council. article 4 of the regulation on the european regional development fund introduces a derogation in the concentration of resources, which is intended to respond to the specific natural handicaps of island regions. strangely, however, this derogation applies only to some of these island regions and not to all of them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the initiative in this area, and whether he has not already taken the initiative in the other areas. the island status and its difficulties are the same everywhere and cohesion policy should have taken this into account, thus rebalancing and re-establishing the derogation for all island regions.
in writing. − i am particularly in favour of strengthening the urban dimension, with at least 5% of the european regional development fund resources allocated at national level under the investment for growth and jobs goal going directly to cities and urban areas for integrated actions for sustainable urban development. economic recovery and urban development are key factors for growth and employment in the context of the eu's cohesion policy review, which aims at improving the quality of life and greater social and territorial integration. this translates into a new role for our cities in the direct management of european funds for social housing, urban redevelopment and the safeguarding and enhancement of cultural heritage, as well as additional resources to build more public services, more equipped green spaces and leisure, cultural and sport facilities.
in writing. - the negotiations to reach agreement on the measures in the reports were particularly difficult and the good work done by the rapporteur should be acknowledged. i particularly welcome the strengthening of the urban dimension in the planning of future investment and in particular the mandatory allocation of 5% of erdf resources to cities for their management. however, we must remember that around 80% of co2 emissions are produced in urban areas and that only through strong involvement of local authorities will we be able to reduce these emissions and produce a tangible result in the fight against climate change. although i voted in favour of the report, i do not hide my regret at the lack of substantial funds for this purpose, which could have been allocated for example to the covenant of mayors initiative.
in writing. - i supported the olbrycht report on the european regional development fund: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the cultural heritage.
in writing. - i supported the proposal because the european regional development fund (erdf) is designed to reduce the gap between the levels of development of the various european regions and the backwardness of the less-favoured regions. the proposal provides for the erdf to support local and regional development over the period 2014-2020 by co-financing investments in the following areas: r&d and innovation, climate change and environment, support for smes, services of general economic interest, telecommunications, energy and transport infrastructure, health, education and social infrastructure, and sustainable urban development. to ensure that erdf support is more focused on the priorities of the european union, the proposal provides for more targeted objectives, while taking account of the different levels of regional development. the report also aims to avoid unnecessary duplication of effort and the effects of dispersion and insufficient prioritization, which in the past have limited the added value of european investment. i believe that in a time of scarcity of resources, thematic concentration and the definition of investment priorities in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are essential. the regulation also provides that special attention should be paid to sustainable urban development, in particular by allocating at least 5% of erdf resources to this purpose.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on the european regional development fund (erdf). the result achieved is also a result of the work of parliament, which fought to see its own proposals for amendments incorporated, which have made the programme much more effective and operational. in particular, the scope of support has been extended by introducing the eligibility of small-scale infrastructure for culture and sustainable tourism and allowing support for productive investments to be granted also in the case of large-scale enterprises. another important aspect is that of the urban dimension and its sustainable development, which i consider to be of paramount importance because it is the best way of making the european project a reality at local level, that is, within reach of the citizen.
in writing. − the tfeu provides that the european regional development fund (erdf) is intended to contribute to the correction of the main regional imbalances in the union by reducing the gap between the levels of development of the different regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions. the objective is to contribute to the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. with the new regulation, which i supported with my vote in the house, the erdf will focus on research and innovation, information and communication technologies, smes and the promotion of a low-carbon economy, taking into account the level of development of the region. i am very pleased with the success of the battle waged with the support of my group for the introduction of objectives such as sustainable tourism and the enhancement of the cultural and natural heritage, as part of a strategy for specific areas, which includes the conversion of declining industrial regions.
in writing. the erdf aims to contribute to strengthening economic and social cohesion by reducing regional disparities. amendments were introduced to improve the distribution of erdf support in the next programming period, succeeding in extending it by introducing the eligibility of small-scale infrastructure for culture and sustainable tourism and allowing support for productive investments. the investment framework is clearer and simpler, as it ensures better coordination with the other fund-specific regulations and the common provisions regulation (cpr), through links with the thematic objectives and/or investment priorities. this is an important event in terms of improving coordination and strengthening synergies with the funds and their implementation, with a view to ensuring smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the new element of thematic concentration provides for a high concentration of resources on a limited number of objectives, which should ensure a higher added value of interventions. the new erdf also introduces a mandatory urban dimension for the first time and ensures that greater attention is paid to urban development at a strategic level.
mr president, i voted in favour of mrs pakarinen's report because i believe that cohesion policy plays a fundamental role in the implementation of joint policy actions and strategies between national, regional and local actors in different member states and with neighbouring regions in third countries. it is therefore essential to simplify cohesion policy in order to better orientate the strategies of the programmes. i therefore support the introduction of new criteria, such as thematic concentration and result indicators for the evaluation of the performance of individual programmes. i am also very pleased that macro-regional strategies and so-called sea basins have been included among the objectives of transnational cooperation.
mr president, i do not echo the criticism of my colleague esther ferragut, which concerns the whole island system. we have fought a common battle and that is a pity because we have worked a lot on this regulation on the regional development fund, which makes it possible to achieve a number of objectives. the increased financial allocation, which was not allocated at the trilogue stage, and which was intended to be used for the cooperation objective, is not without its critics either, since its purpose is to achieve greater integration between the activities of the member states. however, some positive aspects need to be considered, including the inclusion of the macro-regional strategies proposed by the regi committee, including the upcoming strategy involving the western mediterranean, which will allow the most effective use of investments concerning the transnational dimension of cohesion policies. finally, it is not superfluous to point out that, thanks to the intervention of this parliament, tourism will for the first time be one of the activities eligible for funding under the cooperation objective.
in writing. - i supported the pakarinen report on the european regional development fund's support for the european territorial cooperation objective. simplification must be the guiding principle of any reform of community funds, so that the resources allocated can be used even more effectively in our territories.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation. territorial cooperation is one of the objectives of cohesion policy, namely the identification and implementation of joint actions and policy exchanges between national, regional and local actors in different member states or neighbouring regions. everything must be done to ensure the smooth running of this programme, which will also be facilitated by the simplification brought about by the use of lump sum payments.
in writing. - i consider the boştinaru report on the cohesion fund to be unbalanced, which is why i did not intend to support the text with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which sets out the new regulatory framework governing the cohesion fund. the latter will contribute to the european union's europe 2020 goal of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth by providing financial contributions to member states whose per capita income is below 90% of the european average.
in writing. − as a part of the common strategic framework funds proposed by the commission, the cohesion fund serves as a financial source in supporting the shift towards a low-carbon economy, promoting resource efficiency and sustainability, enhancing institutional capacity and an efficient public administration, etc. the investments will help enterprises promote energy efficiency and renewable energy projects to meet the requirements of the union’s environmental acquis and address the needs identified by the member states. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cohesion fund because it will continue to be used to provide financial support for projects in the environmental sector and for trans-european networks in the field of transport infrastructure, ensuring a balance according to the investment and infrastructure needs of each member state. support from the cohesion fund shall be subject to: to promote the transition to a low-carbon economy in all sectors, to promote climate change adaptation, risk prevention and management, to protect the environment and promote resource efficiency, to promote sustainable transport and to eliminate bottlenecks in key network infrastructures and to enhance institutional capacity and the efficiency of public administrations. the scope of the cohesion fund has been extended to include support for energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy in the field of housing, as already provided for in public infrastructure and in businesses, and to allow the inclusion of support for district heating and high-efficiency cogeneration of heat and energy as investment priorities. an important change concerns the companies to be eligible for support for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. in addition, an important agreement was reached in the water and waste sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the zeller report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on european territorial cooperation groups. the text is well suited to the objective of simplifying the existing regulation in order to facilitate and promote territorial cooperation, including crossborder, transnational and interregional initiatives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it aims to reduce the bureaucratic burden on european groupings for territorial cooperation (egtcs) and to make the rules governing them simpler and more flexible. the changes introduced include an improvement in the approval procedure for an egtc, ensuring greater transparency and legal certainty for applicants; the authorisation procedure for new egtcs is also expected to be more efficient. the regulation makes a clear distinction between the statute and the convention. only the latter will be subject to formal approval, which will reduce administrative burdens and speed up the authorisation procedure. the staffing arrangements will be made clearer and more transparent. the egtcs will be open to all public enterprises providing public services. territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy and water supply, health, education and vocational training will be facilitated and encouraged. a clearer, more precise and more complete definition was accepted as regards the participation of third countries. third countries neighbouring the union will be able to become members of an egtc. these clear and simple rules will encourage territorial cooperation within the eu and between regions in the member states and in third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which sets out the results of parliament's informal negotiations with the other institutions of the union on the amendment of the new regulation governing european territorial cooperation groups. i have welcomed these amendments, which were introduced in the name of simplification, legal certainty and flexibility in the application of the rules.
in writing. − european groupings of territorial cooperation (egtc) were created to overcome the obstacles hindering territorial cooperation. however, some aspects have been shown to cause confusion and clarification is needed to ensure more visibility and communication on egtcs. the proposed amendments simplify and clarify this regulation to improve legal certainty and encourage better cooperation within the eu as well as between regions of member states and third countries. therefore, i voted for the proposal.
in writing. − in 2013, only 17.6% of non-executive members of the largest eu companies were women. full support therefore for effective and binding measures to ensure equal access and to ensure that - by 2020 - at least 40% of non-executive board seats are filled by women. this is an effective way of tackling the considerable disparity in representation in key decision-making roles that still exists at both european and national level. countries that have introduced mandatory quotas have achieved important results in terms of gender balance on company boards (france +14.4 percentage points; netherlands +8.7 pp and italy +8.4 pp) but the most recent data (april 2013) show that, despite some progress, women represent only 16.6% of the top management of listed companies. but it's not just a matter of numbers. it is about empowering qualified and capable women and breaking down prejudices and stereotypes.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusion of the work on this important directive, which has just been adopted, after a rather arduous process of discussion. the gender imbalance remains very strong in politics as well as in managerial positions in the public and private economy. in italy the problem is particularly acute: although the proportion of women on boards of publicly listed companies increased by 4.9% in 2013, it is still dramatically flat at 11%. it is therefore of the utmost importance that, when transposing this directive, member states should adopt clear and effective sanctions against those undertakings which fail to comply with its requirements. a real improvement on the directive introduced by the european parliament. we would have liked to have done more, to have broadened the scope and the target groups of the directive, but it must be admitted that the compromise reached is generally satisfactory.
in writing. - i did not support this text: in this time of widespread financial crisis, imposing new burdens and bureaucratic constraints on firms already in difficulty is counterproductive to the recovery of the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive. i believe it is of the utmost importance to ensure that women without executive positions are represented on the boards of listed companies up to a threshold of at least 40%. the discrimination which women suffer in the workplace is unjust and deserves our efforts to ensure that it can be eliminated. the european union is doing so much in this area, it is desirable that member states give full implementation to european legislation aimed at affirming gender equality. this additional instrument represents a further step forward.
in writing. - the accession of a substantial proportion of women without executive positions to the boards of directors of listed companies represents a necessary cultural evolution, if we consider that, even today, the european economic system is entrusted to a peculiarly male management. that is why i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mrs kratsa and mrs regner, which lays the foundations for overcoming such a market dysfunction. my support for this report is therefore based on the awareness that gender equality is not only an essential cornerstone of the european value system but also, and above all, an objective to be pursued in practice.
in writing. − promoting the presence of women in top executive positions in companies is a sign of civilization, which unfortunately must be introduced into our systems through the legislative instrument, to recover the gap in presence accumulated over decades. the proposal for a directive, which i supported with my vote, takes account of the operational needs of company management and makes the appropriate distinctions according to the size of the company, taking into account the concerns expressed by the business world itself. it sets a minimum target of 40% for non-executive directors in listed companies, but leaves some flexibility for executives, and introduces a derogation for smes and sectors where women represent less than 10% of the workforce. the levels set must be reached by 2020. i am convinced that the compromise reached is extremely positive, because it opens the way to an important process of democratic growth and at the same time does not undermine the organization of work in enterprises.
in writing. - i have rarely seen proposals as full of useless ideological content as this one: you start with a fair assumption, gender equality, but you end up with ridiculous rules that are hard to enforce. firstly, it is a question of determining the proportion of women in non-executive bodies, as if to say that a representative seat is guaranteed, but at a relatively low level. in addition, they would like to impose criteria for the selection of candidates based not on merit but on sex, leaving the way open to different choices, without understanding on what basis, a real triumph of the contradiction. some passages, i think, are almost ridiculous, such as the one asking companies to evaluate the "creation of a nursery of women ready to take up managerial positions". so you want to create a caste of the chosen and the predestined? i'd like to know what the women who have worked their asses off and earned their leadership positions think. some research and surveys, such as that of the centre for policy studies in london, have also shown that women themselves often do not aspire to these posts, having other aspirations and goals in life.
in writing. − gender equality is among the fundamental rights enshrined by the european union. however, the progress in offering women greater possibilities to take on a leading decisional position in europe is rather slow. this proposal set up an objective to at least 40% of female in non-executive board-member positions in all companies in all sectors; it also offers a framework for member states and companies to take efficient procedures in order to promote gender balance on boards of all listed companies. it is proposed that companies failing to comply in meeting the objective should be subject to sanctions, which will considerably facilitate the process of improving gender balance. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − today, with 459 votes in favour, the european parliament in plenary approved the proposal for a parliament and council directive on improving the gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies. as mrs kratsa and mrs tsagaropoulou's report show, the directive aims to ensure that women without executive positions are represented on the boards of listed companies up to a threshold of at least 40%. by encouraging greater transparency and meritocracy, it offers women greater opportunities to access key positions in business management. this is therefore of fundamental importance given that member states and the european institutions have always worked together to promote gender equality in the economic sphere.
in writing. − the decision to introduce pink shares in european listed companies to ensure that by 2020 at least 40% of non-executive positions in the cdas are held by women is the decision we have been waiting for. sanctioning companies that fail to introduce this procedure will send a strong and clear signal to reverse the trend that in 2013 only 17.6% of women were in the largest european companies. giving deserving, highly qualified women an extra chance to fill a deserving role will allow the entire economic system to reap the benefits.
in writing. − the positive effects of binding targets demonstrate the ability of companies to comply with measures to ensure gender balance at recruitment. in addition, it should be noted that member states where no binding measures have been adopted are still far from achieving an acceptable gender balance. to effectively overcome the challenges facing the eu in a vulnerable economic crisis, the full human capital needs to be mobilised to achieve growth, competitiveness and better financial performance at company level. measures to ensure a better gender balance on boards contribute to that objective. the proposal is based on the principles of equality, transparency, meritocracy and common procedures and objectives. the directive will strengthen social justice in the labour market and contribute to economic growth by making full use of all available resources, skills and strengths, so as to realise the benefits of the eu's human potential. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − european listed companies, under the text adopted today, will have to adopt transparent recruitment procedures to ensure that at least 40% of non-executive board seats are filled by women by 2020. the adoption of this resolution thus sends a strong signal to companies and stakeholders: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy is a very important instrument for implementing a rural development plan. despite the progress made and the positive trend towards improving it, i believe that improvements can still be made. for example, the cap needs to be placed in a context consistent with the development policies of the european union, with close monitoring of its external repercussions and involving governments and stakeholders in partner countries. like my fellow rapporteurs, i therefore believe that the rules on direct payments must be amended in order to ensure a fairer distribution of aid and to promote environmental issues.
in writing. - the commission's proposed package for the new common agricultural policy has been considerably improved by the work of this parliament, despite the strong resistance initially voiced by the council. the mechanism of so-called 'internal convergence' and the overcoming of historical premiums will enable those regions whose farmers have always received lower average aid, such as sardinia in most sectors, to obtain more resources. these are vital resources to prevent the abandonment of the fields and to counter the risk of depopulation of many agricultural areas, inland areas and, more generally, sardinia itself, also because of its insularity. i also welcome, and i am in favour of, the compulsory measures for young farmers, because they too can go in that direction. we need a farming policy that looks to the future, that protects the land and the commons, that guarantees quality food production, and this reform is ultimately in that direction.
in writing. - i did not support the reform of the new agricultural policy because it did not address some of the most important problems that italy has to face: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. for these reasons and because of the loss of important resources for my own territory, i voted against this text.
in writing. the report is the culmination of a meritorious (and never sufficiently acknowledged) work of synthesis and mediation, the fourth pillar of cap reform. among the many merits of my colleague mr la via, i would like to highlight his consistency in his general approach and in his article, always faithful to the principle of reality and free from prejudicial options: i am thinking, for example, of the responsibilities of the states and the clear progress on the relationship between farmers and administrative terminals. consider, amongst others, the implementation of article 66, based on the principle of proportionality and clear practical assessments of the applicability of the regulation: if the european institutions and systems had always followed this method, we might have had a few fewer problems and thus less anti-european reactionary sentiment. this regulation is the face of a europe which is taking reasonable and clear responsibility for the needs of the productive system. even the temporal circumstances, in some ways, help. the transitional arrangements for payments in 2014 allow for a gradual implementation of a policy with which operators and trade associations have plenty of time to become familiar. i therefore confirm my vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, as well as the others in this package. i think that mr giovanni la via has done an excellent job, both in this dossier and in managing the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the common agricultural policy, which are so closely linked. i agree with the objectives which parliament has tried to pursue, starting with reducing the number of paying agencies, and moving on to transparency, fines and efficiency. i hope that this so-called 'horizontal' regulation will set out the criteria for effective management of funds, which is simple and easy for farmers to use and which is crucial for food safety for consumers.
in writing. − the cap is one of the first community policies and still plays a central role in the eu, as the figures in the 2014 budget show. i voted in favour of mr la via's report because i believe it is important to simplify the legislation on the common agricultural policy by establishing common rules on farm advisory services, management and monitoring of the cap. the agreement reached is a solution which responds to these objectives in a timely manner.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the text calls for the continuous improvement of the proper information of investors buying financial products.
in writing. - financial education is a very important topic that i hear from time to time. although the current crisis was generated by so-called "information asymmetries", which allowed the sale of financial products capable of propagating the disastrous effects of rash choices, without the buyer being aware of it, it still seems that basic courses in the principles of finance are a chimera. it is therefore right that the european parliament should demand greater transparency from financial intermediaries, so that small savers have more information, which can be more easily compared, about the investment products they buy. more information means less fraud, or at least less misunderstanding, with greater satisfaction for both the buyer and the seller.
in writing. − any measure that improves and makes financial markets more transparent is certainly to be strongly supported: the report we have adopted today deals with investment products. retail investors are faced with a range of very complex choices and products, sometimes very difficult to understand in depth. the regulation is intended to clarify certain key information which could allow a more informed choice for those who decide to invest their money in this way. unfortunately, there have been many cases in the past of people being totally ignorant of the product they were signing up for, and many times there have been unfortunate consequences. these new rules will certainly be useful, but my advice is that we should always be very careful and not suddenly become experts in matters where we are probably not.
in writing. − though there are a wide variety of different types of investment products available on the market, european retail investors often have difficulties in understanding the complex features of each specific investment product, and have often made investments with unpredicted risk and costs. to improve the transparency of the investment product market and better provide accessible and comprehensible information to consumers to make decisions, the commission proposed to establish a common standard for key information documents and ensure uniform disclosures. in view of the benefit of this programme to european consumers in the investment product market, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i did not support the reform of the new agricultural policy and its instruments because it did not address some of the most important problems that italy is facing: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. for these reasons and because of the loss of important resources for my own territory, i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, as well as the others in this package. i think that encouraging rural development has two very desirable consequences: on the one hand, it allows the full potential of the agricultural sector to be unlocked, mainly because it makes it cheaper to abandon land and therefore increases competition, with the resulting efficiency gains; on the other hand, it is the environment as a whole that benefits from this package of regulations. i was particularly struck by the incentive for women in agriculture: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. - although i did not support the reform of the new agricultural policy which did not address some very important problems which affect my territory closely, but reduced funding for italy, i voted in favour of this regulation which includes some important instruments for the marketing of quality products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, as well as the others in this package. in this case, it was mandatory to approve this part, without which the whole reform would have no meaning: if we do not also talk about how to market and how these markets work, there is no value in an incentive to produce something instead of something else and to behave virtuously. i am particularly pleased that the european parliament has confirmed its position on the school fruit and vegetables and school milk programmes, because education is the way to learn to appreciate quality and to gain health.
in writing. − decisions of farmers as main land managers on maintaining farming systems and practices have a strong collective impact on environmental issues of the european union such as climate change, and such impacts are externalities that are not reflected in the market price. hence, it is necessary to support farmers at european level to make decisions that are favourable to the objectives to optimise the whole of european society. the commission proposed to promote a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, supports sustainable production as well as encourages most efficient use of limited budgetary resources, therefore i voted in favour of this proposal.
mr president, we have today adopted a package of four regulations which will govern agricultural policy for the next seven years. this is a very important vote because today we have approved the european union's agricultural policy for the next seven years in parallel with the agreement on the multiannual financial framework. the reform carried out updates and modernises the first and main community policy action. it does so because, on the one hand, it is putting in place new and renewed instruments capable of providing answers to the major challenges that the european union will have to face in the coming years, such as the protection of the environment and biodiversity and the guarantee of food security, and, on the other hand, because it is seeking to promote a generational change in the sector, with ad hoc subsidies for young farmers who intend to undertake this activity. the new cap will also continue to defend and protect community farmers by reducing red tape and ensuring a fairer distribution of support and a clearer policy on payments, not only between member states but also within member states.
in writing. - i did not support the reform of the new agricultural policy because it did not address some very important problems which affect italy closely: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. for these reasons and because of the loss of important resources for my own territory to the new member states, i voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, as well as the others in this package. i particularly agree with the political objectives and the way in which they have been put into practice: terms such as 'greening', 'decoupling' and others that will soon enter the daily lives of primary sector entrepreneurs, represent a clever way of responding to major environmental, economic, production and quality challenges. i think the rapporteurs have done a very good job.
in writing. - we will have a fairer, fairer and greener cap. more fair because all those who produce, cultivate and maintain the land, all of them, not just some, will receive the cap premiums, including those who grow and produce table grapes rather than vegetables, fruit and vegetables. a fairer cap because there will no longer be historical titles that only a few will guarantee and above all those frauds will be eliminated that in the past meant that some got too much and others too little. and, moreover, with the definition of an active farmer, we will ensure that the cap is only available to those who produce and cultivate and not to those who think that agriculture is only about getting public aid without actually taking care of the land. and then there is strong support for young farmers to encourage the entry into the sector of young people who bring new energy and dynamism. it is a greener cap with greening measures, which were initially very punitive for our territory and which are now very fair measures, which have a very easy impact on the territory and will not cause any disruption to our farms.
in writing. - although i did not support the reform of the new agricultural policy, which did not address some very important problems which affect italy closely, i did vote in favour of this regulation, which ensures the continuity of the aid system between the two programming periods.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation, as well as the others in this package. in fact, voting for this measure is complementary to all the others: in this case, as in agriculture, the legislation has focused on the quality of output, and this has resulted in a delay compared with the original timetable. it has therefore become necessary to adopt this regulation on transitional provisions pending the entry into force of the whole package, and after the expiry of the old programming. i agree with the proposed measures.
in writing. − an agreement between the eu institutions must be reached in order to enable the reformed cap’s entry into force by 2014. specific rules and flexibility instruments need to be established to ensure a smooth transition to the new regulations with minimal losses due to the transition. therefore, i voted for this proposal that lays down these rules.
in writing. i voted in favour of the vlasák report. the commission's proposal is a well-considered one, and its purpose is to ensure that member states benefiting from assistance programmes continue to support projects currently under way.
in writing. − in these times of crisis, resources to deal with emergencies are always scarce. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. rules are necessary and must be followed, but in emergency situations there can be extensions, provided they do not harm those who have respected the deadlines.
in writing. − the recent financial and economic crisis continues to affect the european union, and several member states have encountered particularly serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. to address this issue, the commission proposed to extend the increased co-financing for these member states which have been most affected by the crisis. therefore, i voted in favour of the commission proposal.
in writing. - some countries, including italy, are particularly affected by the crisis. and the younger ones more than the others. i welcome the eu's gesture of providing additional funds, but in the future i hope for a european union that can more effectively stimulate national governments to carry out the necessary reforms. italy does not ask for a fish to be fed today, but it asks for assistance to be able to fish in the globalized sea, to be able to feed itself forever.
in writing. − the european social fund, set up in 1957 under the treaty of rome, is the european union’s major tool for social inclusion through integration into the labour market. as several member states suffered more in the crisis, particularly italy, spain and france, it allocates more funding in these member states where unemployment is significantly more serious than the average. approximately eur 150 million is proposed to be added to the esf 2013 commitments for france, italy and spain, in order to address unemployment; therefore, i voted for this proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the lövin report on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of kiribati.
in writing. - i voted against this motion for a resolution rejecting the establishment of a partnership with the republic of kiribati. the agreement was seen by several parties as mutually beneficial for both the eu and the small pacific island state: i see no reason why it should not be concluded.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs lövin's report on the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and kiribati, as it stresses the need to ensure that this country is supported in the protection of its fisheries resources, and in particular tuna. given that kiribati bases its economy on fishing, it is necessary that third countries with which it has fisheries partnership agreements implement a sustainable policy that respects the delicate balance of marine fauna.
in writing. − the nauru agreement, to which kiribati is a signatory, was established to ensure coordinated management of fisheries resources in its members' eezs and to increase the benefits. its members have negotiated several implementing agreements setting out the minimum conditions for the licence, such as provisions on vessel monitoring, transhipment, closed fishing areas, gear restrictions, landing obligations and observation cover and appeal. shipowners can buy and trade days at sea to gain access to the waters of the countries that have signed the agreement. the un fish stocks agreement, ratified by the eu and kiribati, calls on states to cooperate "to enhance the capacity of developing states, in particular least developed countries and small island developing states, to conserve and manage transboundary and highly migratory fish stocks". overcapacity and excessive fishing effort are key issues that need to be addressed in all regions. in this context, the eu should actively support the current regional actions to address overcapacity and limit fishing effort.
in writing. the debate on the various seats of the european institutions, and more specifically on the three seats of the european parliament, and their operating costs, is a constant subject of debate in this chamber, but also of high attention in the external media and in community public opinion. if we were to give parliament the full right to decide on its seat, its organisation and its functioning, we would be able to respond, i believe, effectively to the many doubts and criticisms that are constantly being raised about the present situation and its costs. this situation deserves a thorough discussion, bearing in mind the historical and political reasons which led to the choice of the three seats of the european institutions, but which must be answered and solved efficiently: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the following text: the fact that the european parliament has two seats is an unacceptable waste against which i am fighting and will always continue to fight.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the report envisages reducing the financial, environmental, organisational and logistical impact of the current relocation of the eu institutions. the report, given the present context of budgetary austerity for many member states, envisages saving resources and eliminating unnecessary expenditure by fixing the sole seat of the european parliament in brussels. the arguments in favour of a single seat for the ep include isolation from the other institutions, the cost of parliament's geographical dispersion, the environmental impact, the constitutional argument (the ep should have the right to determine its own organisation) and the support of citizens, as 1.27 million people have signed a petition calling for a single seat for the ep. the report therefore proposes that parliament should undertake to initiate a regular review of the treaties in order to be able to decide on the location of its seat and its internal organisation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the bureau of the european parliament is invited to request eurobaromater to conduct a survey of eu citizens' opinions on this matter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i have long been a strong supporter of the european parliament's action to abolish its three seats and to define a single seat. this is a situation which cannot be tolerated any longer and which must be changed as soon as possible. the maintenance of three sites has no plausible justification, especially after the great information campaign which has brought to light the environmental problems and the disproportionate costs involved in maintaining the current situation. the important petition signed by european citizens also reminds us of our responsibilities and obliges us to continue fighting to achieve this important result.
in writing. − the organisation of the european parliament's work based on the rule of dual seating produces unjustifiable costs and reduces efficiency. i have been following for some time the various initiatives to amend the treaty in order to restore the unity of the seat. the reasons which led to the decision to split parliamentary activities between strasbourg and brussels have now disappeared. politics must have the strength and courage to go beyond the interests of the individual. i believe that this moment of crisis and the resulting further alienation of citizens from the european project make the need for such a decision very timely. i am satisfied with the answer which parliament has given, also with the contribution of my vote, by supporting the resolution.
in writing. − the european parliament currently has two permanent meeting sites, one in brussels and one in strasbourg, and a third location in luxembourg. meps and staff members have multiple offices and have to travel between the two cities on a monthly basis, which costs significant loss of time in travelling, a large amount of emissions and a waste of european taxpayers’ money. locating the european legislators in a single place will surely reduce expenditure and improve efficiency. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i have repeatedly spoken in this chamber against the maintenance of two chambers which essentially serve the same function. the monthly migration between brussels and strasbourg has a negative symbol for most european union citizens, including myself, as well as a considerable economic cost, especially at a time when the financial crisis is affecting the citizens of the union. we have asked the appropriate bodies to revise the treaties to propose the changes needed to enable parliament to decide on the location of its seat and its internal organisation. the costs, which are converted into potential savings, arising from the geographical dispersion of the parliament (between brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg) are estimated at between €156 million and €204 million - this includes the additional costs of the strasbourg seat, estimated at €103 million. the total cost of the three workplaces represents about 10% of its annual budget. with co2 emissions associated with transfers to and from the three work sites estimated at between 11,000 and 19,000 tonnes. i wonder if, in the face of the general crisis we are undergoing, all this makes sense.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the future of the european union, we often use two very different images: the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step towards the creation of a european research area, which would be a vital part of the european union's research policy. i think that with horizon 2020 we have given a very clear answer: we want a europe which is really a laboratory, a europe which is capable of researching the future while also preserving and being able to better preserve its great cultural heritage. i think that, as we all know, the european continent has lost this primacy of research, both public and private, which has moved to the indochinese side. horizon 2020 is a breath of fresh air in this context for smes. the industrial leadership program, to maintain that leadership that we have today in certain areas for example, like enabling industrial technologies, but that we risk losing if we don't inject a big injection of innovation into the industrial apparatus. i think the social challenges are very important for social innovation, which must go hand in hand with technological innovation, and also for the climate challenge. i am italian, we have all the signs of what has happened in sardinia in recent days, and i really find it necessary to reject those positions which are so obscurantist or mercantilist, which want to deny the evidence of the facts. very briefly, two points: my group fought hard for open access. i believe it is essential that research is not just there, in dusty volumes or files that no one opens, but that it is accessible, circulated and disseminated. finally, as mrs merkies has mentioned, we are supporting research and development right up to the market. i do not know how this should be done, whether by copying the american model or others, but i do know that if we stop earlier, we will give non-european areas the ability to market the fruits of our research. i do not like the adjective 'our' very much because europe is an open continent, but if possible, first in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the setting up of the research and small and mediumsized enterprises funding programme, called horizon 2020, is rightly aimed at rewarding the pooling of funding to achieve levels of excellence. this element of stimulation of investment has never been taken up by some countries, including my own, italy, which has allocated inadequate resources to research and development projects. we must reverse this trend in order to prevent italian funds from going to finance projects not of our own, but of other states which invest more, because the commission rightly rewards them through the cofinancing mechanism. that is, the more you give, the more you receive. in this case, the damage to italian research and small and mediumsized enterprises would be compounded by the ridicule. in fact, of the 9 billion euros that italy is investing in the programme, a large part would be allocated to countries much richer than ours, including germany.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 21 november 2013 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by jürgen creutzmann, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (2014 2020) (com (2011) 0834 - c7-0463/2011 - 2011/0394 (cod)) (a7-0420/2012), and the question for oral answer to the commission 'entrepreneurship action plan 2020 - revitalising the entrepreneurial spirit in europe' by paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000110/2013 - b7-0520/2013) (2013/2532 (prs)) '.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank parliament and mr creutzmann and mr rübig for their contribution, because the compromise reached on the cosme programme shows that, at this particular moment of economic crisis, the community institutions are paying close attention to the real economy and to the 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises which are at the heart of the european union's economy. cosme does not have big figures but it is still important to have given a very clear political message: we want to support this sector and ensure the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises through internationalisation and easier access to credit: cosme contains a dedicated venture capital package, which is too little used in europe, but is doing very well in other parts of the world, particularly in the united states of america. the cosme report is a strong signal, adding to the agreement reached between parliament, the council and the commission on the application of rules different from those of basel iii for small and medium-sized enterprises up to eur 1.5 million, for whose loans basel ii still applies. in addition, a significant part of horizon 2020 funding is reserved for small and medium-sized enterprises. so, it's a strong strategy also for the use of the regional funds 2014-2020: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore share the view expressed by my colleague, commissioner hahn, who has repeatedly said that the funds should not be used for the organization of concerts or village parties. it is necessary to increase employment, to help businesses that employ young people and to build infrastructure. it is in this philosophy, i believe, that the cosme package fits, which will also contribute to the implementation of the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan. i very much appreciate the interest shown by parliament in this matter. the success of smes obviously depends on the entrepreneurs. we need a new generation of entrepreneurs, young entrepreneurs, women entrepreneurs and also immigrant entrepreneurs, as envisaged in our action plan. the training aspect is also important. i hope that all the countries of the european union will use the dual system adopted in germany and austria, which allows young people, once they have finished school, to have a thorough knowledge of the world of work, not only theoretical but also practical. in reply to the first of the questions in mr rübig's question, i would point out that the action plan will be incorporated into the implementation of the small business act and that the commission has already planned the way in which the two initiatives will be coordinated, avoiding as much as possible duplication of action by the member states. so, from next year, the implementation of the action plan will be fully integrated into that of the small business act. as regards education and training as a competence of the member states, we have presented a communication, entitled 'rethinking education', accompanied by an action plan, and we are working with national authorities at all levels and with all stakeholders. there are already excellent programmes in europe promoting the development of entrepreneurial skills in schools and universities (i also mentioned the dual system) and what we need to do is to take these good practices and transfer them into our educational systems. the action plan calls on the member states to include key entrepreneurship skills in school curricula and to provide young people in training with the opportunity to gain practical entrepreneurial experience during compulsory schooling, i.e. as a preparatory step towards the establishment of a genuine dual system: we're going to start with extended internships during the school term and then really have a full dual system. since training and education policies are predominantly a matter for national or regional competence, the effective implementation of the action plan is left to the member states: i am far from wanting to violate the principle of subsidiarity with which i identify. but if we want a genuine european policy to support the real economy, we must also encourage the member states to initiate some reforms. we have taken some concrete steps to encourage entrepreneurial culture and education, particularly among new aspiring entrepreneurs, through the launch of the programme, erasmus for young entrepreneurs, mentioned earlier. the programme supports the development of new skills, the exchange of good practice and the networking of new aspiring entrepreneurs, who are also offered the opportunity to work closely with established entrepreneurs from other member states. finally, to generate growth, innovation and competitiveness in europe, member states will need to encourage young people to acquire more and more computer and technology skills. as regards question 3 the integrated approach to facilitating entrepreneurship those who decide to take risks on their own,should be facilitated in every way. therefore, on a proposal from the commission, the competitiveness council of may 2011 set the targets of three days and eur 100 to start a business. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. through the refit programme, the commission services have mapped all union legislation to identify burdens, gaps and inefficient or ineffective measures. the programme, which follows our consultation on the ten laws which weigh most heavily on businesses, is a decisive initiative to reduce the impact of legislation on the competitiveness of businesses. citizens and businesses will thus be able to benefit directly from this programme. question no 4 was answered during the opening of the debate. question no 5 concerns the vat. i am pleased to inform you that we expect the next commission proposal on the standard vat return to be adopted by the end of 2013 and i am confident that this proposal will bring considerable benefits to small and medium-sized enterprises and especially to micro enterprises. the aim is to enable businesses to file a single tax return in each member state where such a return is obviously required, so as to reduce administrative burdens and obstacles to cross-border trade. thanks to this initiative, annual cost savings of eur 15 billion should be achieved fairly quickly. i can assure you that, after the approval by parliament and the council, the commission is ready to proceed with the rapid implementation of the cosme programme which - i repeat - we consider to be of the utmost importance and which we are already putting to good use with the growth missions i am organising around the world. i am a member of the mission in vietnam, myanmar and thailand, where we promote the entrepreneurial capacity of small, medium and large enterprises in our union to make industrial policy. these are missions which are being very successful, because helpdesks for the internationalisation of small and mediumsized enterprises already exist through the external service of the european union and at the external service embassies. i 'll just quote one fact: during the mission in china, the helpdesk of the european union external service embassy organised about 2000 b2bs between european and chinese companies and there are already european companies working in china thanks to these b2bs. the same thing happened in thailand the other day, the same thing happened in myanmar with vice president ashton, and the same thing happened in vietnam. so we're working very hard because cosme is part of a strategy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used as a financial package in themselves but as one of many instruments to support small and mediumsized enterprises. i shall simply thank the speakers for their reply.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial aspects of the internal market. another commission/eib study states that one in three of europe's small and medium-sized enterprises has direct difficulties in accessing credit. the second difficulty is to find new markets and new customers for its products. the third is to have adequately trained and properly qualified staff. if this is a good analysis of the situation, cosme - and this is a credit to the union - certainly meets two, or perhaps the first three, of these requirements. it is facing the very serious credit problem and i ask, commissioner, that someone at european level - from the commission or from the major financial players in the union - should make his voice heard because the banks must reopen the taps. it is not just the cooperative banks or the banks that deal with the real economy that need to be more available, but also the big banks. those with the authority to do so must ask more forcefully. i am not only referring to the credit made available through bank loans but also to the instruments which cosme has put in place to meet one of the first three needs of small and mediumsized enterprises mentioned earlier. i therefore welcome the initiative of the new financial instruments, which are well known and well tested, and which are indicated as a range of proposals: from equity to risk sharing, to the whole fundamental issue of guarantees. i hope that this leverage effect will really be able to give small and mediumsized businesses a breath of fresh air. the second aspect is also important: i think that cosme can also be very useful here, with the help of internationalisation, especially when combined with all the other actions in our foreign and security policy and all the possibilities for meeting, and i hope that a comprehensive action can be taken there, reminding these countries of their obligations in terms of social standards. finally, i would like to mention the third aspect, namely the question of skills. on the subject of efficiency, climate and the environment, i believe that cosme can help to improve quality and preparedness. two final remarks, commissioner. firstly, in addition to the 60% allocated to financial instruments, this programme provides more support for all the entities in the enterprise europe networks. we know that this is a somewhat heterogeneous network: in my country, for example, it works quite well. we ask you to monitor and support it because it is fundamental but it must be efficient and capable when, in reality, it is made up of too heterogeneous pieces. finally, i would like to mention the subject of the transfer of businesses, which is appropriately mentioned in the programme, as well as tourism and many other new developments. in line with our european activities, i would point out that transfer may also involve conversion into cooperatives. many enterprises can remain so after a crisis, perhaps of ownership, if they become cooperatives. i would ask you to take advantage of this and to study it in depth when it is being implemented, because it is very important.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i commend you on your resilience. in italy, of the approximately four and a half million enterprises, 95% are micro, 4.5% small and 0.5% medium-sized. they produce 57.7 per cent of gdp and create 64 per cent of jobs. in the first nine months of 2013, almost 9,000 companies went bankrupt, closing about 1,000 vat returns a day. the paradox is that companies die because they have credit, and the main insolvent debtor is the state, which owes 130 billion to companies. on the one hand, there is the tax axe of 70 percent, on the other the guillotine of credit crunch. how can we talk about a single currency when in germany the entrepreneur has money at 1 per cent, while in italy the rate applied by the banks ranges from 5 to 20 per cent? the euro has devastated the small entrepreneurs who made italy great. the way out is the redemption of monetary sovereignty.
in writing. about 45% of european citizens today aspire to start entrepreneurial projects at local, regional and national level, and i therefore voted in favour of the creutzmann report, which demonstrates the renewed attention to the 23 million small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the eu. the allocation of around 2% of the mff in the cosme budget does not fully meet the recovery needs and difficulties faced by smes on a daily basis in this historic period, nor does it meet the expectations of recovery and the achievement of the ambitious objectives listed in the programme. however, the €2.5 million allocated remains a good result, and we hope that it will be supported by new funding for entrepreneurship and innovation (eip) under horizon 2020. i welcome the reduction in administrative burdens and the improvement in the conditions for access to credit for smes. both are top priorities for our entrepreneurial realities, especially at local and regional level, as long-term competitiveness depends on real sustainability and cross-sectoral initiatives that benefit the benefit of as many smes as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the update for the next multiannual programming period of the life programme and i also join in thanking the rapporteur for her work on this dossier. life has been one of the european union's most successful programmes since its inception, a programme that, over more than 20 years, has funded 3,500 projects and has been frozen pending agreement on the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i believe that the new elements introduced in the new programming period 2014-2020, as defined in the trilogues between parliament and the council, should be welcomed more than positively. i am thinking in particular of the increased funds provided and the more efficient innovative ways of providing finance, including the increased cofinancing rates and the greater possibilities for developing integrated projects. in this difficult phase of european integration, marked by the demanding search for ways out of a global crisis but characterized at the same time by still insufficient resources, we really need to reverse the logic that is the expression of conceptions of development that are now outdated. it is essential, for example, to revive the european economy and innovation by consolidating a vibrant and eco-sustainable economy, based on a rational and far-sighted exploitation of the available natural resources and contributing at the same time to the preservation of the environment and biodiversity, to be recognised as a real growth engine for europe. of the many new features of the new life programme, i consider particularly central and crucial the priority given to the fight for the conservation of nature and biodiversity and the support for the natura 2000 sites, a veritable european treasure.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about tax fraud and tax evaders, we all agree that the watchword should be 'anti-avoidance', but that there should also be different rules and laws. but in this europe of banks and hidden powers, there is something worse than tax evasion: the hypocrisy. in my country there are entrepreneurs who had to choose between paying taxes or paying their workers: they decided to pay their own workers. there are also multinationals that have paid their taxes regularly, that have used european funds to invest and then suddenly decided to close down in my country to move to another country in the european union where taxes and labour costs were lower. and they used european funds there too. i'm with the first entrepreneurs, the ones who decided to keep jobs in my country. until we have uniform rules for all, we will hardly make any headway in the fight against evasion, which unfortunately remains today a wrong way to survive in this single market of hypocrisy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on his work. this is certainly a difficult subject for the council to reach agreement on, but i very much hope that it will be possible. the fact that we are discussing this in this house is important, as well as being a success of parliament. it is very important to strengthen cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and fraud. but we need to achieve a fiscal union precisely because we need to harmonize income taxation for both natural and legal persons. we have in fact achieved economic union but not fiscal union and we must try to harmonize the system to be even more competitive. i am speaking as an italian, where the tax burden is very high; so let us try to be european in all respects. i would like to address my colleagues and the commissioner on this, because there is one aspect i would like to put to you briefly: does it seem normal to you that an italian citizen living near the french border should pay taxes in italy and, by producing income in france, should also be required to pay an advance on the alpine taxes? true, this deposit will be returned to him, but in the meantime how will he support the expenses of feeding his family? the same applies to all crossborder workers in other areas throughout italy. i call on all of you to urge your respective states to coordinate their tax policies with regard to this particular category of citizens who are forced to move to other member states because perhaps there is no work in their own countries.
in writing. − the riera madurell report 'horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) ' is a well-thought-out and balanced text, which is why i have decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. − i am aware of the importance of horizon 2020 for european development. but my abstention from voting shows that real progress is also driven by the value of human dignity, which is always the same from conception. so while i appreciate the commission's assurance that european money will not directly contribute to the destruction of human embryos and that it will not take steps to promote projects which encourage the destruction of human embryos, i must denounce the contradiction in the commitment to fund research using previously destroyed human embryos: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. however, the commission's commitment to not grant any funding in this field until after a scientific evaluation and, after that, an ethical evaluation is to be commended. i see in this a promotion of the european initiative 'one of us', whose very large numbers of subscriptions are being checked in all the member states. the initiative calls for a major ethical and scientific debate on the use of embryonic stem cells. i therefore hope that the commission will suspend the response to any request for funding for procedures involving the destruction of human embryos until the one of us initiative has completed its course through the european institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of horizon 2020. i am pleased that we have chosen to bring together, for the first time, research and innovation funding under a single 'common policy framework'. promoting scientific excellence will strengthen our industrial leadership and support smes with a financial allocation of €70.2 billion. i agree with the objectives set and particularly support grants to individual high-level researchers and new investments in technology and training. this will certainly help to put a stop to the notorious phenomenon of 'brain drain' by those who have been trained in the member states of the union and then go to non-european countries to have good opportunities to put their acquired skills to use. i also think it is important to provide for new investment in strategic areas such as health, energy, climate action research and biotechnology. finally, i think it is right to allocate at least 11% of the programme to smes, which represent a valuable asset for the whole of europe and deserve our full support.
in writing. - congratulations to the rapporteurs and to all those who have worked long and hard on this dossier. the european union will only be competitive on global markets if it can produce more technology and innovation, which is why horizon 2020 will have to embrace the new challenges of research and not be a mere re-edition of the seventh framework programme. in particular, it will be necessary to focus on the delicate aspects of intermediation and collaboration between the research and business worlds, because technology partnerships only work if they create links between supply-side and demand-side measures. without a strategy to encourage technology transfer, european industries will risk falling behind in terms of technological competitiveness. the stated aim of this programme is precisely to increase europe's competitiveness, and this objective will need to be pursued with maximum commitment as from 1 january 2014.
in writing. − strengthening competitiveness and restoring the european economy is the most important goal of the europe 2020 strategy; research and innovation is a major factor in promoting a knowledge economy that secures more balanced, diverse and sustainable growth. achieving this goal requires sufficient resources, including both economic and human resources, to be allocated in the sector of research and innovation, and encouraging cooperation between european researchers and international leading researchers to encourage development in all fields of science, technology, social science and humanities. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation at european level.
in writing. − the pursuit of the growth and employment objectives at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy necessarily requires the development of a competitive economy driven by research and innovation. to this end, horizon 2020 allocates over eur 70 billion to promote scientific excellence and industrial leadership, which is pursued through support for small and medium-sized enterprises, a true driver of innovation as they permeate the entire european economic fabric. the largest part of the programme, 26 billion, is earmarked for research in the areas most sensitive to citizens, such as health, energy, transport, the environment and food. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the ehler report on the rules for participation and dissemination under horizon 2020 is a well-considered and balanced text, which is why i decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposed rules for participation and dissemination in horizon 2020. the work has been carried out in a very precise and detailed manner and the result achieved is satisfactory. i believe that a good balance between the four principles mentioned, simplification, responsibility, flexibility and reliability, can ensure success in the implementation of the horizon 2020 programme.
in writing. − horizon 2020 is designed to facilitate the shift of europe towards more innovation; however, a budget increase of just about 6.19% falls short of expectations and put the prosperity of this programme at risk. additionally, research conducted and researchers from less developed countries need to be encouraged to participate in projects funded through the research programme. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal that introduces a single set of rules for funding participants under horizon 2020 and corresponding amendments.
in writing. - i found the positions expressed in the matias report analysing the strategic innovation agenda (asi) of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) to be shared, and therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal as it aims to significantly broaden the impact of the eit's activities in europe. the main elements of the report are the strengthening and stimulating of existing kics, the creation of new kics, the increase of their impact and the enhancement of the eit's influence through streamlining its administration and more effective governance. the kics' experiences will be shared through scholarship schemes, an alumni network and a stakeholder forum. these measures will be complemented by efforts to make the governance of the eit more efficient, including through a new monitoring system for the performance evaluation of the eit and kics.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision. i agree that the european institute of innovation and technology is a global brand of excellence and can become more so, thanks to the changes we have made both in terms of its location and the allocation of resources. i also share in particular the new thematic areas to give a real boost to innovation.
in writing. − the eit, as the central instrument for the european union's research and innovation policy, can be transformed into a major centre of learning by hosting and organising specific training actions, conferences and seminars. it could also, as the rapporteur, mr van nistelrooij, points out, be combined with the master's programme and specific training measures, but without the right recognition and visibility, it cannot be exploited to its full potential. with my vote in favour, i intend to support the rapporteur's promotion of the eit to make it a stronger and more innovative partner in europe.
in writing. − the commission's proposed strategic innovation agenda (sia) of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) outlines the priorities for 2014-2020. the eit serves to support the cooperation between educational and research institutes hosting and organising conferences, seminars, summer courses, fellowship programmes, etc. it should also be noticed that generating innovation and actually delivering it requires knowledge and education, not only in science, technology, engineering and mathematics but also in the fields of social science and humanities, which deserves more support than the current level. therefore, i voted for the commission proposal and committee-authored amendments.
in writing. − with the creation of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit), the european union has taken a further step towards a knowledge-based economy, linking the three elements of the knowledge triangle (education, research and innovation) by attracting the most skilled and talented people, while developing its many networks. in order to recover from the multiple crises it is facing, europe needs to find a way to develop its capacity for innovation, aimed at developing sustainable and efficient solutions to societal challenges, such as those identified in horizon 2020, employment and value creation. as part of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established in 2008 with the aim of strengthening europe's innovation capacity. i therefore express my favourable opinion.
in writing. - i found the lamberts report on the european institute of innovation and technology unclear in many of its passages. the risk that this will open the way to a further increase in the misappropriation of public resources is real and that is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the proposal provides for a substantial increase in funding for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the period 2014-2020. the eit, set up in 2008 by the european commission as an autonomous european body to support innovation and research worldwide, brings together universities and research centres to achieve its goal through an innovative concept of cross-border public-private partnerships called kics, knowledge and innovation communities. to date, three kics have been created, focusing on renewable energy, climate change and the information and communication society. the capital increase for the eit under horizon 2020 will allow the first four kics to establish and grow and will pave the way for the creation of six new kics by 2018. the latter will focus on the following themes: healthy living (2014), raw materials (2014), food for the future (2016), urban mobility (2018), manufacturing industry (2016) and smart and secure societies (2018).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation. the european institute of innovation and technology has played a major role over the years and now the horizon 2020 programme aims to strengthen its role to make it more operational and to unlock that european potential that deserves to be exploited. i particularly support the idea of extending the concept of innovation beyond the provision of technological and industrial solutions.
in writing. − the european institute of technology (eit) was established in 2008 in order to promote interactive cooperation of research, education and entrepreneurial activities between universities, research centres and enterprises. the commission proposes to provide the eit with a budget of approximately eur 3 billion and integrate the eit into the horizon 2020 programme. as this will encourage public-private partnerships and innovation across europe, i decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. − the activities of the european institute of innovation and technology will bring enormous benefits to business, research and academia in europe, to train the entrepreneurs of tomorrow and to strengthen the eu's innovation capacity so that it remains a destination for the best talent from around the world, by promoting a constructive dialogue between national and european stakeholders to define methodologies and tools that would allow the eit itself to further contribute to improving the eu's innovation capacity. i am therefore in favour of the report.
in writing. according to european commission data, smes represent more than 98% of all enterprises in the eu (about 20.7 million enterprises) with over 87 million employees. these figures tell us a great deal about their weight in the european economy. smes have already proven to be the main instrument for securing more and better jobs in europe, but they need support, both in political and financial terms, to help us get out of the current economic and employment crisis. i therefore believe that it is important to implement programmes such as cosme, which unlock the growth potential of smes by promoting their access to finance, reducing regulatory burdens and encouraging an entrepreneurial culture.
in writing. − the international competitiveness of european smes is undermined by market and institutional policy failures, such as limited access to finance and markets and regulatory burdens. as a result, european smes have lower productivity and grow more slowly than their counterparts in other parts of the world and have greater difficulties adapting to change than larger firms in europe. recent data show that the difficulties of smes have further worsened following the economic and financial crisis of 2008. in the context of the current multiannual financial framework, the european union is funding measures to support entrepreneurship, innovation and promote the development and growth of smes through the entrepreneurship and innovation programme. the next multiannual financial framework (2014-2020) will include the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) which will focus on competitiveness, growth and entrepreneurship. i welcome the proposal for the cosme spending programme specifically aimed at our smes; however, given its limited budget, in my view it should focus on actions with greater impact and leverage such as reducing administrative burdens, access to finance and markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the creutzmann report on the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises 2014-2020 (cosme). the text calls for the commission to provide concrete support for enterprises by requesting €2.3 billion in funding.
in writing. − i strongly supported the proposal for the cosme 2014 programme as it aims to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of european enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to promote access to finance, to provide business support services, to encourage an entrepreneurial culture and to promote the creation and growth of smes. in particular, the cosme programme is aimed at entrepreneurs, especially smes, who will benefit from easier access to finance for their businesses, citizens who wish to start their own business and face difficulties in setting up or developing their own business, and member state authorities who will receive better assistance in their work to design and implement effective policy reforms. cosme will also contribute to the implementation of the european strategy for the internationalisation of smes, which will help businesses to understand, seize and make the most of all the opportunities available within the community.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cosme programme because i consider it to be a very important instrument for our enterprises, especially smes. the latter, in particular, are one of the fundamental pillars of the european economy and must therefore be helped to establish themselves and, above all, to grow. in particular, the cosme programme is providing eur 2.03 million for the latter aspect to boost their competitiveness through improved access to markets. i agree with the choice to provide for at least 60% of the total financial envelope to be allocated to financing through risk capital or loan guarantees for smes, given the many difficulties in obtaining liquidity from banks. i also think it is particularly important to identify ways of reducing bureaucracy, which is a real obstacle for entrepreneurs who are too often discouraged by the formalities involved in setting up a new company.
in writing. − limited access to finance, market failures, the crisis and regulatory burdens have always undermined and slowed down the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). in my vote in favour of the proposal for the cosme programme (competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises), i welcome the eu's spending programme to support small and medium-sized enterprises, aimed at reducing administrative burdens, market access and bank financing. i remain confident that cosme will also focus on smes at local, regional and national level and not just on smes with cross-border activities.
in writing. − small and medium enterprises (smes) are the major factor in driving economic growth and create job opportunities. between 2002 and 2010, 85% of new jobs in the eu were created by smes. the proposed regulation aims to establish a programme focusing on improving the competitiveness of smes, mainly through reducing administrative burden, providing better access to finance and markets, support for business transfers and incentives of sustainable competitiveness. regarding the important role of smes in implementing the europe 2020 strategy and achieving the goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises make up 98% of the economic and entrepreneurial fabric of the european union. with over €2 billion allocated for the period 2014-2020, the cosme programme is the main instrument supporting entrepreneurship in europe. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that cosme will help to stimulate the entrepreneurial culture and the creation of small and mediumsized enterprises by facilitating their access to finance and providing them with support services.
in writing. − the european competitiveness of european small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) is undermined by the current economic crisis; as a consequence, european smes have lower productivity, and access to finance has become the main concern for european smes as a result of the economic and financial crisis, as banks are more reluctant to lend and investors are more risk-averse. i am therefore in favour of the objectives of cosme which is the only eu spending programme specifically targeted at smes, with one particular feature: cosme will not only focus on smes with cross-border activities, but also on smes active at local, regional and national level where there is proven eu added value. the eu's added value can also be in addressing market failures that cannot be addressed by the member states alone.
in writing. the carvalho report on the specific programme for the implementation of horizon 2020 is an unbalanced text which proposes acceptable solutions but at the same time very uncomfortable ones. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the role that horizon 2020 will play for the whole of europe is unquestionable. it will be a boost to facilitate our excellence, stimulating small research groups and highly innovative start-ups. the synergy between the funding provided for this programme and the structural funds will play a key role.
in writing. − the proposed programme promotes the widening of participation and synergies between horizon 2020 and the structural funds and improves the efficiency of research to be converted into innovative products and services that reach the market. therefore, i voted for approving the commission proposal as amended
in writing. − after a thorough assessment of the next horizon 2020 programme, i have decided to vote in favour of the commission's proposal. the proposal is a real step forward and puts excellence as the main driver for horizon 2020, achieving the goal of achieving closer synergies and maximum complementarity between horizon 2020 and the structural funds. moreover, in the current economic climate it is essential to strengthen europe's industrial base. horizon 2020 must be designed to provide industry with an incentive to participate in european projects. another crucial aspect concerns the construction of the european research area (era). horizon 2020 must be more than just a funding programme: must have a structural effect which is beneficial to the organisation of research at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i think it is of the utmost importance that european statistics are constantly and timely updated, and that they are easily accessible and comparable, because they enable european policies to be structured in a way that takes account of the european reality.
in writing. − the increasing integration of the european union also requires greater consistency in the measurement of phenomena and data which are increasingly available and up-to-date. this report proposes steps forward in this direction, by better coordinating the national statistical institutes and allowing a broader view on the description of what the eu is today. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. − data and statistical analysis is a foundation on which policy-makers make critical decisions. the report calls for a move towards a ‘system of european statistics which guarantees professional independence, sufficient resources and strong supervision including sanctions for cases where quality standards are not respected.’ member states will also be forbidden from delaying the release of certain data. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal in support of promoting accurate and transparent european statistics free of all political interventions.
in writing. − the commission's proposed social change and innovation programme combines three existing programmes - progress, eures and the microfinance facility - into a single new programme. in my view, the commission's proposal to combine the three programmes from 2014 misses the real target: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. therefore, the merger of the three programmes will only lead to administrative simplification for the european commission, without creating any direct added value for european citizens. i also think that certain gaps in the proposal need to be filled, such as clarification on the allocation of funds, amounting to some eur 1 billion, and the operation of the programmes. finally, a programme supporting employment and social policy should involve the social partners and civil society organisations at all levels. i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to set up a strategic advisory council, composed of representatives of the commission, the member states, the social partners and non-governmental organisations, to assist the commission in implementing, monitoring and evaluating the programme at union level.
in writing. - while the steinruck report is a text whose approach could initially be shared and positive, the empl amendments have distorted its intentions and repeatedly call for facilitating the integration of immigrants and ethnic minorities such as the roma, forgetting the support due to european citizens especially in this protracted economic crisis that the eu is experiencing. that is why i did not intend to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. − the merger of the progress (employment, social inclusion and anti-discrimination), eures (support for cross-border workers) and microfinance (to facilitate access to micro-credit) programmes into a single programme for social change and innovation risks not creating any direct added value for european citizens. in particular, the support provided by eures to workers and employers in border regions would be greatly reduced and made less effective. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission to fill the gaps in the draft regulation it has put forward.
in writing. − it is the union’s responsibility to identify barriers to necessary reforms in tackling unemployment and promoting social integration. measures should be adopted to ensure that existing regulations at european level are implemented, and support social innovation across europe. the commission proposed to combine the existing instruments together to achieve the necessary simplification implied in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. therefore, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the fight against environmental degradation and climate change is one of the european union's top priorities. despite the efforts made in environmental policy and the success of the life programme over the last 20 years, the eu still remains patchy and in many cases inadequate when it comes to the environment and climate. i therefore share mrs haug's view that the budget allocated to the life programme is disproportionately small in relation to the problem it is called upon to tackle and the results it could enable us to achieve. the appropriateness of the life programme's budget would be a tangible sign of the european union's attention to environmental issues and a step forward in the search for practical solutions.
in writing. - i believe that the haug report analysing the environment and climate action programme is a text that deals in a systematic and balanced way with the implementation of these programmes at european level. that is why i thought it appropriate to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal as it aims to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the life programme and to make it more closely linked to the priorities of the union. the life programme is a means of addressing the environmental and climate challenges of european citizens. it is a small but well-oriented and effective instrument. integrated projects are the main innovation introduced by the new programme. these ambitious and structured projects have been conceived in accordance with a comprehensive environmental approach and are based on the synergy between the community budget, national instruments and additional funds from the public and private sectors. their main purpose is to support the implementation of environmental and climate policy by promoting a coordinated national and private sector mobilisation of the union countries towards nature, water, waste, air, climate change mitigation and adaptation objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the environment and climate action programme (life). the protection of the common environmental assets and the fight against climate change are two important priorities for the european union as a whole. the member states and regions must be given maximum incentives to be able to use all the funding available in this field. the union has already established very strict and effective environmental legislation over the years. the financial resources for this programme, which amount to eur 3.46 billion, must now be used to the full. i also agree with the system by which projects will be selected: a quality and transparency-based methodology that will allow only the best proposals to be selected. finally, i think it is important to give room to integrated projects which allow the granting of various european funds in a joint manner: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
in writing. − life has been a successful and effective programme addressing challenges related to environmental issues regarding its budget share. it is reasonable to expand this programme to support the development of a sustainable, low-carbon, and resource-efficient economy in europe. according to the proposed regulation, funding is to be devoted to increasing pooling of resources and expertise, providing the platform for development and exchange of best practices and knowledge-sharing, creating synergies across union funds and national funds, and increasing the visibility of environmental and climate action. i find it of great potential and voted for this proposal.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the stolojan report on the 'tax action programme' because, while i believe that the fight against tax fraud is essential, i do not think that public funds to pay for seminars and working groups among tax officials, as proposed in the text under vote, are well spent.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on his work. this is a difficult subject to reach agreement with the council, but the fact that we are discussing this report here is a sign of the success achieved by parliament. it is very important to strengthen cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and fraud, and if this can be a first step towards greater coordination of member states' tax policies, then welcome. i think that the possibility of tax arbitrage between eu countries, whether it be on the taxation of the income of natural persons or on that of legal persons, should be reduced. i regret to see that crossborder workers are caught in the grip of the tax policies of the country of residence on the one hand and of the country where they earn their income on the other, and i hope that there will soon be measures for greater coordination.
in writing. the title of this report may certainly give some initial shock: the last thing i would like is a european tax. the reality is fortunately very different, and it is a question of developing a programme, called fiscalis, which should interact and complement another programme which we voted on today, namely customs 2020. the european commission originally even envisaged merging the two programmes into one, but then it was decided, for a number of reasons, primarily legal, to keep the two initiatives separate, although closely related. this programme on european taxation is essentially intended to improve cooperation between the various authorities in order to prevent crossborder fraud, double taxation and, last but not least, to establish common measures and objectives which may restrict access to so-called tax havens. i believe it is in the interest of all european citizens and taxpayers that all possible measures be taken to deal with the phenomena of tax evasion and avoidance, which increasingly cross the borders of the member states and constitute an objective and serious harm to those who behave honestly and comply with the rules.
in writing. − the proposed fiscalis 2020 programme is the single successor of the previous fiscalis 2013 programme; it aims to support the cooperation between national tax authorities to improve their overall efficiency, thus ensures the functioning of the internal market. having regard to the success of the previous fiscalis 2013 programme, i am convinced that this programme should be continued in the new eu programme period and voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the baldassarre report on the customs action programme. the modernisation and integration of the customs services of the 28 member states is crucial to the recovery of the eu economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution aimed at improving the commission's proposed customs 2020 programme. the strengthening of customs cooperation and the customs union between member states is crucial to ensure the development of a strong internal market, which fosters growth and ensures the full mobility of goods, services, persons and capital.
in writing. − the report refers to the regulation establishing an action programme for the customs of the european union (2014-2020). the objective of the programme is to encourage the european union to strengthen customs cooperation and the customs union between the member states (based on article 33 tfeu). i am voting in favour of this programme because it is of considerable importance and because some 75 to 80% of the funds will be used to adapt the computer systems of the european customs authorities for the purpose of controlling counterfeit and contraband goods.
in writing. - i have already stressed on several occasions the importance, perhaps unknown to most, of customs for the whole european economy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. this is particularly true of the large ports of northern europe, which are often portrayed as models of absolute efficiency: in fact, this is not always the case, because sometimes this supposed efficiency is due to the fact that very soft checks are carried out, i.e. goods are allowed to enter without too much care. this is obviously very dangerous and harmful, because we are being invaded by counterfeit goods of poor quality, often from emerging countries in asia: the consequences of these phenomena are not abstract, but unfortunately very concrete. unfair competition on our market leads companies in our territories to reduce production, relocate or even close down entire businesses, with serious consequences for the economic and employment systems of entire territories. the new european customs programme should allow for greater harmonisation and computerisation of systems within the different member states, with the hope that the threshold and effectiveness of controls will be raised and uniformised everywhere.
in writing. − the commission proposed a regulation on customs in the european union for the period of 2014-2020, succeeding the current regulation. increased cooperation in the sector of customs is consistent with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by strengthening the single market and customs union. therefore, i voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the bowles report amending directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance by postponing its entry into force to 1 january 2016. this gives time for supervisory authorities and insurance and reinsurance undertakings to prepare for the application of the scheme, thus safeguarding legal certainty.
in writing. - as this is a mere technical clarification to delay entry into force, i had no problem voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − as the urgency of preceding the vote before the expiry of the deadline is justified, i decided to vote for the proposal to avoid the potential legal vacuum.
in writing. − the process of trade liberalisation, of which the world trade organisation has historically been the main promoter, appears to have reached a deadlock following the impasse between member states during the negotiating cycle launched in doha in 2001. with a view to the ninth ministerial conference of the wto to be held in indonesia in early december, the european union must make its voice heard loudly so that a process of reform can be launched to enable the wto to return to responding effectively to the new challenges and needs of international trade. in particular, i believe that the wto rules should be geared more and more to promoting the internationalisation and opening up of smes, which are the driving force behind the economies of many countries and therefore a key lever for growth and trade development. for these reasons i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the doha round, aiming at promoting multilateral trade rules and addressing current imbalances in trading, has been stalled since it launched in 2001. considering multilateral cooperation is of mutual benefit to all involved parties, i support the european union taking the leading role in the negotiations and encouraging the necessary structural reform of the wto to guarantee an open, fair and non-discriminatory set of rules for international trade, and i voted in favour of issuing this statement on the doha development agenda and preparations for the ninth wto ministerial conference.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan. the situation we are facing, with low economic growth, high unemployment and a decline in the number of people setting up their own businesses, calls for strong action by europe to provide the necessary impetus for a rapid and effective recovery. we need to start anew from the culture of entrepreneurship to make work attractive again, which can be strategic in solving the crisis we are experiencing. employers undoubtedly need incentives to train and retrain their workers. it is equally essential that the commission intensify its efforts to raise awareness of the eib's financing opportunities for smes. the european entrepreneurship day can also be an initiative that attracts media attention and can serve to highlight and publicize examples of entrepreneurship or entrepreneurs who have succeeded in their work.
in writing. - we all agree that a european strategy for entrepreneurship is needed. entrepreneurship is not a name and a concept in itself, but a concept of growth and jobs. all measures to support an easier start for those who decide to take up this profession, which has in itself the risks and the rewards of a challenge, are therefore welcome. we have also voted today on the new competitiveness programme for smes: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. 'stresses the need to provide incentives to employers who offer low-skilled or unskilled workers (including roma) training programmes and opportunities to gain practical experience directly at the workplace.' i would like to ask someone to explain to me why we need to include a specific, and unnecessary, reference to the roma in this report. i think that many of my colleagues are more concerned with ideological content than with practical measures which are effective for everyone.
in writing. − business is the main contributor to the economy and job opportunities; more decisive measures are needed to promote and enable entrepreneurship, especially among young people in order to improve the development of business and tackle unemployment issues in europe. however, costs incurred by administrative burdens are still high in europe, which is one the main obstacles to the emergence and continuing existence of business. legislators at european level should take actions to reduce these unnecessary burdens. it is also important to notice that different variety of business models need to be considered and appropriate business support services should be offered to small family businesses and cooperative enterprises. therefore, i voted in favour of this plan on encouraging entrepreneurship in europe.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the text in question because, although the common foreign and security policy has become an important pillar of the construction of the european project, the report contains unclear and unacceptable steps and proposals.
in writing. the united states of america has for some time now been pursuing with determination a strategy of readjustment of its interests and its presence in the world. the shift of the centre of gravity of american foreign policy attention to asia and the pacific and the gradual disengagement from the mediterranean and the middle east pose serious problems for the security of europe. the union still has serious strategic weaknesses and the common security and defence policy (csdp) has not made the qualitative leap that the provisions which came into force with the lisbon treaty would allow. it is therefore right that the european council next december, devoted to defence issues, should provide the necessary impetus so that the eu can take responsibility for the security of its citizens, promote and defend its fundamental values and assume greater responsibility for the creation of an area of peace and stability along its borders. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − regarding the changing geopolitical environment, it is necessary to enhance the development of defence capabilities and strengthen europe’s defence industry. communication of security and defence issues at european level is also of great importance and thus should be encouraged. therefore, i voted in favour to support the implementation of the common security and defence policy and develop the defence and security market in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gahler report which highlights the potential of defence cooperation between member states and the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the integration of the european defence industry - in addition to being a great potential for innovation and growth for the european economy as a whole - is an essential step towards europe being able to play a more important role in defending its citizens and promoting peace and stability at international level. it is therefore right that the eu should take all the necessary measures to strengthen the industrial base of the sector, reduce the fragmentation of demand and finally ensure the necessary coordination of member states' defence budgets, thus avoiding unnecessary duplication.
in writing. − the report concerns the strengthening of eu industrial and defence cooperation; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. the aim is to facilitate cooperation on joint military programmes while maintaining a level of transparency for each member state's military procurement. i am voting in favour of this because the common security and defence policy requires a strong industrial and technological base for european defence.
in writing. - a common european defence policy is essential, beyond useless ideological judgments, for a number of reasons: firstly, we cannot accept that the european union should play a secondary role on the world stage, subject to the choices and influence of the united states, russia, china or other emerging powers. i am speaking of the european union because it is undeniable that the 28 member states alone cannot play a significant role in this specific area. the technological research and industrial base are constantly evolving, and require massive investment: it is therefore necessary for the european states to coordinate their efforts to avoid unnecessary duplication and to concentrate on joint projects. fortunately, we have lived in peace on our continent for some 60 years, and nothing can portend war between our states: there are obviously many things that don't work as they should, but i think history has taught us all that guns don't solve anything. european armies are therefore used almost exclusively for missions outside our borders, often jointly: i believe that proper coordination will bring many benefits, primarily economic ones, which are particularly important in this period of crisis.
in writing. − as government spending on defence has significantly increased in many third countries, europe should improve its competitiveness in the defence sector as the budget has been cut back. also, further steps need to be taken to harmonise defence at european level, abolish protectionist measures and promote a more liberal, competitive single defence market of europe, as well as to improve mutual market access between the us and europe and the resulting imbalance in defence trade. therefore, i voted for this proposal which addresses the above issues.
in writing. - it is pointless to continue economic integration if it does not include the solidarity dimension. the political group to which i belong has as its core values solidarity to go along with the market economy: competition is fine, healthy competition is fine, but those who fail should never be left behind. in nature there are many species of animals that, when moving in a pack, adjust the speed of the group to that of the slower member. we who are trying to go beyond mere animal logic must try to take on the slower ones to keep moving forward at a brisk pace. in this sense, a european union that is only good at imposing restrictions and austerity has no future. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which rightly underlines the importance of the social dimension in economic and monetary union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the real tragedy lies in the consequences of all this, namely the slow and inexorable disintegration of the social dimension of the union, which must be stopped absolutely and immediately. the most worrying figure concerns unemployment, especially among young people, which has reached alarming levels in the so-called peripheral countries of the eurozone: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. alongside unemployment, there is still widespread and poorly paid precarious work, wages with less and less purchasing power, and often, because of the crisis, essential health and welfare benefits are also being cut. all this is unacceptable and cannot be sacrificed in the name of absurd economic measures which are not bringing any benefits.
in writing. − the economic situation in europe has caused high levels of unemployment, which is a significant obstacle to the development of a social european union. therefore, i voted for the proposal to call on the commission and the council to provide relevant indicators and improve transparency of related programmes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you must thank parliament because if it had been for the council, this reform would probably not have been as sustainable as we helped it to be. it is environmentally sustainable, it is economically sustainable and i believe it is also sustainable because of the role of parliament in the social field. but good things need to be applied in the most punctual way possible. you see, we've gone from a boatman and boatman's hub to a fisherman's hub to a sea hub. i would like to see the commission's implementation of this new reform, which puts the sea and the fishermen at the centre, interpreted in this way. the fishermen because they are the social compatibility of the intervention, the sea because it is the container that will perhaps guarantee that we will be able to catch a little more in the future than we are making the sacrifices we are making today.
i would also like to say that i am not going to read what i have prepared, because i do not want parliament to betray the debate we had half an hour ago on fisheries reform. because, half an hour ago, we said that we had to have a sustainable policy and that we had to help the sea produce more. today we're ready to betray this aspect: that is the real betrayal, not the changing of opinion while building a parliamentary position. no one was concerned when, for example - not in the azores, but in the mediterranean - there was a ban on bottom trawling at a depth of 1,000 metres. there, too, the behavior was generalized. you cannot be absent when you are speaking for one side and present when you are speaking for the other. the council is totally absent. three presidencies: the irish, the cypriot and the lithuanian governments have not put this item on the agenda, and this is of unprecedented gravity! i do not think it was merely the inertia of these presidencies, but a real lobbying action by those who have an interest in keeping things as they are in the north atlantic!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a simple thought: two years ago we failed to reach a fisheries agreement with morocco. in the last two years there has been no such agreement and no dialogue between the saharawis and morocco. i don't see why, if we re-do it, this should be the start of a virtuous phase. two years ago we gave the commission clear instructions, not saying that the agreement was illegal, but saying that this agreement, as it was, was not right, it had to be changed. the commission comes in after two years and brings us a revised agreement. what is the reason why we should fail, if that agreement is exactly what we were told two years ago? i think that parliament, the commission, the council and europe are missing a great opportunity in that area, namely to follow up the resolution we adopted two years ago and repeatedly in this parliament, where we do not move a finger politically as europe to open a table of discussion in that area and we continue to hide behind the pitiful veil of the un! i think that should be the responsibility of parliament. we still have time tomorrow to vote on the fisheries agreement and at the same time to give a clear indication of the conditions for european foreign policy to deal with this issue, otherwise we will be waging war on the little fish and with the little fish we will not solve the problem of the saharawis or even of morocco.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, to hear the supporters of this agreement refer repeatedly to the categories of legality and respect for international law seems to me to be a serious act of weakness. the problem cannot be considered a legal one, it is a political one: we are faced with an agreement which undoubtedly improves on the previous one in certain economic respects, but which does not solve the very delicate issue of the rights of a people. we are dealing here with an agreement which intervenes in an occupied territory, using the resources of that territory without in any way asking the opinion of those concerned. that is a violation of rights. how can this be solved politically? there are other countries, such as the united states, which are prevented in their trade agreements with morocco from intervening in the saharawi, we must do exactly the same thing, for a political reason that helps a process of democratization that is far from being realized.
madam president, morocco invaded and militarily occupied the territory of western sahara and has no legal title to dispose of western sahara’s natural resources. the eu should not be an accomplice to a colonial robbery. if morocco and the commission had intended to take into account the reason behind parliament’s rejection of the fisheries agreement, they would have included in it the need for morocco to give to the sahrawi people the revenues coming from the exploitation of their waters. otherwise they could have excluded from the agreement the waters of western sahara, following the example of the us congress and us government, which do not include western sahara in any economic agreement with morocco. none of that has happened. the text of the agreement contains only a generic and hypocritical reporting obligation for the kingdom of morocco on respect for human rights in international law. morocco does not have the slightest credibility in this regard as it continues to practice torture, arbitrary arrest and detention, along with targeted assassination and political persecution in the occupied territories. i reiterate therefore my earlier invitation to vote against this shameful agreement. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – the question has nothing to do with the core subject of this discussion. even the usa can do something good; what they do is not necessarily wrong. the usa has been a colony of a european power, they rebelled against it, and internationally on this kind of issue they often take exactly this position. they do not endorse colonial occupation and robberies.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the court of appeal in milan almost halved the sentence for a young roma man who, while still a minor, in january 2012 in an suv had run over and killed a local police officer in milan, dragging the body of the poor guard for over two hundred meters. the boy was granted mitigating measures by the courts on the basis of the family life context in which he grew up, characterized by the commission of wrongdoing by the adults of reference and the total absence of schooling. and so, in less than three years, this killer could be on the loose again. all this is happening because in italy - and also here in europe - there is a system that scandalously protects the roma, with a false sense of goodwill, so that it becomes impossible to criticize these people and indeed we must defend and protect them more and more. people are tired of this discrimination in reverse and it is time to stop complacency towards roma, because then the opposite effect is achieved, namely increasing mutual hatred and racism. this report deals with facilitation in education and employment. i would like to say that in italy, the school is public and open to all and if roma children do not go to school, it is because their families prefer to use them for theft and begging, activities that are certainly more profitable. in theory, roma are individuals like any other, although with a particular predisposition to crime, which we all know. i do not see why they should be so supported and protected in a particular and certainly shameful way.
in writing. it is no coincidence that this resolution, which i supported, was initiated by a colleague from my own group, the epp. it would be expected, in the collective imagination, that the social, welfare, employment and gender rights of roma women, together with a bolder integration policy, would be the exclusive prerogative of a political part of this parliament. we on the centre-right are united in this with our colleagues on the centre-left, and today i supported this resolution which seeks to integrate, promote and protect the role of roma women. because integration is based on the recognition of the rights that the eu promotes for all european citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago in a neighbourhood of the city of prato, in the very civilised tuscany, seven chinese citizens were killed in a fire and two others were seriously injured. they worked in a textile factory and slept in the same factory, working and living in inhuman conditions: they reflect the high level of risk and danger that is inherent in all underground work. of course, the local authorities are the first to deal with these phenomena, followed by the national authorities. i think we must be aware that illegal work and the dangers it entails are a major european issue which must also be addressed by means of supranational regulations, controls and sanctions, whenever there is a lack of certainty and controls to ensure that these people are protected.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs jeggle, for this recommendation on the negotiation of the canada-eu strategic partnership agreement. this is a timely and excellent initiative because we are finalising the negotiations on trade and on strategic partnership with canada. you know that the eu and canada are natural partners with historic ties, shared values and common interests. our wide-ranging cooperation goes from regional stability and the environment to energy security and higher education. it started out in purely economic terms in the 1950s and has grown into a real and strong strategic partnership. our economic ties, as you know, are very strong but the trade agreement set out will further boost these trade and investment flows. the strategic partnership, spa, enshrines the joint values and aims to take relations to another level. it promotes a deepening of the ties in all fields of cooperation beyond trade and economics. the announcement of a political agreement on ceta also creates the right conditions for a swift conclusion of the negotiation of the spa, which is important as it provides an overall framework for eu-canada relations and is therefore a natural companion to ceta. the european parliament's support in concluding this partnership is key to its success.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 december 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the brief presentation of the report by ms véronique de keyser on the efforts of the international community in the development and state-building of south sudan [2013/2090(ini] (a7-0380/2013).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to praise ms de keyser for not only an excellent report but also for the consultative process which has been building up to this report. we have been given a very detailed overview of the many opportunities but also of the magnitude of the challenges faced by south sudan to achieve peace, stability and prosperity. the commission agrees with the many recommendations in the report and considers it an important road map for continued eu action in south sudan and the wider region. the current political, social and economic situation cannot be understood in isolation from the country’s history, but if you look at the country’s history you see that in just eight years the country has built institutional structures of governance, significantly improved access to education and health facilities and created opportunities for better livelihoods. the progress made is impressive. as the rapporteur has justly said, the european union has greatly supported these state- and nation-building efforts with very high levels of investment. we have established a solid partnership with the south sudanese government and with civil society. with key international partners, we are now spearheading efforts to forge a new partnership with the government through a new deal compact based on mutual accountability. in this process we will continue to advocate the importance of joining the cotonou agreement in order to establish a predictable and long-term partnership with the eu. let me finish by expressing the european commission’s full adherence to the importance of the role of women and girls in the healing process and dealing with the past. the most important lessons development actors have learned is that the systemic exclusion of women and girls from economic, political and social life is the greatest barrier to development and this is a lesson that is at the centre of our action in south sudan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 december 2013.
the agenda includes a brief presentation of the report by kay swinburne on the recovery and resolution framework for non-banking financial institutions [2013/2047(ini] (a7-0343/2013).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank ms swinburne for an excellent report. it is true that the regulatory framework in this area is in line with the international commitments undertaken at g20 level to improve the functioning of financial markets and to avoid taxpayers having to bear the cost of the failure of a financial institution. we welcome the contribution this report makes to this important debate. so, based on our own consultations and the international work underway under the aegis of the financial stability board, we agree that the priority in this area should be to develop appropriate tools for the recovery and resolution of central counterparties. these institutions, already systemic by their nature, are set to grow further in importance as the g20 commitment to bring over-the-counter derivatives into ccp clearing houses is implemented. regarding the other institutions mentioned in the report, we agree likewise on the need to focus efforts on implementing the stronger prudential requirements currently being finalised at eu level – the solvency ii regulation on central security depositories – and to roll out appropriate proposals in due course for their recovery and resolution, taking account of the findings of the ongoing international work. we appreciate the consideration the report gives to some of the key questions which a regulatory framework for ccp recovery and resolution will need to address: for example, mechanisms to allocate potential losses which exceed existing requirements or contractual arrangements should be transparent and effective. in view of their central role, the continuity of the services provided by ccps should be safeguarded but this should not be done in a way which distorts incentives for the users of ccps or gives rise to moral hazards. the commission takes note of these and other issues raised in the report and will carefully consider them when preparing its policy response in this area.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 december 2013.
the agenda includes a brief presentation of the report by ms angelika niebler on the eu industrial policy on space - unlocking the potential for economic growth in the space sector (com (2013) 108 - 2013/2092 (ini)) (a7-0338/2013).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, let me first thank the rapporteur, ms niebler, for a very important report on a very important industry because space is a key enabling sector for europe’s economy, and space activities require and generate innovation and scientific, technological and organisational excellence. it is for that reason that eur 11 billion has been committed in the next multiannual financial framework to the eu’s space programmes, be it galileo, copernicus or space research. a considerable amount of this money will be devoted to space activities. it is therefore essential to ensure the most efficient possible use of such investment. good coordination among our stakeholders is essential: member states, the commission, the space agency and others. it is also essential that we ensure coherence in the programmes and avoid duplication in spending and structures. a reflection along these lines is already underway following the recent commission communication on establishing appropriate relations between the eu and the european space agency. ms nieblerʼs report is also right in stressing the need for europe to seek technological non-dependence and develop the critical technology to pursue its space ambition and maintain a competitive position in the world. it is at this global level where we need also to be very careful. the commission is doing that, not only in the context of the ongoing eu-us transatlantic trade partnership negotiations but also for the long term by way of a study which will be issued in the second half of next year. finally, the rapporteur advances the role of the private commercial market for the european space industry and the importance of the satellite communications sector. the commission has proposed a number of measures which could help develop the space market, including services. we will take action in areas including research, procurement and spectrum availability and, where necessary, regulatory action.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 december 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. today, countless services depend directly or indirectly on space technologies, and many non-space-related sectors benefit from the technical achievements of the space industry. the european economy has always been a leader, but it is now threatened by the emergence of new powers such as india and china. in this context, the european parliament has shown the need to step up our action by increasing the synergies between the civil and defence sectors and by strengthening the coordination between the space activities of the eu, esa and the member states, in order to achieve technological independence and european access to space. it is therefore important to give new impetus to the galileo and copernicus (gmes) programmes and to satellite communications in general, for an ambitious european space policy based on a real internal market for industry, with a coherent legal framework. that is the spirit of the parliamentary initiative, which i voted for.
the agenda includes the brief presentation of the franck proust report on cars 2020: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the report mr proust has put on the table in this house is of great value because it shows us how important the car industry is to the european parliament. the european commission thinks the same and, through its action plan, it shows its willingness to place the automotive industry back at the very heart of growth. as far as the implementation of the cars action plan for the automotive industry is concerned, i am convinced that this is an inspiring example. it shows how a well-coordinated process can lead to structural changes. this pro-action plan has significantly improved coordination between the commission services and stakeholders. smart regulation for instance. the commission made sure that no additional unnecessary burdens would be created for industry. we propose legislation only where more predictability was needed for the sector. the european commission also attached great importance to the overhaul of the type-approval procedures in order to align them to international rules for the purpose of making them more effective and to reduce unnecessary burdens and cost to industry. in this respect the work on the review of the framework directive for motor vehicles is ongoing. clean vehicles. the commercial impact that light vehicles can have vis-à-vis tomorrow’s energy challenges is very significant. that is why we adopted the clean power for transport package. in particular, the communication on a european alternative fuel strategy and the directive on alternative fuels infrastructures at member state level aim at facilitating the development of the single market for alternative fuels for transport in the whole european union. concerning r&d and access to finance, the european commission presented in 2013 a proposal for a european green vehicles initiative to co-finance research in the area of energy efficiency and alternative fuels. we are also working on improving access to finance for smes. cosme has a budget of eur 2.3 billion for the period 2014-2020 and the eib will represent the main source of financing for smes at european level. let me conclude by informing you that we have started to reflect on how to take cars 2020 beyond 2014. eu-level instruments can hardly be considered adequate without effective parallel structures at national and regional levels and, to this end, we are working together with industry.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 december 2013. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. with its indispensable contribution in terms of employment and innovation, the automotive industry is a central element for the european economy and a driver for its growth process. this text recognises this role and, while acknowledging the growing difficulties facing the automotive sector - due to the current crisis and the consequent contraction of the european market - it defines an action strategy consisting of coherent policies and interventions targeted at the crucial aspects of this sector. among these, it proposes to fund innovation and human capital through a series of regulatory initiatives to support research and innovation; improving market conditions through the reduction of red tape and the application of more streamlined and effective regulation; strengthening competitiveness on non-european markets through an internationally harmonised trade policy; enhanced and improved cooperation between the various levels of government and the various actors involved in the sector, inspired by the principles of fairness and transparency. the adoption of this action plan will therefore be a key step in the setting of long-term objectives to maintain the competitiveness of an industrial sector of major importance for the european economy and employment.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation we are about to adopt today concerns the seven-year programme of action of the european union in the field of justice and is being carried out in accordance with rule 51 of the rules of procedure with two reports and two committees of this parliament working in association, the other being mr claeys, rapporteur for the libe committee. the aim, through the seven-year programme, is to foster and promote european added value in the field of justice. this is our responsibility under the treaty, we have full responsibility in this area. the objectives of this week are cooperation in judicial proceedings, strengthening legal training and improving access to judicial instruments for all social classes. i should like to devote my report not so much to a detailed illustration of the content of this proposal for a regulation as to its deeper meaning. the fact that we have today established and promoted the stockholm programme and other initiatives aimed at bringing together the judicial actions of individual states under the umbrella of the european union is a very important step forward because it directly affects european citizens. all citizens in europe need effective justice, effective access to justice in society, but the way to overcome the fragmentation that exists within europe between state and state and even within each state, which is an obstacle to mobility, to the development of the european community of citizens, to the affirmation of the european citizenship of each of us, the overcoming of this fragmentation today cannot be pursued only by traditional methods. common european law is now a very large body of law, full of rules, directives, regulations and other types of legislation. the concrete result of this work has certainly led to the growth of the rights of european citizens, but it has not been sufficiently spread, applied, implemented sufficiently throughout europe. our task today is not only to continue to produce new rules, but also to check that they are being implemented, that they are actually affecting the interests of the citizens. this can only happen if we constantly check what the outcome is and why the fragmentation still exists and the difficulty of actually implementing has become the main problem. i would say that in these seven years the work of the european union must fill the gaps in the general system, which is essentially aimed at achieving effective justice and thus overcoming the difficulties and resistance that exist in the application of european law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while 30 per cent of italians are living below the poverty line and do not know whether they will be able to buy food in 2014, today we are discussing how to squander 389 million euros on mere talk. the seminars, conferences and the inevitable programmes for roma integration cannot be the priority in the area of justice. the rules of this europe of integration are hidden behind politically correct hypocrisy and need to be completely rewritten. we always say that there must be solidarity between states, but with 20,000 syrian refugees arriving on italian shores, it seems an outrage to talk about quotas for foreigners. is this european justice? no, it is a profound european injustice. the 389 million should be used, and it is right to use it, to help people in their own countries, to repatriate illegal immigrants, to make agreements that allow immigrants to serve their sentences in their country of origin. that is the common sense that should be used in these chambers to restore real social justice to the european citizens for whom 389 million euros well spent would really make a difference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. this programme on rights, equality and citizenship has great ambitions, although, objectively, the financial allocation is rather limited. nevertheless, the programme rationalises the available resources and allocates them to specific objectives, to the real priorities of the citizens: we are talking, for example, about the protection of people with disabilities, of whom there are some 80 million in europe and who represent 15% of the entire population of the european union. we are talking about the promotion of equality between women and men and gender mainstreaming, one of the founding values of the european union. we are talking about combating all forms of violence against children, young people, women and other vulnerable groups. i will focus on violence against women: we must remember that 25% of women in europe have been victims of violence at least once in their lives. so this is a very serious phenomenon. we also talk about children, who are among the most vulnerable groups, especially in situations of risk such as disappearance, abandonment and abduction. think about it, in europe, about 250,000 children go missing every year. we are therefore talking about promoting the rights of citizenship of the union. i would like to stress that in a period of euroscepticism, where there is a strong disconnect between institutions and citizens, maximum efforts are needed to increase awareness and knowledge of the rights and responsibilities associated with citizenship. the credibility of the european project, the trust of voters and citizens, is at stake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner reding, there is no doubt that efficient and speedy justice gives credibility to this important machine in the eyes of the citizens. i support the justice programme, as well as the citizenship programme and the work of the rapporteurs, because i believe that this effort is worth the idea of a strong europe that gives concrete space to citizens. it is therefore a form of justice that is affordable to the citizen and guarantees the effective protection of his rights. no to discrimination, yes to real equality. a just justice that avoids overcrowding of prisons and guarantees dignity to the person. a single area of criminal justice which, with the european public prosecutor's office, will be able to effectively protect the finances of the european institutions and citizens, ensuring that right to european citizenship to which the european people are strongly striving.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that today is a very important and exciting day for all of us who have worked on this document. the negotiations were long and we are finally voting on the new civil protection mechanism, which i believe is a small but important step towards a safer europe, towards a safer world. i'd like to start by thanking you. i would like to thank all the members of parliament who have worked constructively together from the very beginning. i believe that parliament has once again shown that it is the institution most sensitive to the feelings of the european citizens. we know that the european citizens are not experiencing europe in an extraordinarily positive way at the moment, at least for a large part of our fellow citizens and especially in certain sectors. there are, however, wide areas in which europe can work and show its citizens that europe is close to them, that europe is a friend, that it is the common home of the european citizens. i think we are finally writing a positive chapter in this regard today. we are expressing our solidarity with this document, with this new mechanism which is revolutionary, which completely changes the philosophy of the current civil protection, which is already an extremely important and useful instrument, and we are telling our fellow citizens today that europe is standing by them and i hope that from here a path of dialogue with all the peoples and citizens of europe can also be started. as rapporteur during the trilogues i was able to work - precisely because i had the backing of a strong and firm parliamentary position - to ensure that parliament's position was maintained, that it was strengthened, that i was able to defend and promote it. i also thank commissioner kristalina georgieva for her passion. anyone who is on the ground and lives through those dramatic hours of disaster response and is among the people and sees what the suffering is, the heartbreak and the wounds that are inflicted on communities and families, on people affected by these immense disasters, which are happening more frequently and with more violence today, i believe cannot but convey that emotion and that deep humanity, that charge of humanity that is breathed in those places. that's why, i think, we've written new chapters on prevention and preparedness. a new chapter on prevention because what we want is to protect citizens by preventing as much as possible, we want disasters to be prevented and if they cannot be prevented we want their effects to be reduced significantly. we also want to promote a culture of prevention. it is enough to think of risk management plans, a fundamental tool for planning a coherent and efficient risk management policy, as well as the creation of the voluntary pool of funds that states on a voluntary basis identify and make available for operations under the mechanism. it is a lot of pages, but i did not want to dwell on the technical aspects that we all know, i wanted to emphasize that we have tried to overcome even those which were some of the perplexities of the states, having as its pole star subsidiarity and solidarity. solidarity and subsidiarity are to be found throughout the document. i am grateful for this and i shall be listening to the speeches of other members besides the commissioner.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank members very much for all the comments made. let me make four points: firstly, for this legislation we are harnessing the will of our citizens. it is very important to stress that nine out of ten europeans have told us that they want us to stand together in the face of growing threats that affect their lives, their livelihoods and their property. secondly, we are setting up solidarity where it makes sense, and where we can do more for our people. 90% of disasters are local, and there the solidarity mechanism has no direct role to play, but for the 10% of disasters that overwhelm either our countries or a third country, this solidarity makes a huge difference: fewer people die and there is less damage. we are also harnessing solidarity between civil protection forces themselves, because when our teams train together, work together and deploy together they are much more effective. indeed, let me stress that we are harnessing the solidarity of the solidarity fund, as we have worked together to make sure that the solidarity fund and the civil protection mechanism can effectively be deployed with simplified decision-making for solidarity fund deployment. thirdly, this is about respect for solidarity. we have built this proposal to be a bottom-up system, not a top-down one, and i am very grateful to those who have recognised that we have done a good job together with parliament and the member states on that point. last but not least, my fourth point is that this is about cost effectiveness. it is about creating a culture of preparedness and prevention which we so much need for a future where inevitably, because of climate change, this is going to be one of more frequent and devastating disasters.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to all the speakers and to the commissioner, i think we are talking about something very important here today, because we are talking about solidarity, we are talking about the european spirit, we are talking about citizens who are already demanding more europe and, i repeat, this is something that does not happen very often these days, but we are already talking about a european civil protection system that works. in these days in my country, in venice in particular, a european exercise is in full swing, which began yesterday and will last for four days, involving teams from several countries, the united kingdom, austria, estonia, hungary and, of course, italy. we are talking about a european mechanism which is already working, which we want to make even more efficient, based on the experience gained, and it is not so important how much money has been invested - which is still very, very little, because if we open the prevention chapter, we have to put billions there - but we know that prevention costs much less than intervening after a disaster has occurred. i'd like to close with something: this weekend i was at the 16th day of the civil protection volunteering in friuli venezia giulia, the italian region where the italian civil protection mechanism that is known in the world was born. the then commissioner, mr giuseppe zamberletti, was also present. i guarantee you that if you were there you would understand what we are talking about, because we are talking about a community that after 40 years of that terrible earthquake still has gathered with emotion on this day where, in a region of only 1 200 000 inhabitants, volunteers have given and we have quantified in the last ten years a value in volunteer work that can be quantified in 200 million euros. i think that's where the sense of civil protection lies, the sense of belonging to a community, the sense of solidarity, the sense that we can look to the future and give back a more resilient society and community and territory to our children and to the generations that come after us. i believe that this is the best and most positive aspect of the european union. i thank you again for this and believe me, today's vote may seem a small vote, but it is a very important step. i think today is a day to remember and i thank commissioner kristalina georgieva once again for all she has done and the passion, the great passion she has put into it, the heart.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is of fundamental importance in the work of this parliament, it contributes to the construction of the common european area of justice, freedom and security and it introduces a single instrument, simplifying the existing ones, to achieve the objective of building the single european area. so a single programme that combines criminal justice, civil justice and the instruments for prevention and information on drugs. the commission will allocate eur 472 million to achieve this objective. i think this is an important programme, and i think that supporting targeted spending in this direction also helps to promote growth, because the level of justice in a territory measures its degree of civilization and its degree of attractiveness. i believe that we are taking a step forward in the direction of building the single european area, but also in the direction of the growth of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the justice programme 2014-2020 aims to develop a european area of justice based on mutual recognition and mutual trust, in particular by promoting judicial cooperation and cooperation in civil and criminal matters. in all its activities, it aims to promote equality between men and women, the rights of children and to combat all forms of discrimination. i therefore voted in favour of this programme, which i regard as an important means of achieving a european legal and judicial culture.
in writing. − the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions in civil and criminal matters, a common european legal culture among professionals in the field, the judiciary and prosecutors, and a thorough knowledge of eu legal instruments are essential elements for the effective establishment of a european judicial area. mutual trust between legal practitioners should be promoted through knowledge of national judicial systems in order to ensure the smooth functioning of judicial cooperation. i would like to stress that judges, prosecutors and professionals dealing with judicial matters concerning children (particularly vulnerable subjects such as victims or witnesses) should receive appropriate and specific training on their rights and needs.
in writing. − the main objective of this programme is to promote the effective, comprehensive and practical application of community legislation in the field of judicial cooperation and civil and criminal matters. this is complemented by a commitment to make eu justice more accessible and a programme approach to drug prevention and control. the text also calls for funding to be concentrated on raising awareness among citizens, combating illicit trafficking and other illicit activities linked to drug trafficking. in line with the council's position and after closely following the negotiations and identifying its priorities, i and my colleagues from the epp decided to vote in favour of this text because we consider it to be in line with our expectations in this area.
in writing. − i found the positions expressed in the report by mr berlinguer and mr claeys, analysing the new 'justice' programme 2014-2020, to be agreeable. the programme envisages the merger of the three existing ones, rationalising and simplifying the subject with the consequent saving of resources and a possible maximisation of results.
in writing. − i supported the justice programme 2014-2020 with my vote in favour. i think it was a good choice to combine the three previous programmes into one programme: this will improve accessibility and awareness for those, natural or legal persons, who wish to benefit from these funds. it is important that the union provides financial support to help member states in the prevention of drugs, crime and the suppression of illicit activities in general, which remains a top priority for the improvement of our civil societies.
in writing. − the report concerns the justice programme 2014-2020, the european commission's programme which will bring together the three funding programmes for the period 2007-2013 (civil justice, criminal justice, drug prevention and information). the programme has a budget of eur 472 million and will be targeted at public and private actors in the field of justice. the objectives of this programme are: to create a common area of justice for judicial cooperation in criminal and civil matters, to facilitate access to justice, and to prevent and reduce drug trafficking. i find the objectives described above to be shared. i am voting in favour of this programme because it is useful.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice in which people are free to move. to this end, the union may adopt measures to develop judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters and to promote and support the action of the member states in the field of crime prevention. in further developing a european area of justice, respect for fundamental rights and common principles such as non-discrimination, gender equality, effective access to justice for all, the rule of law and a well-functioning and independent judiciary - and i emphasise the latter adjective, having voted in favour of the report - must be ensured.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am extremely pleased with the work that has been done and i voted with conviction for this report which introduces a new programme for rights and citizenship for the period 2014-2020, making available substantial european union resources for the purpose of promoting awareness of the heritage of citizenship and protecting the rights associated with it. the single programme also aims to simplify the instruments, since it will incorporate the three previous programmes relating to the promotion of citizenship. i am pleased with the result achieved by my group, the european people's party, in terms of the emphasis it has placed on the protection of minors among the citizens. the commission has already taken the initiative in the matter of the legal protection of minors, and i would like to ask the council to take the initiative in the matter of the legal protection of minors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is founded on respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and fundamental freedoms. that is why, without hesitation, i voted in favour of the rights, equality and citizenship programme 2014-2020, which aims to contribute to the development of a europe in which the equal rights of persons as enshrined in the treaty and international conventions are promoted, protected and effectively implemented. only by increasing our knowledge of the union's law and policies, and of the values and principles on which they are based, will we be able to look to the future with a brighter outlook.
in writing. the epp approved the council's text as it aims to improve the exercise of existing rights linked to the concept of european citizenship. the ultimate aim is to promote and protect the rights already contained in the tfeu and the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. - although the göncz report is a text whose approach could initially be shared and positive, its continuing call for funding for many projects that seek to facilitate the integration of immigrants and those belonging to ethnic minorities such as the roma cannot find my support. that is why i did not vote for this text.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the rights, equality and citizenship programme 2014-2020, which is an important source of funding for european actors interested in pursuing actions in a social sector of some importance. human rights, equality between citizens and a sense of belonging to europe through a conscious citizenship are fundamental pillars to ensure the sound and effective continuation of the european integration process. it is not enough to say that rights exist, but they must be recognized in practice. the financial allocation for this programme is therefore: i hope that many individuals and companies will participate in the calls.
in writing. − non-discrimination is a fundamental principle of the union. article 19 tfeu provides that measures are to be taken to combat discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. non-discrimination is also enshrined in article 21 of the charter to be applied within the limits and in accordance with article 51 of the charter. the specific characteristics of the various forms of discrimination should be taken into account and, in order to prevent and combat discrimination on one or more grounds, appropriate measures should be developed in parallel. we therefore welcome this 'rights and citizenship' programme proposed by the commission.
in writing. the winkler report calls for the extension of the trade preferences granted to moldova for wine exports. as i consider it a priority to protect our producers in this time of crisis, i shall not be voting for this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it seeks to ensure legal certainty and continuity of trade flows between the eu and moldova, despite the delays in the world trade organisation's authorisation of the extension of the preferential agreement currently in force.
in writing. the report concerns the request to extend for another two years the increase in the tariff quota in duty-free (ec regulation no 55/2008), i.e. the modification of the quantity of moldovan wine that will be exempt from duty annually in order to continue its wine exports to the eu. considers it inappropriate to grant trade preferences to the republic of moldova in view of the difficulties faced by european producers due to the economic crisis; that is why i am voting against.
in writing. the vote on the winkler report approved, after the inta committee gave a favourable opinion, a package of unilateral trade preferences for moldova as an urgent measure to support the export of moldova's products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted for this agreement and i, who voted for it, am still a little bitter about it. the saharawi people are a subject which this parliament has failed to take up either in this report or in any joint statement that could have been made. i think we have missed an opportunity, although it was inevitable to vote for this agreement because the commission was asked to draw up a new one two years ago. but there is something else that must open us up. this agreement will have to be managed and the management of this agreement will have to be a little more inclusive. unfortunately, this agreement is now the property of only a few european countries and only a few european countries benefit from it. the commission must, in its implementation phase, widen the scope and create the conditions to ensure that other countries can also use this agreement with their own vessels.
in writing. − i was strongly against this agreement it is a blatant violation of human rights. morocco invaded and occupied militarily the territory of western sahara and it has no legal title to dispose of its natural resources. today, in entering into an agreement for the exploitation of western sahara’s waters, parliament has agreed to be an accomplice of a colonial robbery. the text of the agreement contains a generic and hypocritical reporting obligation for the kingdom on the respect of human rights and international law. morocco does not have the slightest credibility in this regard, as it continues to practice torture, arbitrary arrest and detention, along with targeted assassination and political persecution in the occupied territories. for all this reasons, today i feel ashamed of the results of the vote.
in writing. - we have approved the text of this fisheries protocol with morocco for two fundamental reasons. firstly, the fishing categories are the same as in the previous protocol and, although the number of vessels is reduced from 137 to 126, the fishing opportunities increase by about 33%, mainly due to the increase in the category of industrial pelagic fisheries (from 60 000 to 80 000 tonnes). secondly, the fishing zones have been modified to better adapt to the needs of the fleets and to allow certain requirements imposed by morocco to be met. thus, the extension of the zones for categories 1 and 2 reflects the industry's request to include the port of mohammedia which, in addition to being an important port of refuge, has landing facilities.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the estevez report on the eu-morocco fisheries agreement with my vote, as the text does not provide for the exclusion of western sahara from the territorial application.
in writing. the committee on fisheries' report, which led to the negative vote, was particularly critical on three points: the economic aspect, which highlighted the low cost-benefit ratios due to the low use of fishing opportunities; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the moroccan fisheries sector is protected from the effects of the environmental aspect and, in the rapporteur's view, the financial contribution has had little impact on the moroccan fisheries sector. the fishing categories are the same as in the previous protocol and, although the number of vessels is reduced from 137 to 126, the fishing opportunities increase by about 33%, mainly due to the increase in the category of industrial pelagic fisheries (from 60 000 to 80 000 tonnes). the largest reduction is in category 3 (20 to 10 vessels) and 4, the most underused category, where the previous 22 vessels are reduced to 16. the fishing zones have been modified to better adapt to the needs of the fleets and to allow certain requirements imposed by morocco to be met. thus, the extension of the zones for categories 1 and 2 reflects the industry's request to include the port of mohamedia which, in addition to being an important port of refuge, has landing facilities.
in writing. - the fisheries sector is central to the moroccan economy because of its importance (more than 65 000 jobs and some 500 000 indirect jobs have been created) and because of the potential for strengthening and increasing cooperation between the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean, with the resulting economic development and social progress for neighbouring countries. in 2009, morocco launched the halieutis plan to ensure the sustainability of resources, the visibility of economic actors to foreign investors and to ensure that fishermen benefit from the benefits. the plan also aims at developing the region through dedicated projects (such as the expansion of the port of dakhla and the construction of the new port of boujdour), with a turnover of 366 million to be shared locally through national programmes to improve the work and living conditions of fishermen, support the work of women involved in the commercial and processing sectors and ensure the accessibility of fish products to all moroccan consumers. we must increase our support for morocco, which has managed to reorganise itself through appropriate reforms, which have put an end to the uprisings, and which is europe's gateway to the mediterranean countries. the union must speak for the interests of the mediterranean.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco. the protocol takes into account the european parliament resolution of 14 december 2011, improving environmental and economic sustainability. the text introduces legal obligations to ensure the sustainable exploitation - and limited to surpluses - of fishery resources. the cost to eu taxpayers is reduced by an increase in fishing opportunities, making the protocol more economically beneficial. the protocol includes clear commitments on respect for human rights and democratic principles and obliges morocco to report on the use of funds for sectoral support, economic and social benefits and their geographical distribution. for these reasons, i believe that the protocol is an important signal of the eu's concrete commitment to a sustainable fisheries policy and represents an additional tool for monitoring compliance with international law.
in writing. − the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and morocco will greatly benefit europe, as european fishing vessels will be allowed to obtain a maximum of 126 licenses in the categories of small-scale fishing, demersal fishing and tuna fishing, and for a maximum of 80 000 tonnes of catches for industrial pelagic fishing. sustainability is also highlighted in the protocol; therefore, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted against this new eu-morocco protocol. i would like to remind you that we already rejected the conclusion of such an agreement in december 2011. i am firmly opposed to the european commission's approach which once again seems unable to give the european fisheries sector the proper value and which proposes in return to pay 'fishing rights' to neighbouring countries. the principle that the internal well-being of the eu depends on the political stability and economic prosperity of its neighbours makes the european union lose sight of the need for a more careful assessment of the consequences of certain choices which have a strongly negative impact on important national realities (and here i am referring to past agreements which this parliament has unwittingly endorsed concerning the mutual liberalisation of agricultural products). here europe is actually asking us to pay for the permission to access moroccan fish stocks, when perhaps the solution should be sought in mare nostrum. greater freedom for our fishermen to fish in the mediterranean instead of hampering them with unreasonable quotas would prevent agreements of this kind, with an unbalanced cost-benefit ratio on our european budget.
in writing. - i fully agree with the positions expressed in the steinruck report analysing the ilo convention on the safety of chemicals at work. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. − the current eu legislative framework on basic safety standards for the use of chemicals at work is still incomplete. the ilo convention on the prevention of occupational diseases and injuries due to chemicals contains a number of important rules, which, if transposed into eu law, will strengthen the existing legislation. i therefore voted in favour of the present motion for a resolution authorizing ratification of this convention.
in writing. − chemicals can be dangerous and pose a risk to public safety. to ensure the security of workers, the environment and society as a whole, i voted in favour of ratifying the convention concerning safety in the use of chemicals at work.
in writing. - the report by mr steinruck endorses the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interests of the union, the parts of convention no 170 on chemicals which fall within the union's competence. i have voted in favour of this convention, which i regard as an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole.
in writing. − i strongly support the conclusion of the protocol against illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, supplementing the united nations convention against transnational organized crime. this protocol will make it easier to prevent and combat illicit trafficking in firearms by better monitoring them through marking, through import and export licensing or authorisation, and by strengthening cooperation and the exchange of information between states parties.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the text and believe that increased cooperation between all states is essential to combat crime and arms trafficking effectively.
in writing. - it is today's news that the police in reggio calabria have uncovered a criminal gang, composed of italians, albanians and pakistanis, who used the proceeds of prostitution to buy weapons in slovakia, to be sold on the gioia tauro square. the case confirms how the arms trade is intertwined with all kinds of criminal enterprises, from mafia racketeering to human trafficking, from drug trafficking to industrial-scale drug manufacturing. the same traffic also supports warlords, piracy and criminal gangs who are taking up residence in the territories affected by the weakening of sovereignty. i'm thinking of the horn of africa or certain areas of southeast asia. the objectives of the arms trade treaty include the codification of strict standards for conventional arms in order to prevent and combat illicit trafficking in or diversion to the black market, in accordance with the principle of the responsibility of states, in relation to their international obligations, to regulate effectively international trade and to apply their control systems. i therefore find the report to be acceptable and timely and i shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i generally support measures which promote free trade in goods. whether this means increasing competition and allowing the consumer to have better quality at the same price, or a lower price at the same quality, or both, is easy to agree. if, on the other hand, the principle of free trade is to be used as an excuse to justify damage to the local economy (such as redundancies due to uncontrolled relocations), or to circumvent rules which, even before they are written, derive from common sense, then i believe it is my duty as a member of parliament and as a citizen to stand up for them. this general principle is the basis of my campaigns for product traceability, and it led me to vote in favour of this proposal: the more traceable firearms are, the greater the chances of tackling illicit manufacturing and trafficking. there is already too much violence in our cities, and whatever the cost of increased controls is certainly justified by the goal of saving lives and giving less leeway to those who misuse those weapons.
in writing. - i supported this report which stresses in particular the crucial importance of the exchange of information provided for in article 12 of the protocol: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in the future. it is essential to exchange information on criminal groups, their methods, means and routes used, illicit firearms, manufacturers, dealers, authorised importers and exporters and good practices in combating illicit production and trafficking. there are many control systems such as marking and the system of export or import authorization and licensing, but they are not really effective unless information is shared. we therefore strongly urge the member states to step up the exchange of information through the europol eis information system, which will allow the identification, sharing and cross-checking of some 20 data items, including those relating to illicit firearms.
in writing. − the united nations convention against transnational organized crime (untoc) was adopted in 2000 to fight better against transnational organised crime and trafficking in firearms. supplementing protocols to the convention established specific measures against trafficking in persons, smuggling of migrants and illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms. therefore, i voted in favour of the recommendations on the protocols in order to prevent trafficking in firearms and improve security for eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the protocol aims to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition by making it a criminal offence to commit illicit trafficking in firearms and ammunition and to falsify or abrasion the marking of weapons, as well as to attempt or facilitate such an offence, without prejudice to the various legal traditions of the contracting states. firearms must be marked by the contracting states at the time of manufacture, import or transfer to a given country in order to enable the manufacturer, the country and the year of import to be identified. the exchange of information between contracting states through a single point of contact will be important in order to strengthen the capacity of states to prevent, detect and investigate illicit trafficking in firearms. illicit firearms trafficking also benefits criminal groups and terrorists, providing them with another source of income and multiplying their destructive potential. the protocol will therefore make it possible to strengthen the security of european citizens without, however, harming the legal users of firearms.
in writing. − the united nations international convention against transnational organized crime, adopted in 2000, is the first global instrument to combat transnational organized crime and the trafficking of firearms. three protocols specify the convention by providing for specific measures to combat specific crimes. the protocols cover trafficking in human beings, smuggling of migrants and the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms respectively. the european community signed the convention and protocols against the smuggling of migrants and trafficking in persons on 12 december 2000 and the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms on 16 january 2002. the ratification of the latter protocol makes it possible to prevent and combat illicit trafficking in firearms more effectively, by better controlling weapons through their marking and import and export authorizations, and by strengthening cooperation and the exchange of information between the contracting states. this has paved the way for enhancing the safety of european citizens without harming the legal users of firearms.
in writing. - i voted against the scholz report on the eu-china agreement on the modification of the concessions of bulgaria and romania following their accession to the union. the trade attitude of this country towards the eu production system, its persistence in an unfair trade policy of social and environmental dumping is damaging to our farms and cannot be supported in any way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the people's republic of china on the settlement of certain trade issues related to the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu. the eu has also been involved in the negotiation of trade agreements with china, which are now incompatible with the rules of the common market. the eu-china agreement provides a solution to this, while also ensuring full compliance with the rules established by the world trade organisation in this regard.
in writing. − under wto rules, the european union is obliged to negotiate with wto members having negotiating rights in the schedules of any of the acceding members, i.e. bulgaria and romania. failure to reach an agreement might lead to china withdrawing equivalent concessions negotiated with the eu, a disastrous consequence which can be avoided. since many eu consumers depend on the prcʼs cheap and plentiful supply of goods, cooperation is more desirable than protectionist measures and trade wars, especially in the current context of the global economic slowdown. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the moreira report which analyses the second phase of the eu-us agreement to end the trade agreements put in place by the us with regard to many products originating mainly in italy.
in writing. − our objective and my personal concern, given the economic crisis, is to ensure that european operators can move freely and with the greatest possible freedom. a deadlock with the us would put the eu economy linked to this sector in difficulty. we're talking about sanctions on our products for nearly 120 million dollars a year. the question i ask myself is, can we afford it? the answer is obviously no. that is why i welcome the approval of the revision of the agreement. we must find a final solution to this dispute. in economics, uncertainty is the biggest penalty for economic operators. it is right to give them legal certainty to plan for the future.
in writing. the european union and the united states of america are locked in a long-running dispute over the eu's ban on hormone-treated beef. however, on 13 may 2009, the eu and the us signed a memorandum of understanding, paving the way for a final settlement of the so-called 'hormone beef dispute'. this amendment to the protocol is to be supported for three main reasons. first, if it is not amended by 1 february 2014, the current mou would be voided and the us would be able to re-impose sanctions on eu agricultural products worth usd 116.8 million annually. secondly, the protocol allows the union to maintain its ban on hormone-treated meat and meat products, despite having been found to be in breach of its wto obligations. thirdly, by supporting this agreement, the european parliament is sending an authoritative political signal to the united states at an important time for the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip).
in writing. − the eu and the us signed a memorandum of understanding in 2009 to negotiate a resolution on the dispute over hormone-treated beef. as the mutual obligations will expire on 1 february 2014 but a permanent settlement terminating the dispute has still not been reached, i voted in favour of the extension and revision of the memorandum and i urge that a final solution be negotiated.
in writing. the european union and the united states of america are locked in a long-running dispute over the eu's ban on hormone-treated beef. however, on 13 may 2009, the eu and the us signed a memorandum of understanding, paving the way for a final settlement of this dispute. a mutually acceptable solution allowed for a gradual suspension of retaliatory sanctions applied by the united states to certain european agricultural products in exchange for the opening of an autonomous tariff quota free of duties for high-quality non-hormone-treated beef. this was followed by the suspension of sanctions and the extension to 45 000 tonnes of the tariff quota for high-quality beef on the basis of the most-favoured-nation principle. that memorandum of understanding expired on 1 august 2013, but the reciprocal obligations remain valid until 1 february 2014. since the eu-us protocol is an international agreement, its amendment is subject to the approval of parliament, which, supporting the commission's proposal, decided to extend until 2015 the agreement on imports of certain hormone-free beef from the united states.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the cottigny report on the eu-ivory coast fisheries partnership agreement because i do not agree with the positions and conditions contained therein.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the approval of the new protocol to the eu-ivory coast fisheries agreement. as a study by a group of independent experts has shown, eu agreements with côte d'ivoire have consistently proved to be mutually beneficial and balanced in a variety of economic, environmental and social aspects. i see no reason to prevent the conclusion of this new agreement, which is in line with the previous ones.
in writing. − the european union and the republic of côte dʼivoire have formed relationships with regard to fishing since 1990. this report notes that since its inception, the agreement has been economically justified, reasonable, balanced and effective. partnership with côte dʼivoire is of great importance to eu citizens as almost the entire ivorian tuna production is exported to the european union. the partnership agreement provides for fishing opportunities allocated to two types of vessel, 28 freezer tuna seiners and 10 french and spanish surface longliners. i support negotiating renewal of the agreement and voted in favour of this protocol.
in writing. - the report by mr cottigny stresses that the agreement, from the outset, was based on sound political and economic motives. from a political point of view, for example, relations between the parties remained constant even during the recent government crisis that hit the african country. the european union and côte d'ivoire have long been privileged partners in trade, particularly in fisheries: the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the advisory committee on fisheries,
in writing. the adrover report analyses the possibility of extending the granting of reduced duties on fisheries in the canary islands. as the report is unclear and does not specify whether and to what extent this would cause damage to spanish fishermen, i have abstained in this vote.
in writing. − the canary islands form one of the most remote regions of the european union; the geographical constraints impose additional costs on certain fishery products which are essential to domestic consumption. to address this problem, the european union has reduced common custom tariff duties on imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands since 1991. i support extending the existing duty-free tariff quotas on imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands for the period 2014-2020, for the welfare of the residents, and i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - the report by mr mato adrover, taking into account the consultation with stakeholders, as well as the formal request submitted by the spanish authorities, suggests extending the validity of the same tariff quotas free of duties on imports of certain fishery products in the canary islands for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. - i support the escobar report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the 3 719 redundancies at nokia. the text provides for the allocation of eur 9 810 000 from the egf, the purpose of which is to reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the globalisation process taking place on world markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund for finland for nokia employees. the reason for the crisis is linked to the relocation of the assembly service to asia, while the manufacture of components and production had already been relocated outside europe. telecommunications deserve european support because of the importance of the ict and innovation sectors in the relaunch of the european market. but european solidarity is not enough. these cases should make us reflect on the adequacy of national and european economic policies in the changing context of the global market.
in writing. − nokia is a major european company, a protagonist of the technological revolution. it is more than ever symbolic that today we are dealing with the nokia crisis and this is the fourth time that we have mobilised the fund for the workers of this company in five years. our companies are in crisis because we're missing the big challenge of globalization. the fund we are talking about, at a time of deep economic crisis, is a small breath of fresh air for those who have to deal with the harsh reality of unemployment. data on the reintegration of those who have used these resources into the labour market tell us that 48% of workers have found a job again. the fund has been used in recent months to help the employees of many companies in difficulty in several european countries, including my own, italy. it's a relief, of course. it is urgently necessary to start thinking seriously about the structural reforms that must be implemented to stop this bleeding out of jobs once and for all. we're losing industries, market share and gdp. it is time to take a fresh leap forward by putting in place concrete measures to give workers answers in a timely and reasonable manner.
in writing. − the finnish authorities have applied for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support redundancies by nokia and its subcontractors, involving approximately 7 700 people. nokia and nokia siemens networks together accounted for about one fifth of all jobs in the finnish ict sector. since the application met the requirements for mobilisation of the fund, i voted to approve this, to support the reintegration of disadvantaged workers into the labour market.
in writing. - the request by mr naranjo escobar, for which i voted in favour, is the ninth under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of the egf to the tune of some eur 9 million for finland. specifically, the request concerns 4 500 redundancies at nokia and some of its suppliers and subcontractors during the reference period from 1 august 2012 to 30 november 2012, with approximately 3 700 workers affected by the measures co-financed by the egf.
in writing. the ppe voted in favour of the neynsky report. the commission proposes to mobilise a fund for a total amount of approximately eur 2.3 million: the committee on budgets supports the commission's proposal also in the light of the positive opinion expressed by the empl committee. the neynsky report points out that the cash-in workers at first solar manufacturing gmbh led to an immediate increase of 4 percentage points in the unemployment rate and that the area concerned (brandenburg) is already experiencing an above average average unemployment rate. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. the neynsky report calls for all necessary efforts to be made to speed up the mobilisation of this fund and welcomes the improvement in the commission's procedures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the neynsky report. the text identifies in a relevant and timely manner the actions on which it is necessary to invest urgently to re-skill workers who are currently unemployed following the crisis affecting first solar in germany. i therefore support the mobilisation of the egf and the allocation of eur 2 305 357 to help workers in difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund for germany for the workers of first solar manufacturing gmbh. this important economic entity has revised its industrial expansion plans in germany due to the market changes in solar modules. european solidarity is important but not sufficient. these cases should make us reflect on the adequacy of national and european economic policies in the changing context of the global market.
in writing. − the german authorities applied for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to deal with the sudden critical structural changes in the market which forced first solar manufacturing gmbh to re-evaluate its investments in germany and to take the decision to stop any further expansion and close its plants. since the application met the requirements for mobilisation of this fund, i voted to approve it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr kozłowski on the request for the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of approximately eur 6 million for denmark. these are 611 redundancies in the vestas group, with as many workers affected by measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period, which is 18 september 2012 to 18 december 2012.
in writing. the epp voted in favour of the kozłowski report. the commission proposes to mobilise a fund for a total amount of approximately eur 9.8 million: the committee on budgets supports the commission's proposal also in the light of the positive opinion expressed by the empl committee. the kozłowski report points out that the problems identified at vestas group are due to major structural changes in global business models for the production and installation of wind turbines, to the improvement of the asian market with more competitive manufacturing prices. the kozłowski report calls for all necessary efforts to be made to speed up the mobilisation of this fund and welcomes the improvement in the commission's procedures.
in writing. - i supported the kozłowski report. the text identifies in a relevant and timely manner the actions on which it is necessary to invest urgently to re-skill workers who are now unemployed as a result of the crisis affecting vestas in denmark. i therefore support the mobilisation of the egf and the allocation of eur 6 364 643 to help workers in difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund for denmark for the employees of vestas. this major economic entity producing wind turbines has been severely affected by major structural changes in world trade which have reduced the eu's market share. european solidarity is important, but it is not enough. these cases should make us reflect on the adequacy of national and european economic policies in the changing context of the global market.
in writing. − the danish authorities applied to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide support for individual workers made redundant in the wind turbine manufacturing industry, affected by changes in world trade patterns leading to a significant reduction in the eu market share. the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support reintegration in the labour market. the application met the standards for mobilising this fund, therefore i voted to approve it.
in writing. - we can support the report of the european union or its agenda for the day by always giving our support. the lisbon treaty is the foundation of the union. the roma have been, for centuries, the largest minority in europe, and have had a major impact on european culture, including their access to eu borders. i'm not sure, but i'm sure it's a good idea. the commission has also been active in the fight against discrimination, particularly in the area of equal opportunities. croatia is one of the first countries to adopt a national strategy for the inclusion of roma in the eu before formal accession. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy on the roma dimension in the context of the european union strategy on the roma dimension. the european union's roma in the 21st century need to be given a chance to express their exceptional artistic talents and their problems in their lives.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution which recommends to the council, the commission and the european external action service that the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement (spa) be concluded swiftly. relations between the eu and canada are built on shared interests and values. the spa currently under negotiation will update and revitalise this relationship. most of all, the spa, while codifying canada as a strategic partner, will contribute considerably to the deepening of political, economic and cultural relations.
in writing. - the epp voted in favour of the jeggle report. the vote was based on a broad consensus reached during the committee vote for which several amendments had been prepared (and subsequently adopted). the favourable position reflects the desire to strengthen bilateral economic, cultural and political relations with canada in order to consolidate mutual commitment to this end. the report by mrs jeggle stresses the complementarity of the strategic partnership agreement (spa) and the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta).
in writing. − the text of the jeggle report, which analyses the negotiation phase of the eu-canada strategic partnership, is well thought out and articulated; that is why i have decided to support him with my vote.
in writing. the agreement reached in october on the free trade agreement with canada is an important historic achievement, offering major benefits and concrete opportunities for businesses and consumers. this is the starting point for the union to further deepen and intensify cooperation with canada, so that these benefits and opportunities can be multiplied and strengthened in the medium to long term. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution calling on the relevant european institutions to make all the progress necessary to conclude swiftly with ottawa the strategic partnership agreement currently being negotiated.
in writing. the report concerns the eu-canada political agreement. the partnership aims to tackle three specific problems: the eu-canada call to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; resolve the issue of the arctic council which, with the support of canada, has assigned the eu a role of observer only (and not a member of the forum); the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's citizens are not subject to the same restrictions as the citizens of the other member states. in view of the issues raised and the problems to be solved, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. − the european union and canada have a long history of cooperation in many fields; the comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the strategic partnership agreement under negotiation are of critical strategic importance and will enhance the relationship between the eu and canada. i supported submitting these recommendations on negotiations to my colleagues in the council and the commission.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals for the future. the report highlights that there are many non-bank financial institutions, such as insurance companies, which are significantly affected by economic and financial crises. in this respect, greater international cooperation is desirable.
in writing. - i found the positions expressed in the swinburne report, which analyses some ways of resolving crises for financial institutions other than banks, to be compatible with my own view, and therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the economic crisis we are experiencing, which originated in the financial system but has now spread to all other sectors, shows that it is not only those who are wrong who pay, but rather: in proportion to the mistakes made, those who make mistakes pay less than everyone else. it is therefore essential to ensure that the various links linking financial institutions to the real economy are able to be immune to crises and that the mechanisms for the propagation of errors are mitigated and do not produce the perverse effects that we see today in terms of closing credit and consequently blocking new projects to fill the holes created by the mistakes of the past. that is why i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. − i supported this report which calls on the commission to give priority to the recovery and resolution of ccps and dcts exposed to credit risk by making appropriate differentiations according to types when assessing whether to regulate other financial institutions in a similar way, giving due consideration to those potentially capable of generating systemic risks to the economy.
in writing. - the current crisis has been tangible proof that not only banks but also other financial institutions can be systemic and can cause instability in markets. in the context of the construction of the banking union and in particular the single resolution mechanism, it is necessary to take account of these entities as well. the european union must be able to deal with financial market crises in a decisive manner, without creating instability and panic. a clear framework with precise rules indicating the actions to be taken in the event of the reorganization or resolution of a bank or any other financial institution is needed. that is why i voted in favour of mr swinburne's report.
in writing. − central counterparties (ccps) stand between two counterparties to manage the risk of default by one counterparty. ccps exposed to serious credit risk need to be concerned. it is important to ensure that all ccps have a default management strategy for all products, this being essential for the sustainable growth of the financial sector. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − although the space industry is undoubtedly a niche sector, it generates a considerable turnover of over eur 6.5 billion per year. in addition to the sectors directly concerned by space, there are others which benefit greatly from its technical achievements. in order to compete in this field with countries such as the united states, which is the world's leading country in this field, or with countries such as china or india which are making great strides forward, it is important that europe devotes more attention and more funds to the space sector. i therefore support mrs niebler's report, since the space industry is an important resource to invest in, to make progress and to create more jobs, in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the european economy is taking a leading position in satellite communications services. despite being a niche industry, the space industry is able to generate an annual turnover of well over eur 6.5 billion. at the same time, countless services depend directly or indirectly on space technologies. the european parliament has always supported an ambitious european space policy, but in my view, in the light of the recent communication from the european commission on this subject, greater coordination between the space activities of the union, esa and the member states is essential in order to avoid duplication of services. in my view, the european union needs a genuine internal market for the space industry with a coherent and well-defined legal framework within the member states. i believe that the space industry offers considerable potential in terms of generating growth and creating jobs. the european economy, with the support of european policy, needs to focus on those sectors which already offer significant potential for growth and employment, and these include satellite communications in general and the european satellite navigation programme galileo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the niebler report on the eu's industrial space policy. i think that the investment plan and the institutional commitments envisaged in this area are essential and will be of particular benefit to small and mediumsized enterprises active in the space industry.
in writing. - the report highlights the pervasive impact of the space industry on our economies, from strategic autonomy to communications security, to employment resulting from the european technological advantage, and deserves a favourable vote. we are faced with a problem of competitiveness and numbers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. for example, according to a report by the house of commons, the uk remains the european leader in market shares in the sector. italy, with 200 industries and some 3 5000 employees, is a third country in terms of contribution to esa, and is an important but not global player. the european union is a global leader, surpassing the united states. i particularly agree with the points made in paragraphs 2, 6, 9, 11, 12, 35, 24 and 25, which develop a strategy for european integration aimed at global competitiveness. finally, i would point out that industry analysts see significant opportunities in the aerospace services sector, which is being targeted by indian and chinese companies. i hope that coordinated integration strategies will be able to use the skills of our industries to maintain a european advantage on those markets too.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it provides for measures to maintain the competitiveness of the european space industry at a high level worldwide. the european space sector is increasingly under pressure from the industries of emerging space powers such as india and china. the report therefore aims to unlock the considerable potential for generating economic growth and job creation inherent in the sector by encouraging a concentration of investment in those areas where there is already considerable potential for development and innovation. i believe that the european satellite navigation programme galileo, the copernicus earth monitoring programme (gmes) and satellite communication in general are key among them. i also believe that there is a need for greater coordination between the space activities of the eu, esa and the member states in order to avoid unnecessary and costly overlaps. the proposal also lays the foundations for the creation of an internal market for the space industry with a coherent legal framework, one of the major challenges for the future.
in writing. − space policy is one of the areas where the eu has to decide what it wants to do when it grows up: we are competing with the big global players (not just the us, but also india and china) but we have less budget and less scope because we have excluded military applications, we aim for sustainable development based on commercial uses but in the meantime we fail to complete the investments that then allow us to sell services, and in the end we risk burning resources without ever seeing the returns. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the setting up of a european network of regional authorities, the setting up of a european network of regional authorities, and the setting up of a european network of regional authorities. i think the rapporteur has done a very good job and i congratulate her on the ability to incorporate in her own-initiative report the views of the various political groups and committees which have given their opinions.
in writing. - do we want to be the protagonists or are we content with a role to be played? given the potential of the european union in this field, it would be a pity to give up our space. we are talking about a growth engine worth €6.5 billion a year and with important opportunities in terms of generating growth and creating jobs. however, we have not yet succeeded in imposing ourselves as we could have. more coordination is needed between the space activities of the eu, esa and the member states to avoid duplication. i mean, join forces and focus on what we do well. the european economy should focus on those sectors which already offer significant potential for growth and employment: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the european satellite navigation programme galileo, the copernicus earth monitoring programme (gmes) and satellite communications in general.
in writing. − there are currently 35 000 highly skilled workers employed in the space industry, which generates an annual turnover of more than eur 6.5 billion. though not directly consumed by citizens, space has become a driving force behind growth and innovation. many non-space industries derive benefit from the technological advances of the space industry, such as satellite communication services. as the us, russia and china have increased their spending and activities on space industry, europe needs to increase cooperation and strengthen peaceful cooperation in space with third countries. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the space industry offers considerable potential for growth and job creation, as well as for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the achievement of these objectives requires enhanced coordination between the space activities of the european union, esa and the member states, in order to avoid unnecessary duplication and to join forces. it should also be borne in mind that the european union needs a real internal market for the space industry, with a coherent legal framework, which will enable it to meet the challenges of the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the del castillo vera report on cloud computing. i found the text well thought out and shareable and i believe that the potential in this area must be exploited because it will make it possible to strengthen the competitiveness of european smes in the challenges of the global market.
in writing. - i agree with the principles and the structure of the report, with particular reference to recital w and paragraph 31, and i shall vote in favour. cloud computing is booming . the politecnico di milano observatory has estimated a 300 percent growth in users, which could exceed two billion by 2020. the benefits to businesses and to the growth of economies more generally are highlighted in the report and take various forms, from continuity to ease of access, from reduction of operating costs to energy savings. this technology is particularly useful for start-ups and smes, which are characteristic of the union economies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the rapporteur rightly insists on these issues (recitals g to l and paragraphs 9, 20, 59, 63 and 70) by pointing out the risks both in terms of the creation of lock-in monopolies and in terms of illegal surveillance and espionage, which is widely reported in the press but whose real dimensions are unclear.
in writing. - never fear innovation, never try to block it. thousands of years of history have taught us that scientific research and innovation can be directed, encouraged, channelled but never curbed or blocked, because sooner or later their power overwhelms everything and the first to suffer are those who were committed to opposing them. this owninitiative report goes exactly in this direction: it is trying to put a stop to this very recent innovation, to better exploit its potential without being damaged by the lack of rules. the measures decided, although not binding for the time being, rightly draw the attention of the european commission to the unintended consequences, in particular for privacy and user protection. these are standards that industry can and must converge on.
in writing. - we cannot be blind to strategic areas such as this: europe should stimulate research and technological development in the field of cloud computing. the development of the cloud in europe has tremendous potential, not only as an accelerator for the completion of the digital single market but also, and above all, to improve the competitiveness of our smes and to create new jobs. we must not forget that the issue of data security and data protection is not just a matter of concern to our citizens, but a real and concrete issue. i therefore agree with the rapporteur, mrs pilar del castillo: we need tougher rules. access to cloud computing should not be by default, and the terms should be clear and secure.
in writing. - nothing more concrete today is represented by cloud computing, if i may use the apparent oxymoron. cloud computing can be the future of our computing habits, the creation of many jobs and the modernisation of businesses and public administrations, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. − the need to implement a strategy to exploit the potential of cloud computing is justified by the benefits in terms of employment and economic growth. its wider application and dissemination would reduce costs for public administrations and ensure more efficient services to citizens. we all agree on the benefits of this application, but we should focus on the legal aspects of data privacy and security, which are the real obstacle to be overcome before it is more widely used. in the light of recent developments in data protection, the commission should present a legislative proposal as soon as possible to protect users from the risk of a breach of their personal data.
in writing. − businesses around the world are discovering the productivity benefits they can achieve by simply accessing better performing business applications and/or dramatically increasing their infrastructure resources at affordable costs. the economic and commercial prospects of the cloud are indeed promising and there are consequently commercial arguments in favour of its development, the full development of cloud computing is of strategic importance for the completion of the digital single market. in this sense, the cloud strategy touches on many aspects that influence the need for greater convergence and, over time, harmonisation, in order to remove all existing barriers, for example in the following areas: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the provision of services by the public authorities. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the development of cloud computing is of strategic importance for the completion of the digital single market in europe. cloud strategies themselves cover many aspects that influence the need for greater convergence and, over time, harmonisation, in order to remove all existing barriers in terms of broadband, spectrum allocation, consumer protection and intellectual property rights, data protection, product-specific regulations, payment transactions. for these reasons i voted in favour of mrs pilar del castillo's text.
in writing. - although the sedó i alabart report, which assesses the work of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec), is a text whose approach could initially be shared and positive, i decided to abstain because the risk that it would open the way to a further increase in waste of public resources is real.
in writing. − the report reveals a shared measured approach and offers different options for the future of berec. i therefore vote in favour. i do not think that the independence of berec from the commission is in question: it is a fact that on many occasions (for example, on the question of the pricing of the so-called 'last mile') it has actually confirmed the decisions of the national authorities which are at odds with the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is no secret that many people have read this way, for example, in the negative opinion of berec on the proposal for a regulation on the single telecommunications market. i think the report provides useful guidance on this, particularly when it proposes in paragraph 13 that the ep should be the focal point of the berec dialogue, a solution which would ensure transparency, accountability and equal representation of the interests at stake. this would give greater political authority and legitimacy to the necessary strategy of convergence and regulatory alignment of the internal market for electronic communications.
in writing. - i believe that berec is one of the best examples of a european authority for the regulation of a specific sector: considering that it has only been fully operational since 2010, it has been designed with great care both in terms of governance and the tasks and functions assigned. it is no coincidence that when i proposed my amendments to the general data protection regulation, i had exactly this model in mind for the european authority which was to coordinate the national authorities. this does not mean that there are still areas for improvement, and my colleague mr sedó i alabart, with the help of the study prepared by a well-known consultancy firm, was able to identify some weak points. past success is not a reason to rest on our laurels, and it is right to strive to improve. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) was created to help with shaping technical and policy orientations for the functioning of the internal market. berec is currently playing its role effectively. however, the independence and accountability of berec and the berec office could still be improved. i agreed generally with the rapporteur and voted in favour of this evaluation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have approved the reform of the common fisheries policy, after ten years, and it was delayed because the previous policy did not work. let's hope this works. we put our best foot forward. for the first time there is a role for parliament in approving this reform, the previous ones were mediations between the states. i think we have enriched the reform, we have given it a soul, precisely because the commission's proposal was weak and gave no concrete content to regionalisation or to the possibilities of changing the conditions under which the sea is managed. i think parliament has done a very good job, in that it has created the conditions for the sea to become a container that must be helped to produce more. we cannot think of the sea as a mine or as a mine from which we simply extract, but we are going through the application of the reform and will be even more so with the approval of the european fisheries and maritime fund to a condition in which the sea becomes a great sea, a great field to be cultivated. i believe that this is the best message that parliament can give, since for the first time since the treaty of lisbon it is actually dealing with the management of this policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after a long period of negotiations, we have finally voted today on a compromise text which must satisfy our parliament, because it has succeeded in achieving a fisheries policy which is environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. a new approach that will finally tackle the main problem of fisheries, namely overfishing, and put an end to it by 2015. this is an indispensable condition which creates the conditions for the repopulation of our seas and at the same time a better respect for marine ecosystems, conditions which some consider restrictive, but which are the sine qua non for guaranteeing a future for our fishermen and the survival of our seas. i think it is important to pay more attention to small-scale coastal artisanal fishing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the maritime sector employs over five and a half million workers in the european union. this is enough to understand the strategic importance of this sector. perhaps more could be done in terms of the general budget, but once the european maritime and fisheries fund is approved there will be over six billion euros also to provide aid to young fishermen, for the renewal of fleets and marine engines. it is now important that this reform be translated into a real and measurable opportunity in terms of production and employment in the member states.
in writing. - i consider the rodust report on the common fisheries policy to be very balanced and well thought out and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - after months of negotiations and negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament finally reached agreement on the regulation on the common fisheries policy. parliament has succeeded in achieving a more balanced wording of the text, offering greater guarantees for the growth of fish stocks, to the benefit of the resources of the sea, but also of the fishing industry as a whole. for these reasons i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - we have achieved a result that is not to be taken for granted. the agreement reached at the negotiating stage largely satisfies the demands of the mediterranean countries, italy in particular. the new european policy has undoubtedly been made more appropriate to the particular realities of the fishing fleet operating in the mediterranean sea, i.e. in an environment and socioeconomic context totally different from that of the north seas or other marine areas where fish stocks and harvesting techniques are markedly different. it is important to stress to our fishermen that the temporary cessation of fishing activities has been included in the list of technical measures considered to be valid for the adequate protection of fishery resources. this allows us to confirm the measure of the temporary cessation of fishing, with some 8 million euro a year of community co-financing, to compensate the income of the owners of 2,500 italian trawlers.
in writing. - with this vote, the reform of the common fisheries policy becomes a reality, finally taking serious countermeasures against intensive fishing which is threatening to irreparably damage our seas. from 2014 we will finally be able to enjoy the result of negotiating fishing quotas that, first of all, achieve the objective of sustainability.
in writing. the text analyses in detail the recommendation on the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products and the amendments to be made to the existing regulations. as i share the views expressed in this report, i have decided to support it with my vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have lost an opportunity with this vote today. the way we have come to approve this report is a way of burying it, it will not be discussed again. the lobbies that have tried to create the absence of debate in parliament and, above all, the absence of debate in the council have won. it is a very serious matter that this report has been on the council's table for 18 months. there have been three successive presidencies, the irish, the cypriot and the lithuanian: no one opened this report. parliament has sought mediation, perhaps even reached a plausible mediation, but the final vote on the fact that it did not want to leave the procedure open has closed the doors permanently so that this report can have its effect during this legislature. it is a sign of parliament's weakness, not of its strength at all. we should have the courage to tell the council to deal with that dossier and to bring it quickly to the house, but that will be impossible.
in writing. - we have approved this proposal for a regulation, fully supporting the commission's proposal to define the rules and specificities of deep-sea fishing, with the dual aim of identifying and protecting the most vulnerable ecosystems and preventing the use of the most harmful fishing systems, which lead to high rates of bycatch. a regulation needed to stop the depletion of deep-sea fish stocks.
in writing. - i found the arsenis report very balanced and very agreeable. i believe that regulation of deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic is of fundamental importance: the legislative vacuum that has been perpetuated to date has led to a dangerous depletion of fish stocks. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. − the negative impacts of trawling on vulnerable ecosystems such as deep water are incalculable: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species. marine resources are becoming increasingly scarce and need careful management to continue to benefit from the food, economic and social contribution they provide. it is our task to stop destructive fishing practices, also remembering that marine ecosystems are interconnected, the negative impacts suffered by one ecosystem inevitably spill over to neighbouring ones. trawling also has a strong impact on local fishing communities. protecting the biodiversity of our marine ecosystems by promoting sustainable fishing and curbing destructive fishing practices means promoting a social, economic and anthropological process and combining the needs of economic development with those of environmental protection. this vote must be the catalyst for a new policy for sustainable fishing, which can contribute to the social, economic and cultural fabric of coastal communities, without impoverishing our invaluable biodiversity.
in writing. i believe that the draft resolution on the regulation of deep-sea fishing in the north-west atlantic - which is being put to the vote in parliament today after more than a year of negotiations between the various political groups - contains a number of important measures to ensure that this type of fishing is regulated more strictly. the union's regulatory intervention is aimed at eliminating potential negative impacts on vulnerable ecosystems and, moreover, provides for an obligation to periodically assess the effectiveness of those provisions. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is regularly hit by major natural disasters: floods, floods and forest fires. community cooperation in the field of civil protection is therefore essential. the union mechanism is indeed a major step forward in civil protection cooperation and will support, coordinate and complement member states' actions for more effective and timely prevention and immediate response in the event of disasters. i believe, however, that it is essential to complete the measures against hydrogeological risks by revising the stability pact, in order to remove from the parameters and constraints of the pact all measures aimed at soil protection and the safety of schools and public buildings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are seeing more and more emergencies and today's vote on the union's civil protection mechanism is an important vote, which in some way redeems the eyes of the european citizens of the union's institutions in relation to so many decisions taken that do not appear to be in the interests of the citizens. this is because it meets the need for solidarity which was one of the main pillars and driving forces behind the birth of the european union. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a high-quality document, which takes account of the need for prevention in particular and of the european union's response in this area. the amendments it proposes introduce simplified rules and procedures for the activation of the mechanism and enhance the effectiveness, efficiency and coherence of the eu's response to disasters. the increased involvement of regions, cities and local communities in their key role in prevention and emergency response, as well as the evidence provided by the specific needs of the outermost regions, sea basins, islands, mountainous, isolated and inaccessible regions, should not be underestimated.
in writing. - following the recent tragedies that also affected italy, the new european union civil protection mechanism is a tool that finally addresses the prevention of risks and the reduction of the effects produced by natural disasters with an integrated and system approach. it has been estimated that, in the last 20 years alone, natural disasters have killed around 90,000 people in europe and caused damage worth €211 billion. these are impressive figures and they require strong and concrete responses. risk analysis, risk assessment, prevention and immediate response capability are the priorities of the new civil protection mechanism in order to reduce the impact of natural disasters both in terms of loss of life and public resources to be allocated to the recovery of affected areas. this is an important step forward, but it should be accompanied by another measure, which is even more urgent at the moment, namely the revision of the stability pact in order to remove from the parameters and constraints of the pact all interventions, carried out mainly by local authorities, aimed at soil protection and the safety of schools and public buildings.
in writing. − i supported this text because i believe that the preparation of the new multiannual financial framework is a good moment to revise the existing legal framework of union civil protection. the number and gravity of natural and man-made disasters increased significantly in the past years, and climate change is expected to trigger even more extreme disasters in the future. for this reason cooperation needs to be strengthened between the eu and member states in order to increase their effectiveness, in terms of prevention, preparedness and response in the event of disasters – both inside and outside the eu.
in writing. − in recent years there has been a significant increase in both the number and severity of natural and/or man-made disasters. even more extreme disasters are expected in the future, mainly due to climate change. while welcoming the commission's proposal to establish a union civil protection mechanism, i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to introduce some amendments to strengthen the legislative proposal and to create the conditions for the establishment of a union civil protection mechanism which is more reliable than in the recent past. member states in the same region are exposed to the risk of disasters of a similar nature. despite existing bilateral and regional agreements, the union civil protection mechanism should further promote regional cooperation in terms of sharing of knowledge, best practices and training programmes. finally, i believe that the resources financed by the union and the european emergency response mechanism in the form of a voluntary pool are fundamental steps towards a better and more reliable european disaster response system. however, for the better functioning of the pool, the european commission should define not only quality criteria but also interoperability criteria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal by mrs gardini because it is necessary to revise the community system of civil protection, given the importance it plays in dealing with the effects of natural disasters, which have been increasing in recent years, also and especially because of climate change. the lisbon treaty introduced a new legal basis for civil protection, but the concept of civil protection activity itself was not defined either in the treaty itself or in the legislative proposal. the resolution welcomes the commission's proposal for a uniform civil protection mechanism, but adds some useful elements to it in order to create a more reliable mechanism that meets the needs of the present day.
in writing. - i believe it is essential to safeguard the prerogatives and competences of the member states, in particular as regards risk management, modules and the european emergency response system, and for these reasons i supported the text with my vote.
in writing. − in may this year, oxford university press published an interesting comparative study on the economic impact of natural disasters, which looks at the case of six countries, identifying the characteristics of responses in different societies and economic systems. although the scientific literature on this subject is now substantial, we still have few certainties: however, we know that natural disasters cause significant declines in per capita output in the immediate term, but that in the medium term they can lead to significant improvements in response and even trigger economic recovery (see the interesting 2011 paper by the universities of tokyo and rieti). it is not surprising that both member states in a bilateral logic and individual private companies managing services of public importance (from energy to transport) have long since adopted transnational operational protocols for disaster management. the report identifies a central union mechanism which should generate an efficiency multiplier, while ensuring flexibility for states to fulfil their duties to protect the security of citizens. it will be important to build on the experience already gained at regional level and above all to work towards empowering the populations concerned, which can make the difference in terms of timeliness and lives saved. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. the improvement of the civil protection mechanism is an important objective because it gives concrete expression to solidarity in times of greatest need and thus in disasters and emergencies in the member states and other third countries. it is also an open instrument for other non-eu countries and therefore allows other national realities to be involved. strengthening the union's coordination in this field and allocating substantial financial resources seems to be a choice that deserves our support. analysis, risk assessment, prevention and immediate response capability are the priorities in order to reduce the impact of natural disasters both in terms of loss of life and public resources to be allocated to the recovery of the affected territories.
in writing. − i find the idea of establishing a common european mechanism that can support, coordinate and integrate member states' actions in the field of civil protection, improving the effectiveness of systems for preventing, preparing for and responding to natural disasters, interesting and useful. in recent years, unfortunately, we have seen a continuous escalation of phenomena which have required the rapid intervention of the civil protection forces; there have often been cases where organisations from different countries have collaborated, both because of the cross-border nature of these events and because in some cases, such as devastating earthquakes, the impact has been so substantial that external collaboration is also required. but of course we must also, and above all, focus on prevention, because this is essential if we want to limit the tragic effects of a natural disaster: it is perhaps in this field that close and coordinated european cooperation can prove useful, allowing comparison and mutual exchange between the different specialisations in the field.
in writing. − civil protection in the union is currently governed by the community civil protection mechanism and financial instrument covering the period 2013–2020. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the legal framework needs to be revised to tackle better humanitarian crises and strengthen the link between emergency measures, rehabilitation and development with humanitarian and development operators. i therefore voted for this proposal and the corresponding amendments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr gardini's text, which sets out the new rules for the union's civil protection mechanism to coordinate responses to natural and man-made disasters such as earthquakes, fires or leaks of harmful substances. member states will be able to respond to disasters jointly and share all preventive information on risk assessment. the proposal provides for more funding and simplifies the procedure for pooling resources such as rescue teams and aircraft, thus making it easier to respond to disasters outside the eu.
in writing. - i voted against this legislative proposal together with my colleagues from the forza italia delegation and fortunately we were able to get the majority of members to vote against this text, which would be reductive to call bad. not only did it contain proposals that are aberrant to those like me who seek to defend and protect christian values, but it also had a clear message against the family and against life. values which i consider to be unquestionable and untouchable.
in writing. - i agree with the sánchez report the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is informed of the risks involved in the purchase of a home. that is why i wanted to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted to postpone the final decision on this very delicate proposal for a directive. we cannot afford to make hasty mistakes when the protection of mortgage claimants is at stake. in particular, at this time of tight credit, the competent institutions must protect the rights of those who want to take risks and to do so need loans. i am in favour of the whole proposal. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. however, the internal market aspect cannot be underestimated. i therefore asked for a little more time so that we could also reach agreement on the comparative tables.
in writing. − the 2008 financial crisis was triggered by the bursting of a housing bubble in the us, where mortgages were granted without much control and consumers were encouraged to take excessive risks. this directive has improved the regulation of the european credit market. this is the first step towards a european mortgage market. after two years of lengthy negotiations, the european parliament has reached an agreement that protects consumers without overburdening the banking system. the rules of conduct and transparency have been increased without entailing an increase in costs. a general ban on tied sales practices has been introduced. finally, rules have been introduced on variable rate lending and foreign currency lending, and the basis has been laid for more flexible and reliable credit markets.
in writing. - the report by mr sánchez presedo deals with the conditions applicable to creditors and credit intermediaries, the competent authorities and the supervisory requirements. these need to be strengthened in a consistent manner through the new european supervisory architecture. the proposal also contains provisions on information and practices prior to the conclusion of the credit agreement, the annual percentage rate of charge, the assessment of creditworthiness, access to databases, advice and early repayment.
in writing. i voted against the murphy report on the import of rice from bangladesh into europe at reduced rates of duty. it is clear that such action would distort the internal market and hit our producers hard.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because of its approach which, while it was motivated by environmental considerations which were partly to be shared, was also likely to cause further problems for the manufacturing sector in terms of energy supply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. that is why i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. - the european union is clearly ahead of other global players of comparable size in environmental policy. the degree of development of the emissions market is only an indicator. however, proposing to withdraw securities in order to artificially increase the price is a controversial operation for two reasons: the first is that it is built on a shaky foundation, because it cannot reasonably be assumed that there is a surplus of supply right now that, because of the crisis, polluting companies have less work and therefore produce less energy and therefore pollute less. the second is that, precisely because we are in a time of crisis, it does not make much sense to add to the costs of european industries in general and italian industries in particular, which are already heavily burdened by an enormous taxation of labour compared to competitors and by a far higher cost of energy. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. - it is inconceivable, given the economic crisis still affecting the european economy, to think of an increase in energy prices. businesses and consumers cannot afford to be salted any further and this type of reasoning must therefore be stopped. this operation is bringing to its knees one of the sectors that is suffering most from the current economic situation. the paradox is that europe, as commissioner tajani has pointed out, is relying on manufacturing to revive the community economy. we must not, therefore, put ourselves in the way of european industrial ambitions. in this context, the short-term measure so passed with a split vote in parliament should not be seen as a solution to the current imbalances but rather as a way of ensuring the stability of the eu ets system until the necessary long-term structural measures are adopted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution for purely procedural reasons. i think it is appropriate to remind the council that the amendments to the waste directive which we could discuss cannot be made through the so-called comitology but must follow the procedure laid down for all other legislative acts. the european union is already doing a lot to recycle paper. this does not mean that we cannot do better, but we have an advantage (over 70% of paper is recycled). changing the criteria for defining recovered paper as 'waste' is a useful way to improve statistics, but should be discussed in the relevant bodies if changes are appropriate. the council recalls that the treaty of lisbon is now in force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the report because it is time to put an end to it, which is a waste of public money with zero results. there is still strong discrimination within the roma population, sometimes actual abuse of women, including forced marriages that violate women's fundamental rights, but above all 40 percent of roma children go to school, so 60 percent of roma children do not go to school because their parents force them to beg. that 's the main problem . without education, there is no respect for rights, no future, no social inclusion, no work. does the report call for more funding for programmes aimed at roma integration? i would say that we must first of all check what has happened to the resources already spent, already committed, we are talking about millions of euros. i therefore believe that a change of perspective is necessary, starting first of all with respect for the rules and laws, first of all with respect for compulsory education.
in writing. - i do not share the positions taken in this report, there have been countless initiatives and projects funded and enormous economic expenditure by the eu to try to integrate roma into the social fabric of the various states, the reality is that they do not want to integrate. europe should stop wasting resources in this way and focus on solving the problems affecting the rest of the social fabric which is too often forgotten.
in writing. - health, housing, employment and education, four sectors mentioned in the report, in which not only the roma find it difficult to fit in, because in this period of economic crisis our fellow citizens also have serious problems. how many entrepreneurs, in my country, fail and take their own lives or are unemployed without a salary and go to extremes! how many of my fellow citizens do not get treatment or do not pay rent or mortgage because they do not make it to the end of the month! how many roma have reached this point? no one, obviously, because they find a way to get by, always and in any case, and we know how, despite the widespread hypocrisy and blindness. why ask member states not to exert too disproportionate an influence with austerity measures only against the roma? how many women, not just roma, are victims of femicide? the press, at least the italian press, is sadly full of these stories, almost daily, unfortunately, and little is done! president. - ladies and gentlemen, at this stage we shall be discussing another minority to be protected from discrimination, poverty and unemployment: that native european!
in writing. - i believe that many of the serious problems affecting the roma community must be tackled by starting with women, who are too often victims of abuse and exploitation. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution because no form of violence or discrimination against women can be tolerated.
in writing. − roma women suffer extreme poverty and discrimination, and are exposed to a higher risk of trafficking, prostitution, domestic violence and exploitation. moreover, the literacy rate and educational outcome of roma women are significantly lower than those of roma men and non-roma women, and many roma girls leave school early or never attend. i agree with the rapporteur that measures need to be developed to protect roma women and to introduce a child poverty reduction target, as well as to identify and develop further priority actions in the field; i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it calls on the key international partners, especially the eu, to maintain their commitment to development, state-building and human security for all south-sudanese people. the newly created south sudan is one of the poorest countries in the world, with 50 % of the population living below the poverty line. also, having emerged from a war and being located in an unstable region, it is in danger of failing if the international community and local stakeholders fail to cooperate in developing a joint strategy to turn it into a democratic and inclusive state. this report calls therefore for a long-term perspective and solid and stable engagement by the international community.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain on the de keyser report on the development and state building of south sudan.
in writing. the future of the young state of south sudan - which has risen from the ashes of a bloody civil war that lasted almost 40 years - is still unknown. two years after independence, the region is still experiencing a situation of deep crisis and instability, mainly linked to the definition of the northern border and the sharing of oil revenues with sudan. thanks to the substantial humanitarian aid provided by the european union and the international community as a whole, important steps have been taken towards normalization. however, the country's state of ongoing political and humanitarian crisis reveals that there are still many challenges in this field. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to ensure that the union's aid is continued, possibly within the framework established by the cotonou agreements. i also share the need for the union institutions responsible for humanitarian aid policy to inform parliament in a timely manner of developments and achievements in this field.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because it is a priority to give the automobile industry a boost, both from the economic and from the employment point of view. the automobile industry generates 12 million direct and indirect jobs and contributes to 4% of european gdp, but in recent years this sector has been a struggling sector that has felt the weight of the crisis very much and that is why this action plan can provide an answer to revitalize the automobile industry. now, the role of parliament is very important. we must promote a more pragmatic approach and above all we need to be practical, because we must develop certain aspects of the report, trying to give the sector a boost, especially at european level. to respond to the competitiveness of the economy and, above all, to labour and employment in the face of foreign competition: these are the goals that i think we all need to focus on.
in writing. the european automotive industry is a strategic sector for the european union's economy and employment. the automobile industry in europe is experiencing an unprecedented crisis. in 2012, the union recorded only 12 million units sold compared to 17 million in 2007, i.e. before the economic and financial crisis, which was the lowest level of sales since 1995; at the beginning of 2013, the figures indicated a further decline. one of the reasons for this decline is certainly the sudden and lasting loss of purchasing power of european households. while welcoming the work done by the commission with its cars 2020 action plan and its intention to improve the position of the european automotive industry in terms of gdp by 2020, i believe that the scope of the action plan shows some weaknesses. in general, it merely takes stock of the overall situation in the sector and does not contain any proposals for the reforms needed to consolidate its industrial policy in the automobile sector at european level. in my view, the car industry is a pillar of our industrial economy and therefore deserves priority and rapid political action. the commission's commitment must be made as soon as possible at the operational level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this programme with my colleagues from the epp, because i believe that there is an urgent need for an organic plan for the revival of the motor industry, an industry which is strategic for the economy and employment in europe. moreover, it is a pillar of our economy, both symbolically and in real terms. however, to revive the sector, the very concept of citizen mobility must be re-examined and solutions must be found that are adapted to the needs of the times in which we live. at a time when the environmental factor is a major priority at the heart of car manufacturing, both in terms of vehicle emissions to air and in terms of consumption, given the constant rise in retail fuel prices.
in writing. - although the proust report contained an initially acceptable and positive approach, the version subsequently adopted in committee is distorted with many references to the need to focus more on the non-european market, for these reasons i did not support this report with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the cars2020 report provides an important action plan for a sustainable and increasingly competitive european automotive industry. the action plan identifies four main areas of action: the commission will continue to support the development of the european transport infrastructure, including the development of the european rail network, the development of the european rail network, the development of the european rail network, the development of the european rail network and the development of the european rail network. underlining the importance of innovation and technology in the automotive sector, the proposal provides for research and development to focus on a number of priorities, in particular cleaner cars, eco-innovation and international standards. the use of available financial means to stimulate investment in the sector, for example through tax incentives for smes as well as private and public financial instruments, should also be optimised and strengthened. finally, i believe it is important to simplify and rationalise the tax and bureaucratic burdens which have a dangerously negative impact on car production and trade.
in writing. − those interested in this industrial sector will recall the various phases it has gone through, from its beginnings not everywhere understood, to the war applications, to the emergence of national champions, to the present moment of total globalisation, for good (increase in the potential market) and for bad (fierce competition forcing them to be extremely surgical in reducing costs). given the employment impact of the choices made in this sector and its economic importance, it is right that policy should consider the conditions under which research, production and industry can continue to be based in our territory. the cars2020 action plan answers these questions. perhaps more could have been done, but i am not sure that it is the policy of the member states to take risks. what matters is that we move to provide a secure legal framework within which to make investments and take decisions that continue to be binding in the medium and long term. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the report stresses the decisive role that the automotive industry plays in determining the european economic trend. parliament welcomed the cars2020 strategy developed by the european commission, but at the same time called for a rapid start to the operational phase of the strategy. the european automobile industry has unfortunately been in a spiral of crisis for several years now, and i believe that this crisis must be tackled at national and european level in parallel. first of all, it is necessary to analyse the structural changes in demand (demographic, sociological, behavioural, economic and technical) in the face of overcapacity. the relationship with the non-european market is also crucial, given that the automotive industry makes a significant positive contribution to the eu's trade balance and that the export potential to emerging markets is important. on the other hand, foreign competition is driving us to encourage technological innovation and research. i appreciated the attention paid by the rapporteur to the workers in the sector, to their skills, which represent the real added value, and to the need to manage restructuring in a coherent way, accompanying the most affected regions in the stages of conversion.
in writing. − the automotive industry contributes 4 % of total eu gdp and provides 12 million direct and indirect jobs. however, the automotive industry was severely undermined by the financial crisis and car sales have fallen back to the level of 1990s, a fact that creates concern among european citizens. the eu should focus on technological development, especially on improving the commercial viability of alternative energy sources. as these important aspects are covered in the cars 2020 report, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal which could have led to a change in european legislation on abortion. the "relation estrela" put forward by the parliamentary committee on women's rights proposed that voluntary abortion be considered "accessible and legal for all" in all member states. in rejecting the report, the european parliament confirmed that 'reproductive rights and sexual education' are a matter for the member states. at present in europe several countries such as ireland and poland do not consider abortion as a right and consider it illegal. there are fundamental values on which no compromise is permitted and the right to life is one of them.
in writing. − i voted for this report and i regret that it was not adopted. we failed to guarantee european citizens the right to have responsible and safe sex. most of all, this parliament voted against the right to be informed and to have access to affordable methods and healthcare services that would enable women to go through pregnancy and childbirth and provide couples with healthy children. this is a lost opportunity and a bad sign of the direction in which this parliament is going.
in writing. - although it contained some provisions which could be shared, such as those relating to paternity leave and the condemnation of female genital mutilation, i am satisfied with the rejection of the report presented by mrs estrela, a report which would have aggressively sponsored abortion, assisted reproduction and compulsory sex education and gender theory courses from primary school, thus depriving families of all educational value and power. i am very pleased that a new proposal on this subject has been adopted by the epp. it is a text in defence of traditional roles and values and of the inalienable right to life and the family, the basic unit of our society. the new resolution provides that the formulation and implementation of policies on sexual and reproductive health and rights and on sex education in schools are the responsibility of the member states, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. with this vote, parliament has won a hard-fought battle in defence of life, the family and all those christian values which are at the basis of the common traditions of the member states of the european union.
in writing. the ep and the ecr's resolution is brief, but the only argument proposed is simple. it is time to stop using a parliamentary method to attack the essential values of our society: the equal dignity of every human being from conception, the family as the fundamental nucleus of the state, the freedom of education which is the primary responsibility of parents. the discussions taking place around the world on these issues are of extraordinary importance and, for this very reason, they must be addressed openly, in the appropriate places, without the obfuscation caused by the use of equivocal words and by the confusion between different topics to hide negative objectives with positive ones, unless then only the negative ones are claimed after the votes, to influence public opinion. as the european court of human rights has repeatedly held, states have a wide margin of appreciation with regard to the right to life of the unborn and the essence of the family. in addition, the principle of subsidiarity is regarded as fundamental in the treaties on which the european union is founded. there will be an opportunity for a serious cultural debate, respectful of the eu's competences, when the european citizens' initiative called 'one of us' comes to parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution proposed by the ppe and the ecr and i am very pleased with the result achieved which affirms a fundamental principle: the formulation and implementation of sexual health and rights policies, including sex education in schools, is a competence of the member states and not of the union. the principle of subsidiarity is not only a guarantee of the competences of the member states, but also a safeguard of the different national sensibilities linked to history, culture and traditions.
in writing. - with this vote we have avoided a dangerous drift of the european union towards a disregard for life and against the fundamental freedoms of individuals. i had already spoken about the text in october, and i pointed out some unacceptable passages, such as the condemnation of conscientious objection for doctors who oppose abortion or the possibility of assisted reproduction for single women or lesbians. many of us had asked for this text to be amended in committee, but a hard line was adopted, against the very regulation of the european parliament, which in fact obliged us to vote on virtually the same report again. i had tabled an alternative motion with other members of my group, but it was rejected. fortunately, at least the proposal of the popular and conservative groups, which reiterates the responsibility of the member states in this area, has been accepted, without the need for intervention by the european union, which nobody has ever asked for. this morning some of us who spoke on this subject were sharply criticised by colleagues who have no respect for the opinions of others, and all this is unacceptable, on this day, the day of remembrance of human rights.
in writing. - i supported the alternative resolution of my political group, the ppe, preferring it to that of the efd which totally repudiated the original resolution of my portuguese socialist colleague. amid the many conceptual errors and lexical distortions in the original text, i voted without delay for the 'yes' to life, for the 'no' to abortion, for the protection of the role of women and children, leaving it to the member states to decide on sex education programmes in schools from infancy, not so much because of bigotry or personal ideology as because the definition of school curricula simply falls within national competence and i would therefore have risked voting for a text based on a non-existent legal basis.
in writing. − the proposal seeks to improve sexual and reproductive rights, especially for vulnerable groups in europe. although it encourages the development of a reliable collection of necessary data on sexual and reproductive rights and calls for unwanted pregnancies to be reduced, i could not agree to the majority part of this proposal and had to vote against it.
in writing. - parliament has once again, as it has done in the past and on several occasions, opposed the attempt to correct such a controversial report. the two alternative resolutions to a text which this parliament had already frozen last october demonstrate the strong opposition to mr estrela's text. i want to stress that abortion must not be a method of contraception or a method of birth planning. this parliament must recognize the right to maternity and urge the member states to put in place effective instruments to overcome the reasons for terminating a pregnancy, while respecting the freedom of women. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of pregnant women, which will be presented to the council in the near future. it would be a grave mistake to forget, as we have done today, that one and a half million european citizens signed a petition in favour of the legal dignity and protection of embryos in 15 european countries, a tangible sign of the high level of attention paid to the question of life and abortion throughout europe.
in writing. − volunteering is an important aspect of active citizenship and democracy, helping to translate the values that underpin the eu, such as solidarity and non-discrimination, into concrete action. through its cross-cutting activities, it promotes civic participation of all generations, from the youngest to the oldest. the european year of volunteering 2011 has achieved its objectives by improving volunteering itself, raising awareness of its value and raising public awareness. despite the economic crisis affecting all sectors, volunteering activities have been carried out with commitment, passion and professionalism, involving 100 million european citizens. i therefore strongly supported the proposal by mr scurria, convinced that it is important to continue working in this direction, enhancing volunteering as a tool for social and cultural cohesion in the european union.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it calls on the commission to undertake a detailed analysis of national volunteering practices and traditions with a view to fostering a common european approach. the consolidation of a common european approach to volunteering will create more opportunities for young people’s mobility and employability by allowing them to acquire valuable skills. i believe that volunteering is a key facet of active citizenship and democracy, as well as of personal development. for this reason it is important to support the various forms of volunteering practised in the member states through national organisations and networks of associations operating at local level.
in writing. − volunteering is an important pillar of democratic societies; it is an expression of support for and active participation in social life. in 2011, the european initiative to establish a 'european year of volunteering' was welcomed by the member states in order to pay tribute to and promote the commitment of volunteers and the different organisations involved in volunteering in various capacities. the data collected on the development of voluntary activity in europe show that this initiative has been successful despite the fact that the recent economic and financial crisis has put a strain on activities which, by their nature, do not have an immediate economic interest as their objective. i believe it is important to continue working in this direction so that volunteering is not just a celebration of a year in a strategic sector of the union, but becomes in fact one of the main instruments of social and cultural cohesion in the european union. i agree with the rapporteur in calling the commission's attention to the need for a single point of contact as a permanent service responsible for volunteering policy and coordination between the services and the various institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal by mr scurria because, like him, i believe that volunteering is an important and fundamental pillar of our democratic societies. volunteering is an expression of commitment, support and active participation in community life. the impact of this on society is immediate and tangible, because it promotes solidarity between generations, contributes to an active ageing of the population and thus leads to effective social inclusion. volunteering is increasingly proving to be a school, an opportunity to acquire skills and experimental skills in the labour market.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the scurria report, which takes stock of the situation of volunteering and related activities in europe, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. volunteering needs to be promoted more and more to make our societies more supportive and inclusive. the provision of an ad hoc european year has been a very effective choice, which has been used as leverage in many member states which were not very active in supporting volunteering. it is important now to consolidate the experience gained and above all not to abandon this sector at a time of crisis such as the one we are going through. the added value of the many volunteers and their associations throughout europe deserves our support because it stimulates a culture of solidarity and help for those most in need. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to establish a single point of contact as a permanent service responsible for volunteering policy and coordination between the various services and institutions concerned.
in writing. − volunteering activities are an important resource for young people. they help to develop valuable skills which are essential for integration into the labour market. that is why i voted in favour of the scurria report, which proposes to redouble efforts to promote this type of activity. in particular, better coordination of member states' actions should be promoted to activate by 2018 structures for the recognition of 'non-formal' skills acquired through volunteering. i therefore welcome the work of my colleague, who has also highlighted another need for volunteering in europe: the aim of the programme is to simplify access to funding, particularly from the esf, but also from direct grant programmes for structures involved in voluntary activities. volunteering is a value which is at the heart of the social europe of tomorrow.
in writing. - i am particularly interested in this subject. i was born and raised in veneto, a region where one in five citizens volunteers, giving their free time to those who need it most, to the most disadvantaged people. it is a sign of civilization and one of the most beautiful features of living together. when you are in trouble, it is reassuring to know that you can always count on someone. european civil society is responding to the crisis thanks in part to this world, made up of people with big hearts and strong wills. the world of volunteering is therefore a strength of our society which must be implemented and coordinated from a european perspective. the data collected so far are showing how important it is to continue working in this direction so that volunteering is not just a celebration of a year in a strategic sector of the union. we must try to make it one of the main instruments of social and cultural cohesion in the european union.
in writing. - i am not the one who should be emphasising what is obvious to everyone, namely the extreme importance of volunteering in our societies. as this report rightly points out, volunteering, which is increasingly popular among young and old alike, actively promotes cultural identity and solidarity between generations, also contributing to active ageing and civic participation at all stages of life, improving the quality of life. normally, volunteering is closely linked to the realities in which it takes place on a daily basis, but this does not prevent there being a european dimension, which can be achieved through an exchange of good practices, but also by referring to specific shared programmes and tools. this is a huge social, but also economic, added value which is often not recognised as it deserves, and that is why institutionalisation measures should perhaps be envisaged, even if, by its very nature, volunteering is characterised by its spontaneous nature and could hardly be incorporated into predefined schemes and concepts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution: volunteering is an important pillar of our democratic and pluralistic societies. it is an expression of commitment, support and active participation in social life. volunteering includes all forms of non-profit-making activities: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the impact on society is immediate as it promotes solidarity between generations, contributes to active ageing and civic participation at all stages of life leading to effective social inclusion. i know something about volunteering, having lived through the tragedy of the earthquake in emilia romagna last year. the mobilization of teams of professionals and volunteers, whom we will never cease to thank, was effective and impressive, as was the solidarity that came from italy and from much of europe. i myself organized a benefit concert for earthquake victims, which raised the sum of 25,000 euros directly for the most needy families. in 2011, the initiative to establish a european year of volunteering was welcomed as a way to pay tribute to and promote the commitment of volunteers and the organisations that work with them.
in writing. − volunteer work has an immediate positive impact on society. in 2011, the european year of volunteering (eyv) was introduced to promote voluntary activities and organisations working with volunteers. i support the rapporteurʼs position and voted in favour of his report on encouraging volunteering.
in writing. − volunteering is one of the pillars of our society, as it promotes solidarity between generations and social inclusion through the concrete participation of citizens in the life of the country. in my report today, i would like to underline that, following the establishment of the european year of volunteering in 2011, which i strongly support, many countries have made significant efforts to improve and develop the sector and to raise public awareness of the importance of this activity. one of the most significant examples concerns the introduction of the european skills passport: a genuine official document, attesting to the skills and abilities of the individual volunteers. the economic crisis has certainly put a strain on this type of activity, which does not have the immediate objective of economic interest. i would like to conclude by saying that the data collected so far prove the various positive aspects of the european year of volunteering by demonstrating, once again, that solidarity conquers selfishness. the results of the initiatives taken during the year show how important it is to continue working in this direction so that volunteering is not just a celebration of a year in a strategic sector of the union, but the awareness that volunteering is a clear solution to the cultural, social, environmental and educational problems we face every day.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, may i start with a humble plea: be united. this is the time for this house to show its full strength in being united. this is the time for being stronger and not weaker in our commitment to the eastern partnership. this is a time for us to be stronger and not weaker vis-à-vis the commitment of the reform path in ukraine. this is the only way to be credible, in urging all stakeholders in the political process in ukraine to ensure an inclusive and sustainable dialogue. i mentioned that in my statement and let me repeat it. the european union remains ready to sign the association agreement, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area, as soon as ukraine is ready and proves its commitment by deeds. let me make it absolutely clear. the association agreement is not being offered to the current president or to the current government. let me recall that we have started this discussion and negotiations years ago. let me stress what this agreement is indeed all about. it is an offer to ukraine, to the ukrainian people, and as such that is what is on the table. there is a shared ownership of the association agreement. so the message that the door is open should not reach only the president’s office or only the prime minister’s cabinet. our common values are based on the respect for and promotion of human rights, freedoms, democracy, and the rule of law. yet, the rights and freedom of all the states participating in the eastern partnership – their sovereignty, their right to choose their own destiny, and their freedom of association – are equally indispensable values in our partnership, which we respect and are ready to promote and defend. the vilnius summit declaration unequivocally reaffirms the sovereign right of each partner state to freely choose the level of ambition and the goals to which it aspires in its relations with the european union. we welcome the european aspirations of the ukrainian nation. and i firmly believe that the association agreement, including dcfta, will be the first substantial step towards fulfilling these aspirations. respect for our common values and implementation of the association agreement will define the future progressive development of our relationship. could we have done more than repeating that we welcome the european aspiration? i think the time has come for us to be more strategic and if we are saying (a) that we want to transform that part of europe, then we should be ready ultimately also to say (b) that we will be ready to use the most appropriate instrument we have for that transformation. the light at the end of the tunnel is missing. europe remains fully engaged and is committed to facilitating finding solutions to ukraine’s acute political crisis, based on the firm conviction that moving rapidly towards the signature of the association agreement would constitute a key step for restoring confidence. we are talking about confidence not only towards ukrainian citizens but also towards international investors from around the globe and international financial institutions, since association provides a blueprint for future-oriented, european union-related reforms in ukraine. in my speech to you, of 11 september 2013, i stated clearly, that our eastern partnership agenda is not directed against anyone, quite the contrary – all stand to gain. any threats of any form from russia linked to the signing of agreements with the european union are unacceptable. the vilnius summit proved to be an important reality check in this regard, one that was not of the european union’s choosing and we have drawn the necessary conclusions. keeping in mind the lessons learned in vilnius, and preparing for the summit in riga we need to swiftly proceed with the implementation of the eastern partnership agenda. we are strongly determined to sign the association agreement including the dcftas with georgia and the republic of moldova by autumn 2014 before the end of the term of this college. we will continue negotiations with azerbaijan. at the same time we will need to reflect on how to proceed with armenia given the current situation. further advancement in the area of mobility is no less important. i am very happy that it has been underlined by many of you. on the eve of the vilnius summit, having assessed all the reforms implemented by the republic of moldova, the european commission has tabled its legislative proposal to introduce visa-free travel for this country. i call on the council and the european parliament to proceed on this as quickly as possible. those, who deliver, need to be rewarded without any delays. moldova has become the first success story and an example for the others; and we should enhance our efforts in helping others to achieve the same. visa facilitation and liberalisation with the eastern partners is probably one of the best and most promising investments in the region and i call on ukraine to deliver on outstanding reforms so that it can follow in moldova’s path. we need to be more strategic and resolute. history will judge us not by the promises we made in vilnius, but by the promises we keep. i am not a plan b politician and i will always resist the temptation to play someone else’s game. we have the right policy and we have the right instrument and i am committed to working with catherine ashton, together with my colleagues, even more in order to make the best sense of it to the benefit of the transformation of that part of europe and for the benefit of the people of eastern europe.
the motions for resolutions, which must be tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2), will be notified subsequently. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.20 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing common rules and procedures for the implementation of the instruments of the union's external action (com (2010) 0842 - c7-0494/2011 - 2011/0415 (cod)) (a7-0447/2013), - the report by reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an instrument for stability (com (2011) 0845 - c7-0497/2011 - 2011/0445/2011 - 2011/0444/2011), - the proposal by antonio kardinelli, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european neighbourhood instrument (com (2011) 0842 - c7-044441/2011 - 2011/04404/2011), - the proposal by alexander berkofer, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an instrument for stability (com (2011) 08455 - c7-0494458/2011 - c7-0484148491 (cod)) (com (2011) 08491 final), on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european neighbourhood and neighbourhood instrument (com (2011) 04940) (com (2011) 08492 - c7-044)), on behalf of the committee on development of the european parliament, on european neighbourhood, on human rights and development and democracy, on the european union's, on the proposal for a regulation of the european neighbourhood, on the european instrument for european neighbourhood,
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased with the results of the negotiations on the instrument for stability and peace. we like the new name we proposed and we are particularly pleased with the content which outlines an instrument which we believe will allow us to strengthen better this overall approach of the union to conflict prevention and crisis response, in a way which does not duplicate the action of other instruments but ensures a complementary role, so to speak. we started with a proposal which had some criticisms, and i think that parliament has achieved some important successes not only in terms of a greater role of democratic control, through access to all relevant documents and also through a greater role in the strategic dialogue, but also on some substantial points concerning the greater role we wanted to give to the european external action service. the very important question of limits and limits on the financing of counter-terrorism activities, which must be fully consistent with the action plan on human rights, with the rule of law, and finally also on the question of the percentages between the different parts of the instrument and therefore on adequate financing for long-term prevention. so it is a positive result, partly because of the good atmosphere of cooperation between the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs.
madam president, as a shadow rapporteur for the european neighbourhood instrument, i would like to congratulate mr kukan for the huge effort and the result obtained during these difficult negotiations. with this instrument we finally have a good tool for implementation of the neighbourhood policy, especially with regard to the principle of a partnership of societies. more specifically, i hope this instrument will provide a good base for rebuilding our eastern partnership. the previous debate demonstrated what the major flaw of our eastern policy was: its anti-russian profile and its cold-war and clash of civilisations inspiration. all the foreign policy instruments we are discussing are opportunities for dialogue and cooperation, not for confrontation with the ghosts of the past. let us learn the lesson of the failed eastern partnership and move forward, making better use of these powerful instruments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new regulation on the egf is a good thing, allowing workers who have been made redundant to be integrated into the workforce, but it is not enough because the improvement of the fund is unfortunately not enough to stop the demolition of the european labour market. the majority of the workers who are made redundant will not find new employment or will have to settle for precarious solutions, not because the fund is not working, but because there is no work. if the commission really wants to rebuild the european market, then it must immediately put a stop to europe's excessive opening up to the markets of developing countries. until europe changes its position on global trade flows, our companies will continue to fail. the fund, let us be clear, is a fairly temporary support, but it is not through training courses that our unemployed will find the serenity and security to which every worker is entitled. besides, there's a big problem that's affecting my veneto too: the multinationals, after exploiting the territory, close the plant, leaving hundreds of employees without work. the commission must intervene to govern and prevent a social tragedy which is taking on increasingly worrying contours.
in writing. competition policy aims to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to protect consumers from anti-competitive practices. the report on competition policy highlights a worrying aspect: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the application of the competition rules to the internal market. in my view, a further element of concern is the credit situation of european smes. as the recent financial and economic crisis has worsened, credit to the real economy continues to shrink and become increasingly costly for both firms and households. this is a worrying situation which must be dealt with without further delay. another sector of fundamental importance to the european economy is transport. it is urgent to complete the implementation of the single european railway area and to ensure that the single market in rail passenger and freight transport is not damaged by member states' misapplication of union law. finally, in the context of a rising level of youth unemployment in europe, i agree with the rapporteur in reiterating his call for the commission to include in future reports a specific section on the impact of the european union's competition policy on employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that this parliament will be watching closely to see that the community method is fully respected in the agreements reached tonight on the srm. secondly, the contractual agreements seem to be the sole result of an exercise aimed at nothing less than drawing up a road map for a fiscal and economic union. we think it is a bit too little and we do not see any real agreement on the basic principles of this new instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but what added value a politically binding contract - as it is written - without incentives brings is really unclear. but it's the whole contractual logic that doesn't seem convincing. a two-pronged logic, the logic of homework, which risks being strong with the weak and weak with the strong. and then there is the complete absence of the social dimension of this exercise and the insistence on supply policies when the crisis is first and foremost a crisis of demand. the commission is also proposing to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. a critical and sceptical position is therefore inevitable. we are ready to play our institutional role, but if the principles set out in the resolution we are going to adopt are not properly taken into account, contractual agreements - if they ever get the go-ahead from the european council - will have a very hard life in this parliament.
i will give a few more seconds to give all the colleagues a chance to sit down and prepare their voting papers.
now the appointment of the president of the supervisory board of the european central bank, danièle nouy, bowles report, also by secret ballot. she's a woman, we've fought a great battle, even though she's not on the ecb board.
i'm told it's already been done, but we still need to send the communications to the services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the problem of counterfeiting the euro should be given great attention, especially as regards its links with organised crime. large-scale counterfeiting can damage the european economy and the stability of the currency itself. the euro is not, however, a currency subject to frequent counterfeiting. this is largely due to its design and the structures at national and union level for monitoring and combating counterfeiting. the pericles programme has played an important role in this process. this well-established programme has played an important role in disseminating best practices in the fight against counterfeiting and has thus contributed to the safeguarding of the financial interests of the union. however, the commission proposal still lacks a clear definition of certain areas and this report therefore seeks to develop this proposal by allowing the programme to optimise the use of the resources allocated to it.
in writing. - the mcintyre report on the pericles 2020 programme to combat euro counterfeiting is balanced and acceptable, so i supported it with my vote.
in writing. - it is sad to have to spend resources (time, energy and above all money) to combat counterfeiting, but it is also appropriate. among other things, there is an advantage to the single currency: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and it is not a step in the wrong direction. so we cannot afford to turn a blind eye to the entry of counterfeit coins into our wallets: the credibility of our currency and the success of the efforts under way to alleviate the debt crisis and to allow a revival of consumption and employment are at stake.
in writing. the monitoring, evaluation and management mechanisms envisaged by the rapporteur should ensure a cost-effective use of the available resources. in the context of surveillance and the fight against counterfeiting, the pericles programme has certainly played an important role in safeguarding the eu's financial interests. however, greater clarity is needed because some areas are vaguely defined. in short, we need more precision in the regulatory framework to protect our common currency effectively.
in writing. − counterfeiting of the euro is a severe crime and has a negative impact on the eu economy and the stability of the currency. to ensure effective actions will be taken to safeguard the euro against counterfeiting and related fraud, i decided to vote for the establishment of the pericles 2020 programme to protect the euro against counterfeiting.
in writing. - counterfeiting of the euro is undoubtedly a serious criminal offence and its link with organised crime must be taken into account when assessing the economic and social implications of counterfeiting on the lives of citizens. the euro is not, however, a currency subject to frequent counterfeiting, largely due to the structures in place at national and union level to monitor and combat counterfeiting. the pericles programme has played an important role in this process, disseminating best practice in the fight against counterfeiting. the proposal for a directive put forward by mr mcintyre aims to strengthen the pericles programme by introducing, for example, a minimum penalty of six months' imprisonment for the production and distribution of counterfeit coins and, in parallel, a maximum penalty of eight years' imprisonment for individuals for the distribution of at least eur 5 000.
in writing. − i did not intend to support the zalba bidegain report on the amendment of regulation (eu) no 99/2013 on the european statistical programme 2013-2017 with my vote, as i consider the budgetary allocation of public money required by the text to be excessive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this convention with my colleagues from the epp, because the main objective of the document is to promote domestic workers, who are granted various guarantees. among others, the right to a safe and healthy workplace, decent living conditions, equal treatment with other workers and the assurance of at least 24 consecutive hours of weekly rest.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the zuber report which analyses the international labour organisation's convention on decent work for domestic workers. the text deals exclusively with the situation of immigrant workers, with a view to ensuring optimal employment measures especially for the so-called 'baddies' from outside the community, while no reference is made to the need to protect the most defenceless european citizens, such as the elderly, from the manipulation and abuse to which they are too often exposed.
in writing. − the international labour organisation's convention on domestic workers, signed in 2011 and entered into force in september this year, introduces a series of measures to ensure decent working conditions by preventing abuse, violence and child labour in domestic work. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution authorising the eu member states to ratify this important convention.
in writing. - convention no 189 of the international labour organisation (ilo) provides for the obligation to protect domestic workers, most of whom are women, often in a highly vulnerable situation and victims of discrimination. domestic work is one of the least protected and visible jobs. in view of this situation, i voted in favour to emphasize the need, as mr zuber has said, to adopt measures to ensure decent working conditions, social rights and the prevention of abuse and domestic violence.
in writing. - i supported this report. the 2011 convention no 189 provides for the obligation of states that ratify it to take measures to ensure decent working conditions and social rights, preventing abuse, violence and child labour in domestic work. the european commission submitted on 21 march 2013 a proposal for a council decision authorising member states to ratify the convention. such authorisation is necessary as the convention concerns matters falling within the competence of the eu. we are asking the european parliament to allow the process to move forward with this report. it should be noted that several countries, in particular those from which migration flows originate, have already ratified the convention: the commission has also received comments from the exporting producers concerned. some eu countries have also already taken the necessary steps to ratify the convention, including italy and two other countries which intend to do so shortly: germany and belgium. in latin america, countries such as the dominican republic, colombia, argentina and costa rica have already expressed their willingness to sign the text. it is therefore a positive sign and by supporting it we have today given a sign of civilization to those workers who are often subject to non-existent occupational protections.
in writing. − in many member states of the european union, domestic workers often work without a contract, are required to work extra hours and on public holidays without due payment of their wages and with social security contributions unpaid. according to eurostat data, there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the eu, of whom 89 % are women and half are migrants. domestic workers are among the most unprotected workers, often uninformed of their rights and under-represented in labour associations or unions which can enable them to defend their labour and social rights. taking actions to guarantee decent conditions for domestic workers in europe is of great importance, therefore i voted for the proposal.
in writing. the main objective in the field of domestic work is to develop domestic workers as they play an important role in the economy. there is a need to define and regulate domestic work as one of the least protected and visible jobs, given the 'isolation' of those who do it. it is necessary to define a domestic worker as any person who performs domestic work within the framework of an employment relationship, having recognized the fundamental principles and rights in work, with equal treatment with other classes. the convention refers to the protection of migrant workers and introduces the need for a contract or a proposal from the employer before the worker arrives in the country of destination. it is necessary to ensure that such workers do not have a lower level of social and labour protection than other workers and in particular that employers make the payments due for social security contributions. it is also important to ensure that minimum wages correspond to the minimum wages laid down by national legislation. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i found the poręba report on the eu-armenia agreement unbalanced in many of its passages, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - more than 20 years after the dissolution of the ussr, the situation in the south caucasus remains very problematic. europe has a direct interest in maintaining political stability in this area, given the important trade flows and the international importance of the region for energy supplies. for this reason, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which seeks to deepen relations between the eu and the republic of armenia by allowing the latter to participate in certain specific union programmes. i hope that this new opening of the union to yeravan will help to build a bridge to the progressive strengthening of the principles of democracy, the rule of law and the universality and indivisibility of human rights in the caucasus region.
in writing. - all conditions are in place for the republic of armenia to participate actively in european union programmes. at this particular moment, the conditions exist for the request made by armenia to turn into a fruitful and active cooperation in the cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific fields. we are on the right track to consolidate political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in writing. − the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of armenia and the european communities has encouraged cooperation between armenia and the european union. the protocol seeks to establish a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in union programmes, allowing the european union to promote further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, as well as strengthening economic and political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement. therefore, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the nitras report on the eu-france agreement on the application of eu taxation legislation to the community of saint-barthélemy. i believe that it is essential for the protection of the union's interests in the fight against crossborder fraud and evasion that the rules on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and taxation of savings income continue to apply in this territory.
in writing. - the adoption of this proposal is basically an automatic act of this parliament. the obligation stems from the decision, already taken in 2010, to change the status of saint barthélemy (from an outermost region and overseas territory), and the application of the resulting tax legislation goes hand in hand with that decision. i therefore had no difficulty in voting in favour of this measure.
in writing. − saint-barthélemy ceased to be an outermost region of the union and gained the status of overseas country or territory on 1 january 2012. the conclusions on the impact on legislation of the change of status are justified and i voted to approve it.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today to approve the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the french republic providing for the application, with regard to the caribbean island of saint-barthélemy, of the union's legislation on taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal together with my colleagues from the epp, thus authorising spain to apply, until june 2014, tax exemptions or reductions for a list of products, locally manufactured in the canary islands, after explaining the reasons for the adoption of the specific measures, designed to boost local industry by making it more competitive.
in writing. - the hübner report, which calls for the amendment of the time limits laid down in decision 2002/546/ec, with a six-month extension of the time limits contained therein, is not critical, which is why i supported it with my vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to extend to the canary islands the favourable tax arrangements in force for certain locally produced goods: the commission has also proposed that the european union should provide a financial contribution to the european investment bank (eib) to finance the financing of the european investment bank (eib) in the form of a loan for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes).
in writing. - i hope that the commission will give equal consideration to requests from other territories in similar difficulty in the future, just as it has given consideration to the request made by the spanish government for the canary islands. i welcome any action which promotes the industrial growth of a territory. the crisis has brought too many european regions to their knees. the commission's ability to listen to the needs of a population in difficulty is a welcome sign.
in writing. − the economic crisis has greatly affected the canary islands, significantly reducing income and increasing unemployment. the spanish authorities have requested the renewal of special rules granting exemptions from or reductions in taxes on products produced locally in the canary islands for the period 2014-2020. i am convinced that the application is justified and voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it stresses the need for the eu and its member states to honour their commitments to fulfil the ‘aid effectiveness agendaʼ. the treaties give the eu the legal basis to strengthen the coherence and the effectiveness of the euʼs external action and the only obstacles to this are lack of political will and bureaucracy. it is vital that more effective coordination is achieved by the eu and its member states through joint programming, including domestic division of labour in order to avoid overlapping of actions and high transaction costs. moreover there is a clear need to undertake a careful analysis of each recipient countryʼs specific needs, while ensuring that projects financed are embedded in the local economy and benefit those most in need.
in writing. the epp voted in favour of the mitchell report, which proposes a number of legislative initiatives to implement a better coordination mechanism for donations within the european union. the measures also included the need to avoid duplication, i.e. overlapping and fragmentation of aid provided by the various member states, in order to reduce costs and administrative burdens for individual member states by promoting a community-wide approach. the report calls on the commission to submit a proposal by the first half of 2016 to regulate the aspects related to the coordination of development aid and to implement a roadmap of preparatory actions to facilitate the entry into force of these aspects.
in writing. - i found the mitchell report unclear in many of its passages, and so i decided not to support it with my vote.
in writing. − belonging to the european union also means achieving economies of scale through the increased efficiency that better coordination of external policies allows. in the case of development aid, while the evangelical maxim 'let not the right hand know what the left hand is doing' is true, we must also say that we are all tightening our belts a little and cannot afford to waste resources in the management of such aid. it is therefore appropriate to work better together on what we do, so that the resources allocated to this purpose benefit those who really need them and are not lost along the way. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the cost of non-europe report concluded that the european union could save eur 8.4 billion of annual spending on development aid if country allocation was completely coordinated and had poverty reduction as its only target. this highlights the importance of improving efficiency in the spending of development aid and better cooperation with the international community and local governments, citizens and ngos. therefore, i voted for the recommendations made to the commission on this issue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of mr phil wynn owen as a member of the court of auditors, a body which plays a vital role in the european institutional community. it therefore deserves to be able to operate to its full potential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of mr alex brenninkmeijer as a member of the court of auditors, a body which plays a key role in the european institutional community. it therefore deserves to be able to operate to its full potential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of mr henri grethen as a member of the court of auditors, a body which plays a key role in the european institutional community. it therefore deserves to be able to operate to its full potential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of mr nikolaos milionis as a member of the court of auditors, a body which plays a key role in the european institutional community. it therefore deserves to be able to operate to its full potential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of mr daniele lamarque as a member of the court of auditors, a body which plays a key role in the european institutional community. it therefore deserves to be able to operate to its full potential.
in writing. − the committee on economic and monetary affairs has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions set out in article 26 (2) and (3) of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013. i do not share the candidate's views on banking supervision, but i did not intend to support her with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of mr daniele nouy as president of the supervisory board of the european central bank for a five-year term. this is a very important task and carries great responsibility for the planning and execution of the ecb's supervisory tasks and the mandate to exercise direct supervision over the most significant banks in the euro area.
in writing. - the brok report analysing the common rules and procedures for implementing the union's external action instruments has broadly shared content and i have therefore decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it aims to make eu external action spending even more transparent, targeted, efficient and, above all, visible, despite austerity. the new eu foreign policy for 2014-2020 is structured around six funds with a total value of over €51 billion. funding is directed to programmes aimed at promoting democracy in third countries or to financing european assistance to neighbouring countries such as ukraine, provided that they undertake democratic reforms. i appreciate that arrangements have been made to ensure that non-european countries can also receive direct budget support if they adopt democratic values, support human rights and respect the rule of law. this will then enable the eu to use its economic power and influence to spread universal human values. i particularly appreciated the call for greater cooperation between the eu and the member states, as well as between the european external action service and the european commission. the commission will present a review of eu foreign policy spending by the end of 2017 for possible adjustments.
in writing. − in an increasingly complex and dynamic global context, the european union's ability to guarantee an area of security, peace and democracy for its citizens is closely linked to its ability to promote and defend its interests and values in the international community. for this reason, i voted in favour of the regulation establishing the common regulatory framework for the use of the resources made available for the union's external action under the new multiannual financial framework.
thank you, sir. but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the bütikofer report, mr luhan, which is not here. so, mr šuica, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to i'm not sure. mr higgins, i have to ask you a question.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation establishing a new instrument for stability and peace as i believe it is vital to support a common eu action on preserving peace and strengthening international security. this financial instrument aims to increase stability and security in the areas of conflict prevention, crisis response and peace-building. even though i supported this text however, i believe that there is still room for improvement. recent events surrounding the arab spring have demonstrated that the eu still lacks effective short and medium-term instruments to end conflicts and reduce violence during immediate transition phases.
in writing. - i think that the brok report is acceptable in all its parts, so i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new instrument for stability (ias) to finance the union's external action activities aimed at preventing and responding to global security crises and challenges. the new ifs has been strengthened compared to the past to take account of the increased complexity and fluidity of the international environment in the light of global threats to our security such as terrorism, organised crime and illicit trafficking.
in writing. − the adoption at first reading of this resolution declares the european parliament's intention to support the commission's proposals aimed at greater effectiveness in the implementation of the stability instruments. however, the economic and financial turbulence europe is experiencing requires further efforts to steadily strengthen the instruments already made available by the eu to member states, as well as the desirable intervention to prevent and safeguard european citizens from possible new periods of economic crisis.
in writing. − created in 2007, the fund proved to be a concrete and innovative improvement in the eu's response capacity to humanitarian crises. the stability fund is a humanitarian assistance instrument that allows for a rapid and adequate response to crisis situations triggered by natural disasters. it allows the eu to contribute to the solution of global and interregional problems by addressing special needs that cannot be met by eu external action alone. that is why i voted in favour of the report by mr reinhard bütikofer on the stability fund.
in writing. − the instrument for stability was created to improve the eu’s crisis response capacity, including solving global or trans-regional problems beyond the scope of specific geographic or thematic instruments. the commission proposed to maintain this instrument and enhance its flexibility; i decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a stability and peace facility for the period 2014-2020, with a financial envelope of approximately eur 2.34 billion. the instrument shall provide direct support for the union's external policies, increasing the efficiency and coherence of the union's actions in the areas of conflict prevention, crisis preparedness and response and peace building in the face of global threats to peace, international security and stability.
in writing. − i support this text which was a result of a long and difficult negotiation. i believe that the final version of this text is fully in line with the mandate given by this parliament more than one year ago to the rapporteur. with this instrument we have finally a good tool for the implementation of the reviewed european neighbourhood policy. we are particularly proud of our success in upholding the role of parliament resolutions in the european neighbourhood instrument policy framework.
in writing. - i do not share the views of the kukan report, which is why i did not support it in the vote.
in writing. − the european union's external action is based on four major strategic priorities: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, in particular enlargement, cooperation with strategic partners, development cooperation and the european neighbourhood policy. the latter is more important than ever, as in an increasingly changing global context it is vital that brussels works to avoid new fault lines between the eu and the countries surrounding it. to this end, the new european neighbourhood instrument will ensure the continuity of the eu's engagement in this area, while allowing for a more effective and flexible approach. that is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy has successfully improved the euʼs relationship with partner countries and contributed to the mutual benefit of the eu and its partners. the proposal also highlights that the european neighbourhood instrument should support external parties such as civil society organisations to promote domestic accountability and local ownership. i believe the proposed measures will contribute to the stability of the neighbouring countries of the eu and voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the european union's annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2012, which i also dealt with in the committee on development, which delivered an opinion on this subject through mr gustafsson, underlines the eu's efforts to promote the integration of human rights, gender equality, democracy and good governance in development policies and instruments. i therefore voted in favour today.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation establishing a new instrument for pre-accession assistance as i believe it is extremely important to encourage and support countries in transition towards accession to the union. in addition, i think this instrument could also generate far-reaching benefits to member states as the enlargement process reinforces stability in europe and allows the union to address global challenges. i believe it is essential to make a better use of the funds and provide motivation for using the assistance in a proper manner. therefore i welcome the initiative to schedule a mid-term review with the possibility of re-allocating the funds for individual policies.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the rouček report on the preaccession assistance instrument, so i did not intend to support this text with my vote.
in writing. the more than two hundred thousand people who have taken to the streets in kiev in recent days to protest against the government's decision not to sign the association agreement with the eu show that the community project is - despite the difficulties brought on by the crisis - a horizon of hope for the peoples of europe who are currently excluded from it. this episode should remind the eu even more of its responsibilities in promoting and extending the area of freedom, security, democracy and the rule of law on which it is founded. to this end, the instrument for pre-accession assistance aims to accompany the political and economic transformation of eu partners who aspire to join. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution approving the new instrument of pre-accession assistance which, under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, has been made simpler and more effective than in the past.
in writing. - this instrument is essentially used to get our money to turkey: the asian country accounts for about half of the total allocation of this fund, and we are not talking about modest figures. in the last programming period 2007-2013 ankara received, through this programme alone, about five billion euros, a huge amount, which was used to finance a country that continued to grow significantly even when the crisis was raging throughout europe. unfortunately, the situation has not changed, and we will continue to support our turkish neighbours generously, with billions of dollars coming in the next few years. turkey is of course grateful for all this generosity, and thanks to the businesses that are developing there, while in our country there is a daily moray, with impressive numbers witnessing a dramatic situation. the incredible thing is that this country does not show the slightest gratitude towards the eu, but instead enjoys insulting and threatening, as happened during the eu presidency in cyprus. they are probably right, because this europe which gives money to everyone and starves its citizens deserves nothing but deep contempt.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation establishing a partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries as i believe it is important to establish a financial tool able to advance and promote eu values and mutual interests with partner countries. moreover, i would like to stress the importance of this new instrument as it will enable member states to develop relations through a policy of increased cooperation. this will be achieved through policy dialogues, supporting measures and regional or multilateral relationships with non-eu countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report analysing the partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries, as i consider it to be acceptable and balanced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries. i believe that the gradual shift in the centre of gravity of the world economy and trade towards the emerging countries (the so-called brics) requires the eu to make greater efforts to consolidate cooperation with these countries and thus to encourage the opening up of their markets and the creation of new business opportunities for our companies.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries aims to promote cooperation with countries graduating from development assistance and becoming eu economic interest partners. the financial instrument has a limited budget of eur 1.131 billion for the 2014-2020 period. this instrument will help the eu deal with global issues in line with its interests; i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the regulation tabled by mr lópez-istúriz white, which i also dealt with in the committee on development in response to the opinion delivered by mr salom, is a new and complementary means of providing direct support for the union's external policies. the instrument, which will be worth some eur 955 million and will run for seven years, will help to increase cooperation partnerships and dialogue policies with the third countries concerned.
in writing. - i do not consider the lambsdorff report as it has been developed and its future implementation to be sustainable, and for these reasons i voted against it.
in writing. − the promotion of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for human dignity are an essential guideline of the european union's external action. it is through the development of an increasing number of free, democratic societies which guarantee full protection of human rights that the difficult path towards the eradication of the main threats to peace and security in the international context is completed. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world.
in writing. − the commission proposed that a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms worldwide be established. civil society organisations, human rights defenders and victims of repression and abuse will be supported with this instrument. i believe this will be a positive step towards making the world a freer community and i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr lambsdorff on the instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world, which is part of the 'package of regulations' on the european union's external action. the european union, as the rapporteur has said, must strengthen its commitment to respect, promote and protect human rights and democratic principles in its relations with third countries.
in writing. - the berman report on the financing instrument for development cooperation is well structured, clear and well thought out, which is why i have decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the financing of the european union's development cooperation programmes. brussels must choose the right balance of policies, instruments and resources to make a positive contribution to development and the fight against poverty on a global scale. in this context, i strongly believe that the development cooperation instrument should define the appropriate regulatory framework within which to achieve this objective.
in writing. − having read the report, i decided to vote in favour of the proposal establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a very serious crisis which affects many people, and above all many workers. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which i consider very important because it introduces three new features: the first is that the fund will also apply to fixedterm workers, temporary staff and selfemployed persons. secondly, the scope will cover not only the effects of globalisation but also the unfavourable employment conditions mainly due to the economic crisis; thirdly, the fund will also be able to temporarily serve the needs of young people who are not involved in training, employment or apprenticeship. this is a very important point because it recalls a problem, that of the effect of the crisis, especially on young people, on the younger generations, which in italy, in my country, has one of its most worrying manifestations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's vote on the civil protection mechanism, parliament is today approving another instrument of solidarity with workers and another instrument of a social nature: the globalisation adjustment fund, which is intended to cover the following expenditure: the fund was set up in 2007 to provide support in the european union to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes caused by globalisation or unexpected crises, such as natural disasters, leading to the closure of a factory. today, however, we have adopted an innovative regulation which i supported, introducing new features which simplify access to the fund, the admission applications, the evaluation and approval procedures and, above all, extend the scope of application to temporary workers, the selfemployed and farmers, and thus the fund has a greater extension. the only regret, mr president, and i conclude, is that the fund will be reduced in size in the coming years, but otherwise it is certainly a positive instrument which is a credit to this house.
in writing. - the european parliament has today delivered a concrete message to help workers made redundant as a result of the effects of globalisation and the economic crisis. it was essential to maintain the european globalisation adjustment fund for the coming years and there was a strong commitment from the european parliament to extend this instrument to other categories of workers. from january 2014, the egf will also be available to self-employed workers, temporary workers and young people who are not in employment or training, the so-called neets. in recent years, the egf has proved to be an effective instrument for reintegrating workers into the labour market, improving their employability (the rate of reintegration is close to 50%) and offering new opportunities also to the most vulnerable categories of workers. i would remind you, however, that this is not a fund to finance new social insurance schemes, but to co-finance active measures for reintegration into the labour market, i.e. training, guidance and vocational retraining.
in writing. − i fully support parliamentʼs position on the legislative proposal renewing the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) as i strongly believe that the current crisis is exacerbating unemployment rates and poverty across the union. i consider this fund to be a valid instrument able to mitigate the effects of such a persistent difficult economic situation by introducing financial support for re-skilling workers made redundant and facilitating their re-integration. in addition, i believe that a new egf criterion with the wider eligibility scope signifies a more precise answer to market needs. indeed the new egf will now include: small and medium enterprises, the self-employed, workers with non-standard employment contracts and farmers. on top of that i completely agree with the importance of softening the stringent conditions imposed by the application procedure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the harkin report analysing the european globalisation adjustment fund for the years 2014-2020. this is an important instrument which can help redundant workers to reintegrate into the labour market, but we must not forget the priorities which this europe must always keep clear, first and foremost, that of rebuilding an eu labour market to protect our citizens and our companies.
in writing. - i voted in favour because, despite the heavy cuts to the annual budget (the fund has gone from eur 500 million to eur 150 million), parliament has fought hard to keep this fund for workers in difficulty. with a budget of €150 million a year, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps young people and workers to find employment and to acquire new skills if they are unemployed or out of work because their company has closed or relocated because of the economic crisis. the fund will also provide assistance to young people who are not in employment, education or training. in particular, funding is directed at: measures to finance job search, vocational guidance, targeted training and retraining, advice and promotion services for entrepreneurship and special 'activity income supplements' of a temporary nature (job search allowance, mobility aid, training aid, measures to motivate disadvantaged workers to stay or return to the labour market).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new european globalisation adjustment fund which will come into force on 1 january 2014 and run until 2020. the appropriation provided for will help workers who will lose their jobs as a result of the economic crisis. unemployment is a scourge that is tearing our societies apart and europe must respond with firmness and determination, given the scarcity of national public resources available. i also welcome the extension to new categories of workers such as the selfemployed, those on fixed-term contracts and young people.
in writing. - we fought because we believe in the possibility of a recovery of the european union. with the right tools, it's a mission possible. we can and must return to growth with a programme geared to dynamic job creation. the egf may contribute to achieving these objectives by supporting redundant workers when they seek employment, retraining or further training or when they start their own business. we were able to effectively counter the council's request that up to 50% of the total funding be used for income support. unfortunately, we have not been able to bring the financial resources for the egf back to the previous level, and that is a great pity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european globalisation adjustment fund 2014-2020, as it is a key support tool for european workers made redundant as a result of the phenomenon of business relocation. the transfer of many european companies to countries where labour costs are lower is nothing but a distortive effect of globalisation. as vice-president of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i could only support the document's emphasis on the need to promote gender equality in the workplace.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european globalisation adjustment fund 2014-2020. the fund is an essential instrument to support and facilitate the reintegration into employment of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation and the economic crisis. i welcome the expansion of the categories of workers who can access the egf, which now includes selfemployed workers and those on fixed-term contracts. attention is also important to the unemployed young people: in the regions involved in the youth employment initiative, neets will also be eligible for the fund. the regulation also strengthens the partnership principle by ensuring consultation of workers or their representatives. for these reasons, i believe that the fund is vital to ensure that europe supports workers and young people in difficulty.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was created to support european workers made redundant by major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation. in order to promote efficient usage of the fund and allocation of resources, it is important to improve communication and cooperation between the commission, the managing bodies, national authorities, the social partners, the individual workers and the different agencies involved. therefore, i voted in favour of the commission proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal to amend directive 2011/16/eu on the automatic exchange of information between tax administrations in the member states provides that dividends and capital gains, other financial income and account balances are to be added to the list of categories subject to the ics within the european union. while there is no doubt that the objective of combating tax evasion and tax fraud, which cost each citizen some eur 2 000 a year in the european union, is fully shared, due consideration should be given to the position taken by the european people's party with regard to some concerns expressed and some precautions suggested in order to prevent the emergence of possible future conflicts of competence between member states and the european union. far from waterboarding this parliamentary initiative as advocated in this house, the european people's party and i have supported the work carried out in the conviction that the fight against tax evasion is a priority that should not be dispersed.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the cutaş report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the tax field, as this would give the commission even more power in tax matters, which is why i did not support this text.
in writing. - contrary to what a former italian minister of economy once said, i don't think paying taxes is nice. it is a duty to contribute to the financing of goods and services available to all, progressively as indicated by the italian constitution. this duty has two important implications: the first concerns the taxpayers, because the free-riding effect penalizes all those who do their duty, and those who do not do their part either reduce the resources available, with clear consequences for the quality of the service, or force others to reach for their wallets to make up for it. the second important implication is political: if taxes are a way to incentivize some behaviors and discourage others, evasion renders powerless politics, which has no tools to influence society, that is, to fulfill the duty that the people assigned through voting, and cannot make decisions. the cooperation between the member states in this field meets the needs mentioned and i thought it appropriate to vote in favour.
in writing. − i still remember when, as a young child, the fifth of five children with a single-income father, i could not access pre-school education, while some of my colleagues, who came to university on 500 motorcycles, benefited from these economic benefits. tax evasion, especially in italy, is a painful issue and has been for many, many years. the fight against the "furbetti", but perhaps it is better to call them criminals, must be without neighborhood. anything which will in future make it possible to intensify and improve the fight against tax evasion in europe and beyond is to be welcomed.
in writing. − in times of crisis, when citizens face a significant increase in tax burdens, the issue of tax fraud and evasion, as well as tax havens, which currently cost each european citizen around eur 2000 per year, needs to be seriously addressed. i am in full support of the european commission's initiative which proposes better practices for the exchange of information between member states and which is in line with the commission's action plan on tax fraud and tax evasion and with the position expressed by parliament. that is why i voted in favour of mr cutaş's report.
in writing. - we have approved this regulation, which aims to replace national procedures for declaration and authorization of carriers transporting radioactive materials with a single registration system. this is to allow simplification of procedures and reduction of administrative burdens while maintaining a high level of radiation protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the kovács report on the registration of carriers of radioactive materials. the proposed regulatory reform will simplify the procedures currently in place, reducing administrative burdens and increasing protection for european citizens.
in writing. - in a sensitive area such as radioactive materials, where the health of citizens must be the priority, the union cannot afford to have unclear, ineffective and different rules in force in the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which seeks to replace national procedures for monitoring carriers of radioactive materials with a single european registration system.
in writing. the report concerns the proposal to replace national procedures for the transport of radioactive materials by a common registration system. i am voting in favour of this because the objectives are to simplify procedures, reduce administrative burdens and maintain a high level of radiation protection safety.
in writing. − simplify procedures and reduce costs while maintaining a high level of radiation protection. i welcome the objectives set out by the rapporteur, mr kovács. a community regulation is necessary and will serve to ensure ever more effective safety standards. a single registration system will enable the competent authorities to monitor transport efficiently. it will also make it easier for companies in this sector to do their jobs.
in writing. − radioactive materials can be a huge threat to the health of workers and the general public. safety standards on protection from dangers arising from ionising radiations ensure that better monitoring of these carriers must be complied with. to improve efficiency in implementing the rules, national authorities of member states need to harmonise the registration system and set up an information exchange mechanism. the commission proposal is justified and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − fundamental human rights and freedoms form the foundation of eu law and are now an essential reference point for the eu in all its activities, both in its internal law and in its external action. the eu's annual report on human rights and democracy - which parliament is due to approve today - shows the eu's progress on the international stage in this area in 2012. i am voting in favour of this resolution, in recognition of the important steps taken by brussels in promoting and protecting human rights in the world. my hope is that europe can continue along this path, giving a clear direction to its international commitment to democracy, justice and human rights.
in writing. the report concerns the annual report on human rights. this year, however, the approach to the report has changed from previous years, addressing the issue from a thematic rather than a geographical point of view. the thematic areas are: human rights in trade policies; human rights in development policies; eu and transition processes; enlargement and human rights, stalled transitions and worrying countries; election observation and democracy support; business and human rights; freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief; women and children; eu support for the un human rights system and the international criminal court, as well as in the fight against the death penalty. i find this division of responsibilities to be strategic in the defence of human rights, and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − having read the report, i decide to vote for it, to promote human rights and equality worldwide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this annual report is very important because it unfortunately shows that there are still distortions of competition in the market which have a very negative impact on social cohesion, employment and growth. in particular, there are still numerous anticompetitive practices by the private sector in the form of cartels between undertakings, but also by the public sector which, in strategic areas such as rail transport, telecommunications and energy, is struggling to open up and thus to liberalize in practice. the emphasis is also on the application of the state aid rules, which sometimes operate in an unbalanced way in favour of entities such as banks, to the detriment of entities such as small and medium-sized enterprises which see the cost of money rise and rise, especially in this time of crisis. i believe that this report can be called a useful and important complaint, which can serve as a guide for the committee to give different answers to citizens - to cite a single case, which is addressed to our institutions - to the committee that i represent, the committee on petitions, like the approximately 100 000 italian citizens who complained about the existence of an anti-competitive practice in the field of compulsory insurance.
in writing. − i share the views expressed in the annual report on eu competition policy, which recognises the importance of europe's support for smes, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i supported the report because, while welcoming the commission's commitment to controlling mergers, removing barriers to competition, abuses of dominant positions, collusive agreements and state aid distortions for the benefit of the single market, contributing to the wider policy objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and supporting growth, jobs and the competitiveness of the eu economy in 2012, the report highlights the need for further effort. the need for competition policy to become more flexible is a key factor in meeting the challenges of globalisation. too many sectors are currently separated by national borders and artificial barriers, public or private. competition policy must play a key role in combating this fragmentation and creating a level playing field in all areas of the single market, taking into account the particular needs of smes and consumers. finally, the commission is invited to examine the possibility of adopting a legislative proposal for a european regulatory body which would allow cooperation with national regulatory authorities.
in writing. - competition, if healthy and fair, is a stimulus to improvement and ultimately produces beneficial effects for all. however, the temptation remains strong for those in a position of advantage to avoid undergoing them in order to reduce their risks. it is very good that the european commission is paying such attention to the fairness of competitive behaviour and to fining those who do not comply with the rules. i therefore support this report, which stresses the role of the commission in restoring conditions for competition for all. i'm a little puzzled when it comes to the specific case of google: i do not think this is the place to go into the matter, but i think parliament has approached the matter not as it should have done, from a technical and impartial point of view, but by following the previous positions, often suggested by competitors. the final proposal is balanced, but we should be more careful not to be swayed by emotions when assessing situations such as the online map market.
in writing. - i am very pleased that an amendment i tabled to the commission and national regulators to investigate possible collusion between companies and abuse of a dominant position in car insurance markets was passed by a very large majority in the report on competition policy. this is a battle i have been waging for some time, because it is obvious to everyone that there is a complete lack of competition and transparency in this sector. a typical and paradoxical case concerns motorcycle insurance, which in certain circumstances may even be higher than the cost of the motorcycle itself. it is clear that situations like this have much wider implications, because the entire motorcycle manufacturing and marketing sector is affected, for example, because no individual is willing to pay such disproportionate amounts, and therefore the entire market suffers, which sees italy as the leading producer at european level. the commission cannot pretend that everything is fine and that there are no problems, as it had superficially answered a question i asked about this in 2011. we hope that concrete steps will now be taken to resolve this situation, which must be tackled as quickly as possible.
in writing. - the european single market, 20 years after its creation, is still very fragmented and suffers from numerous inefficiencies, and the european smes are the main ones to pay for it. the current antitrust law dates back to 1957 and was designed for a world that was very different. today the world has changed, with new emerging economies like china, brazil and india attacking our economies with fierce competition also due to the most competitive commodity prices. competition policy therefore needs to be modernised to reflect the specificities of a globalised environment. the commission's antitrust policy should also be less rigid and should benefit european businesses which are crucial to growth.
in writing. − fair competition and a level playing field are requisites for the effective functioning of the single market and the well-being of european citizens. however, anti-competition practices still exist in many fields of both the private sector and the public sector in europe. therefore, i voted in favour of this yearʼs annual report and urge the eu to take more actions to develop a more competitive, transparent and properly functioning single market.
in writing. - twenty years after the birth of the single market, many european consumers are still seriously harmed by anti-competitive practices in a variety of economic sectors. the text adopted today welcomes the commission's report on eu competition policy and its contribution to eliminating barriers, abuse of dominant positions, collusive agreements and distorted state aid, in favour of a single market which takes account of the evolution of the global economy, without leaving in the background the necessary convergence of competition rules.
in writing. - i found the dorfmann report on maintaining milk production in mountain areas, lessfavoured areas and the outermost regions after the expiry of the milk quota system to be agreeable, and therefore supported it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour because, by approving the report, a stable future for the dairy sector will be ensured, depopulation of rural areas will be avoided and more funds will be provided for disadvantaged areas where the difficulties of collecting and transporting milk greatly increase production costs. this is a coherent rural development programme for mountain areas and less-favoured milk production areas. the report also stresses the importance of measures to encourage young farmers to set up businesses in mountain areas and calls on the member states to create the necessary framework to ensure that producers and processors in mountain and lessfavoured areas have access to training and credit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. the milk quotas have been a key support for the sector. this will be the first time in 31 years that the quotas will not be operational and this change will certainly have a negative impact on operators, especially those belonging to areas at greater risk. it is therefore important to support farmers and operators in mountain areas, disadvantaged areas and outermost regions, which will be most affected by the change in the new common agricultural policy.
in writing. − the european dairy sector will undergo a substantial change following the abolition of milk quotas in 2015. after 31 years, the sector will no longer be regulated by quotas. this substantial change is likely to cause market distortions, especially in mountain areas, disadvantaged areas and the outermost regions. in these areas, milk production is often the only source of income and the local community is heavily dependent on the dairy sector. to ensure a stable future for the sector and to avoid the depopulation of rural areas, it is therefore absolutely essential to take action at european level. the 'milk pack' is just a first step: we cannot leave the producers alone and we cannot allow the abandonment and degradation of rural areas which are an element of tradition, charm and beauty of our union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr dorfmann's report because i believe that the dairy sector, which is the basis of the economy of many regions, must necessarily be protected and safeguarded. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
in writing. − milk quotas will expire in 2015 which will greatly affect the dairy sector in the europe union, causing some market disruption, especially in the disadvantaged areas and the outermost regions. for these areas, milk production is often the only source of income and the local community depends heavily on the dairy sector. therefore, i voted in favour of this proposal to provide sufficient economic certainties to ensure the most vulnerable areas do not suffer from depopulation in the market transition of the dairy sector.
in writing. the report by mr dorfmann on milk production in lessfavoured areas after the expiry of the milk quota system was approved today in plenary. in 2015, the european milk sector will no longer be governed by milk quotas. this substantial change is likely to cause market distortions in this sector, especially in disadvantaged areas and in the outermost regions where milk production is often the only source of income for the local community. i agree with the rapporteur that in order to ensure a stable future for the sector and to avoid depopulation of rural areas, measures must be taken at european level and the impact of the abolition of quotas, particularly in the areas most at risk, must be further analysed in order to ensure adequate living conditions for farmers and a future for rural areas.
in writing. − the european dairy sector will undergo a major change after the abolition of milk quotas in 2015. for the first time in 31 years, the sector will not be regulated by milk quotas. this substantial change is likely to cause market distortions in the dairy sector, especially in the less-favoured areas and the outermost regions. in these areas, milk production is often the only source of income and the local community is heavily dependent on the dairy sector. to ensure a stable future for the sector and to avoid the depopulation of rural areas, as well as negative economic and environmental consequences, action will need to be taken at european level. the so-called 'milk package', which aims to strengthen the bargaining power of producers, is only a first step in this direction, but it will not ensure the future of milk production in these most vulnerable areas. it is also vital to further analyse the impact of the abolition of quotas, in particular in disadvantaged areas and the outermost regions. the main objective of this report is therefore to focus on the areas most at risk, to ensure adequate living conditions for farmers and a future for rural areas. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. in his report, mr dorfmann, a member of the ppe delegation, draws attention to the abolition of milk quotas by 2015 and its negative impact on milk production in disadvantaged or mountain areas and in the outermost regions. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant aid to producers of milk and milk products in the milk sector.
in writing. − i support this text which welcomes the commission’s 2012 resilience communication and seeks to ensure that a long-term approach to resilience-building and disaster risk reduction (drr) is further developed. i believe that the eu should target fragile and crisis-prone countries in its resilience agenda and invest in strengthening local institutions. the aim is to achieve stability and ensure that basic services are provided for vulnerable populations. we should stress that investing in drr measures is far more cost-effective than funding disaster response after the event.
in writing. - i found the positions expressed in the mitchell report, which analyses the eu approach to resilience and disaster risk reduction in developing countries, to be shared, and therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − according to studies by the asian development bank, one dollar invested in disaster risk reduction in a crisis-prone area saves at least four dollars in relief and reconstruction costs. this is enough to show how important it is that development aid resources are increasingly directed towards developing strategies to build resilience and reduce disaster risk. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which calls for the eu to reorient its development aid programmes in this direction. in a difficult economic environment such as the present one, with ever fewer resources available for development aid, any effort to increase the effectiveness of such aid can only be welcomed.
in writing. - invest first so as not to have to pay much more later. worldwide, disasters have caused enormous loss of life, as well as severe economic losses. according to data from the united nations office for disaster risk reduction (unisdr), between 1992 and 2012, 64% of the world's population was affected by disasters, with 1.3 million deaths and $2 trillion in damage. the poorest countries suffer the most. and more and more often the affected populations suffer, precisely as a result of disasters, severe food crises. since 2000, the number of food emergencies occurring each year has been between 50 and 65, compared to 25-45 in the 1990s. it is usually said that "prevention is better than cure". it 's true . investing in resilience and disaster risk reduction initiatives is more cost-effective. one euro spent on prevention is worth 4/7 euros spent on disaster response. but despite this, 95 percent of the funding is still going to disaster response, while only 5 percent goes to prevention. it's important to change course.
in writing. − disasters can lead to a series of consequences such as poverty and food shortage, affecting especially the most vulnerable groups in developing countries. resilience is an effective measure to minimise the impact of disasters in terms of cost-efficiency. the asian development bank estimates that every dollar invested in disaster risk reduction in a crisis prone area saves at least four dollars in relief and rehabilitation costs in the future. hence, the european union should be encouraged to advance resilience and disaster risk reduction (drr) strategies due to their cost-effectiveness, as europe is still facing economic difficulties. the report also recognises the challenges of climate change. therefore, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − disaster risk reduction is certainly an essential component of resilience, as it requires risk analysis and management to reduce vulnerability to disasters and build resilience. investing in resilience and disaster risk reduction initiatives is also more cost-effective. according to asian development bank estimates, one dollar invested in disaster risk reduction in a crisis-prone area saves at least four dollars in relief and reconstruction costs. in the light of the constraints imposed on national and eu budgets by economic difficulties and the growing political need to demonstrate greater effectiveness of development spending, a strong commitment to the promotion of resilience and disaster risk reduction strategies is therefore necessary in view of their cost-benefit ratio. in order to make significant progress on the resilience approach, mr mitchell calls for resilience measures to be closely integrated into humanitarian and development aid programming, while also recognising the challenges posed by climate change and emphasising the need to take account of climate change adaptation needs in resilience and disaster risk reduction initiatives.
in writing. - 15% of the european population are disabled and one in four europeans has a disabled family member. these data show the importance of taking action to ensure their full and effective integration. women with disabilities are even more vulnerable, suffering from multiple discrimination and at greater risk of violence. rape, forced confinement to nursing homes, sterilization, and forced abortion are just a few examples of what they too often experience. the full integration of these young people into the world of work is not yet guaranteed, and it is therefore impossible for them to pursue their programme of independence. i therefore wholeheartedly support mrs werthmann's proposal, since i am sure that we have a duty to create an environment favourable to all eu citizens on equal terms.
in writing. - the werthmann report is unclear in many of its passages, which is why i decided to abstain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report in support of women with disabilities. i strongly agree with the idea that disability should not be considered a handicap but rather a condition. women with disabilities are doubly discriminated against, while they are endowed with multiple talents and skills that can enrich our social contexts. policies must be able to exploit this potential and make every effort to strengthen measures on education and training of citizens, so that society becomes more welcoming and inclusive.
in writing. - i would like to thank my colleague angelika werthmann for her sensitivity and dedication to the specific situation of women with disabilities. it is essential to address the issue of violence and exclusion in the language and media of schools, to help children and young people to achieve a language of equity and equality. women with disabilities are more at risk of violence than other women. violence can take many forms: forced sexual acts and rape, forced placement in care facilities, confinement, intrusion into private spheres, forced sterilization, forced contraception, forced abortion etc. we must know that the integration of people from non-european countries entails the arduous burden of integrating these people into our social contexts and into the spirit of the union, the world home of human rights. to meet this challenge, we must put aside prejudice and hypocrisy, look at reality as it is and try to improve it. the challenge at european level is therefore to pursue legal action to combat structural violence against women with disabilities.
in writing. - people with disabilities must be protected and women are in a special situation which deserves special attention. often they find it even more difficult to find employment and some spend much of their time inside the house: the commission has also proposed that the community should provide a financial contribution to the development of the regions of the community, in particular the regions of the southern mediterranean, and that the community should provide financial assistance to the regions of the southern mediterranean. other points in the report are also quite agreeable, beyond gender issues: i am referring, for example, to the need for full accessibility to public administration websites, and we are finalising a parliamentary report on this in the coming weeks which is going in the right direction. the last point i want to make is the sexual exploitation of women with disabilities, which is the most despicable thing a person (who should not be defined as such) can do and should therefore be punished as severely as possible.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution supports the work that the european institutions, led by the european commission, are doing on european citizenship. women with disabilities are not just people, they are mainly women, with different roles to play. i believe that this fact should be emphasized and taken into account in the development of a european union based on equality and the rights of its citizens. the measures that can be taken at both member state and union level to try to eliminate discrimination or stereotyping once and for all are diverse. only by reducing social barriers and taking into account the changes and challenges of the various stages of a woman's life can a worthy and fair participation in social life be afforded. women with disabilities are also more at risk of violence than other women: that is why we must ensure that women and girls with disabilities are not subjected to any forced sterilization or abortion and that they have the same right to motherhood as others. the challenge is to actively include women with disabilities in society and to enable them to participate on an equal footing. europe must do everything possible to make this a reality, to enable everyone to lead a life that is as independent as possible, in line with their disability.
in writing. - my support for the report drawn up by my colleague mrs werthmann stems from my personal conviction that women with disabilities need more support in pursuing their social and work expectations. the document offers disabled women the opportunity to take longer maternity leave than mothers with normal incomes, which is one of the main reasons why i felt it was necessary to welcome it. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report, which has given the public a chance to reflect on a subject such as that of women with disabilities, which is often neglected or underestimated.
in writing. − during my parliamentary term i have had the opportunity to meet and listen to women with disabilities. i found some exceptional people, for their sensitivity and determination to live their lives to the fullest, making their disability a spur and a daily call to endurance, against the thousand difficulties that our society unfortunately still poses. when we talk about these women, we must bear in mind that we are talking about citizens, who cannot be defined by their disabilities. in fact, that is exactly what they do not want. every day, they face the same challenges and opportunities as other women; they are friends, daughters, mothers, wives and workers. they have different roles to play, just like any other woman. they are endowed with multiple talents and abilities and enrich our society, which benefits from their contribution by gaining depth and diversity. it is essential to take account of this positive contribution, to appreciate it and to promote it, as i have done today by voting in favour of this report. women with disabilities can participate in social life, both personally and in general, through a number of measures: the commission has also been active in the field of education and training, and has been involved in the development of the european year of education and training.
in writing. − the eu should be more aware of the risk that women with disabilities will experience violence and should work to eradicate discrimination against women with disabilities, and to eliminate prejudices so it is understood that the development of a culture of difference and diversity leads to great societal advantages. i agree with the rapporteur and support the establishing of instruments at eu level to fight structural violence against women with disabilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr werthmann, which deals with a sensitive subject, that of women with disabilities. just like other women, women with disabilities should be guaranteed the right to lead a life based on personal decisions and choices; the rapporteur stressed that it was therefore essential to work towards reducing social barriers and promoting greater awareness of disability.
in writing. − the adoption of the european retail action plan by the strasbourg chamber is an important recognition of the centrality of small and medium-sized commercial enterprises in the economic context of the european union. traditional local trade plays a very important social and cultural role which should also be protected by community rules. the important thing is that these rules do not end up completely replacing national ones, risking the dispersion of local peculiarities and identity traits that it is good to safeguard. the liberalization of markets is therefore welcome, provided that it respects the principle of subsidiarity and the specific character of the territories, and above all that it avoids liberalization becoming a total deregulation, thus ending up in the monopoly or oligopoly position of the larger companies to the detriment of small traders. i have tabled an amendment to emphasize the importance of protecting retail trade in public areas: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is a pity that the action plan did not focus sufficiently on the effects of the economic crisis on retail trade and, in particular, on small independent shops.
in writing. - although the basic text of the de jong report is acceptable, many of the rapporteur's good proposals were withdrawn and many amendments in favour of wide distribution were adopted, distorting its meaning. for these reasons i did not vote in favour.
in writing. - in the european economy, the retail trade has particular features which make it worthy of special attention: firstly, it is not transferable, in the sense that having a shop in the centre of milan is not like having one in a remote suburb of paris or in a small town in lithuania; however, it is replicable, so that the same trader can have business activities in the three locations mentioned, which has important implications in terms of the internal market. finally, for reasons of survival of the population that is supplied there, going below a certain concentration would have counterproductive effects (in the sense that if there were only one grocery store in the whole of milan it would make a lot of money, but if there were only one in the whole of lombardy the people who live in the mountains would have serious problems with supplies during the winter). these considerations lead me to support the proposal put forward by mr de jong, although i think that more attention to small shops in towns would be appreciated.
in writing. − the european commission, in its communication 'towards a european action plan for retail', identified the measures needed to strengthen the retail sector and eliminate the lack of competitiveness due to the restrictions on establishment and the barriers that still exist. the european parliament's initiative calls for the involvement of the european institutions in the definition of a strategy to improve the competitiveness of retailers by strengthening their economic, environmental and social performance. the text adopted reflects the epp's line in a strong way, particularly with regard to the removal of obstacles to free movement and establishment in the european single market, an objective that can be achieved by eliminating discriminatory practices and calling on retailers to share responsibility for sustainability. thanks to the epp report 2011, stakeholders in europe have already started important self-regulatory work, setting up a voluntary mechanism to tackle unfair trading practices, based on an agreed set of principles of good practice. the resolution aims to speed up and strengthen this process.
in writing. − retail is of major economic importance to the european union; 11 % of the total gdp is contributed by the retail sector in europe and it accounts for 15 % of employment. in order to improve the sustainable performance of the single market without having a negative impact on consumersʼ shopping experience or overall interests, retailers, traders and producers all need to be aligned to an initiative at eu level. i support the rapporteurʼs position and voted in favour of setting up the european retail action plan.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, with this report parliament wants to contribute to the debate on the future of the european institutions. the angle of observation is that of multi-level governance, that is to say, of the mechanisms of differentiation which historically have made it possible to reconcile the development of integration and unity and to ensure, one might say, in an aristotelian way, the substantial respect of the principle of equality, which means equal treatment of equal situations, but differentiated treatment of different situations. this is a crucial issue after the introduction of the single currency and especially after the crisis made clear the need to strengthen the governance of economic and monetary union. the report's main argument is that not only is it possible to build an economic governance of the euro within the institutional framework of the union, but that this is the only way to make this enhanced governance effective and democratically legitimate. the theory and practice of differentiation which the report proposes is therefore that of differentiation as an instrument of the unity of the union and not as an element of division and fracture. a differentiation based on the union institutions and not on the tendency to rely on intergovernmental procedures and instruments that prevailed after 2010. the report analyses and proposes a set of procedures consistent with this philosophy, among which i would like to highlight, among other things, the combination of article 352 and enhanced cooperation which, in some cases, with effects equivalent to those of a reform of the treaties, could make it possible to avoid the veto of countries outside the euro area. one of the main points of the report concerns democracy and the role of parliament. here the thesis is clear and argued: the european parliament is also the parliament of the euro, and the symmetry between the european parliament of the union and the council, which instead votes in the euro-zone format, provided for in article 136, for example, when combined with article 121 (6), is a fully legitimate procedure which allows the interests of the euro-zone member states to be balanced against the general interests of the union, which are in any case affected by the choices made within the euro-zone. there is no need for a euro-zone parliament and there is no need to go back on the principle introduced by the lisbon treaty, which states that members of parliament represent the citizens of the union. it is possible and necessary, of course, through the rules of procedure and through the political action of the groups, to organise specific forms of differentiation within parliament, linked to economic and monetary union, but without revising the treaty on this point and without providing for a formal differentiation of the role of members on the basis of nationality. the last two parts of the report analyse and propose reforms to existing treaties and, finally, hypotheses for treaty change. in the first case, the contribution of the econ and empl committees was decisive, taking up and developing many of the points already contained in the thyssen report. i would just like to emphasize a specific contribution on the technical possibility of placing the solidarity mechanism and then a fiscal capacity within the union budget. on the other hand, the report proposes a number of hypotheses, some of them ambitious, on the reform of the treaties: introducing codecision in economic policy, making the commission the centre and the backbone of a genuine european economic government, providing a sort of gateway through article 136 to achieve a competitive economic competence for the eurozone countries, which would lead to overcoming unanimity on the mff and own resources, and finally addressing the same procedure for revising the treaties. so a broad report, an ambitious report, for which i would like to thank the excellent cooperation i had with mr trzaskowski, who is now a minister in poland, and with him all the shadow rapporteurs and the other groups, a report on which i hope there will be broad agreement in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while we are talking about the air we breathe and wasting time in useless chatter, in italy, at this hour, tens of thousands of people are protesting in the streets and squares against the italian government, against this europe, against the euro. nineteen million are unemployed in the euro area, of whom 40 percent are young people. thirty percent of italian citizens are at risk of poverty. these are the real problems facing our people every day, and they cannot be solved by more europe, by the fiscal compact, by austerity policies or by balanced budgets. clear rules must be established which apply equally to all, otherwise our businesses will be destroyed by unfair competition, social dumping, taxes and bureaucracy. the citizens have only one certainty today: the european union is a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of the kind of europe that is not only a great example of a great europe, but also a great europe. either we change course quickly or history will decree the end of the euro and the death of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too have the duty and the pleasure of thanking the rapporteurs and of praising their excellent work, which has resulted in a near-unanimity of agreement within the committee - only three members of the committee voted against - and it is hoped that in tomorrow's vote a near-unanimity will be repeated. i must say that what i appreciate about this report is that it is really a real treaty - a small treaty - which explains in detail and precisely what the various levels of governance have been so far, but above all it gives a clear indication of the direction in which we are moving. we must never forget that the treaty of lisbon defines itself as a milestone and that milestone implies an end. so, the assessment of what has happened and what is happening must be measured in terms of the goal. it is clear that if the goal is merely the well-being of a single country which can be derived from membership of an economic community, there can be criticism, but if the goal is the greatness of the greatest political project of all time, that of a united europe, no longer bloodied by the death of its children, but becoming a continent at peace and a peacemaker in the world, then the discourse changes. multi-level governance has a different meaning, it is no longer a sign of incipient decomposition, but a sign of ongoing construction, according to an initial design in which different levels are reached one by one. that is why the rapporteurs are right when they describe the current situation of governance at various levels in a positive way - and they all describe it very accurately - but they are also right when they say that we must avoid new decisions and structures which can slow down the construction, can decompose it, can take away its harmony. in this respect, i think that the report they have presented is entirely to be supported, and i thank them again.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, mr leinen described the crisis as dynamite to many well-established policies in the european union and it is true that the crisis was and still is very difficult for our citizens and the eu as a whole. we had to overhaul economic governance systems completely, we had to use crisis management tools very often and on many occasions we really had to act very quickly. i think that you would all agree that very often we also observed quite strong temptations from the member states to use preferably intergovernmental methods, an intergovernmental approach. to be completely honest, sometimes that was the only way decisions could be adopted, especially when the decision was very pressing and had to be done at very short notice. i am afraid that it looks as though this would again be the preferred approach when it comes to the single resolution fund, because after yesterdayʼs discussion it seems that the compromise, if agreed next week, would imply establishing national compartments in the resolution fund for the transition phase, with these accumulated contributions from the national banking sectors being progressively mutualised. at the end of the ten-year build-up phase, the national compartments would disappear and all would contribute equally to any resolution operation. and i think that, despite this, we also have to emphasise the fact that in the last crisis years we have learned that the community method is clearly preferable to the intergovernmental one, because it reflects the union diversity better, it takes more account of differences between big and small member states, north and south member states, there is much better incorporated expression of the will of the citizens through the directly elected representatives in this parliament and it gives the truly communitarian european institutions, both parliament and the commission, the appropriate role. therefore this is always always a starting point for the commission and it is always a reference point for presenting proposals or indeed the ultimate goal, where we would like to see cooperation, even if set up on an intergovernmental basis, ultimately transformed and changed. it is, i think, our common task as it was on many previous occasions; as i am sure it would be with the overall construction of the banking union. with our president, dear miguel ángel, we have already seen in cosac, in the article 13 conference, in our interparliamentary dialogues, renewed interest by the national parliaments in european efforts, in european cooperation. this is good because it enhances ownership of eu decisions and it brings better information to the national parliaments, but what is very important and what has very often to be stressed is that at the same time we have to respect our prerogatives. what should be dealt with at european level, what should be deal with at national level? we have to do this in full respect of institutional laws which are different, and in full respect of the appropriate balance. if something was started as intergovernmental, then i think that later on we have to explore all possibilities as to how to get it on to a strong european communitarian platform. if you will allow me, i will conclude on the specific question posed by mr hughes, who was calling for a green paper on the eu-level automatic stabilisers. i think this is a very important question and as such it was already discussed in the blueprint on emu and also in the communication on the social dimension of emu. from our analyses, our bottom line is that such measures could only be envisaged in the much longer term as this would require significant treaty changes to the current eu competencies in this area, which are quite limited. but it is an idea that is worth exploring further. however for now i think that we need to focus on what we can achieve in the intermediate term, meaning the convergence and competitive instruments especially, and explore all the possibilities we have with our current competencies and in the framework of the current treaties.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has brought to light many points, many important contributions, and some important critical remarks, and it is impossible for me to answer all of them in this short time. however, i wanted to follow a line of reasoning starting from mr rangel's correct remark, which underlines what the real aim of the report is. i do not want to speak of differentiated integration as an end, but to emphasize that it is a means, a means made necessary by the current state of asymmetry between the euro zone and the union, which is temporary, except for the moment for some knocked-out states, but that the objective and philosophy of differentiated integration as a means and not as an end that we propose is precisely that of an instrument to safeguard the unity of the union and to allow this integration, this construction of a governance of the euro zone to rest on the institutions of the union and therefore be democratically legitimated. that is why, in the various procedures which we have mentioned and identified, the one referred to by mr scholz, namely enhanced cooperation, is only the last in the order of priority. we believe that we should always try to start with legal acts of a general nature, perhaps including derogations which are historically and legally provided for by the union's structure, and then move on to article 136 and only as a last resort to strengthened cooperation, precisely in line with this philosophy of differentiation based on unity. of course, there are different sensitivities, especially on a fundamental political point, that of parliament on the question of its possible differentiation, and in particular that of mr goulard, the spokesman, so to speak, of a line which seeks to consider, as you have said, the institutionalisation of the eurozone as legitimate. i continue to believe that only by building on the existing institutions and not backing down on the role of parliament as the representative of all citizens can we give an adequate response in terms of democratic legitimacy and that the road of differentiation within parliament, beyond this parliament, a possible new parliament, does not lead very far and leads in a direction that is different from the one we are currently taking. if we consider that the principle of the vote we have had today, a vote of consent by parliament at the top of an institution whose function does not concern all the countries of the union, but this binding vote was obtained by all members of parliament, is accepted in the ssm, it is clear that progress has already been made in this direction and so i believe that this report, together with many other indications, makes an important contribution to maintaining this line, which is the only one that i believe can lead us consistently to follow a common thread between the necessary differentiation of today and the possible unity of tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr lamassoure's report touches on a very important and sensitive subject. i would like to stress two points in particular which i consider to be absolutely decisive and central. the first is the european council's actual interference with the ordinary legislative procedure, which we have had a very clear experience of in the context of the adoption of the regulations relating to the mff and which is now likely to be repeated in the course which could lead to a regulation on so-called contractual agreements. it is contrary to the letter and spirit of the treaties for the european council to bind the council by a unanimous procedure and thus to empty the ordinary legislative procedure, which is based on qualified majority voting and the equal role of two co-decision-makers. i therefore welcome the proposal to include a standard wording in the european council conclusions. the other aspect of great importance for the forthcoming elections is the election of the president of the commission. the elections, which it is good to remember first of all that they are elections and not a vote of consent - that is what the treaty unequivocally says, and that this is therefore necessary, not only because of what the treaty itself says about the way in which the european council's proposal must take account of the result of the elections - this election can only be triggered by a procedure which the european council must undertake to respect and to establish, which moreover the eleventh declaration annexed to the treaties calls for defining and clarifying - and therefore also in this sense the proposal by mr lamassoure to ask the european council for a formal commitment which is not only about how it intends to respect, but also a commitment to define by common agreement a procedure precisely for implementing the eleventh declaration and thus making article 17, paragraph 7, substantial, is a proposal of great importance which i share.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course, the esm is an intergovernmental body, we know that. but if you want to go down the road of saying that the european union has nothing to do with the esm, i do not understand why the council and the commission have gone into detail, explained to us why this article, that article, because it would be a burden on the budget of the european union, you could do it with an agreement, but it would take 18 months. if it had nothing to do with you, the only logical response would have been to not answer. since it is a matter for the european union, and we know this well, because it is based on the commission, the decisions it takes are taken by the eurogroup, and it is even included in an article of the treaty which we have just amended, it is quite obvious that it is ridiculous to say: we have nothing to do with the esm. so you can't escape the first fundamental question: how is it that the administrative tribunal covers 50,000 people with seven judges and to perform the same function it takes five judges for 100 people? is this a wise use of taxpayer resources? and who exercises the supervisory and scrutiny function in the esm? parliament is not, because it is not part of the european union. are the national parliaments capable of doing this? what is this esm? it is in danger of becoming a body which is really out of control, and this small example, this small incident - which is not so small after all - is actually a worrying symptom of a trend which we, when we gave our opinion, precisely on the 136 amendment, the esm, clearly said was not the way to go, and there was also a clear indication in the conclusions of the european council. the way forward is to gradually integrate the esm into the legal and constitutional framework of the european union and not to remove it from it. and so, in view of the possibility that vice-president šefčovič has confirmed that the administrative tribunal will be used, it is really incomprehensible that the member states have chosen to allow this body to go in the opposite direction. and i must say with regret that the council representative's justification that five judges for every 100 people would represent a saving is laughable, whereas using the seven judges to cover 50 000 would have cost the european union's budget, which is then fed with the same resources because clearly not all the members of the european union are members of the esm, but all the members of the esm are members of the european union. so, really, i want to be clear: we're not here. the european parliament will continue to exercise its role of control and scrutiny over the esm and will call on the member states, including through cooperation with the national parliaments, to account for a policy choice which is in fact a worrying indication of a direction which is the exact opposite of the one that the governance of the euro area should take.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the chairman of our committee, mr moreira, is right. four years to get to this point was maybe a little too long. i am of course pleased that the rapporteurs have finally concluded this trilogue and this agreement with the commission and the council. in conclusion, on the basis of the new powers in international trade and the treaty of lisbon, clarity could be brought about as soon as possible with regard to delegated acts. i think we must also be aware that much needs to be done, not only through the indispensable rules, but also through what is a kind of mutual respect and trust that the commission and the council must earn in the relevant seats of the european parliament and, of course, vice versa. i believe that we have always managed to work with a great sense of responsibility as the committee on international trade and as an institution. i think, for example, of the question of delegated acts in a single act concerning the beneficiaries of the gsp scheme in ten new countries. perhaps a more cooperative attitude on the part of the commission would have been needed. in any case, this agreed consultation procedure is indispensable and for two reasons: i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the gatt agreement for a number of years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that all's well that ends well, as my colleagues have emphasized in their speeches, thanks to the work and dedication of the two rapporteurs. two important regulations which are coming to the final stage of this legislature, but which represent a real commitment to align the rules governing economic policy. the question of delegated acts, as has been said, will require well-defined roles and responsibilities. we need to increase the competitiveness of our companies. we need to strengthen our trade policy and we must do so in close connection with other important issues: i am referring to the tdi, now the review in the committee on international trade, which we hope will give european companies a real chance to grow in order to compensate for the damage caused by subsidies and dumping from third countries. simplification and transparency of procedures for a more favourable environment for both importers and exporters, to ensure the prosperity that the treaty of lisbon wanted with greater prominence in trade policy for the european institutions; the european parliament's central role in defining a clear, uniform and shared legislative framework and rules. a trade policy which can bring about cohesion and competitiveness among small and mediumsized enterprises. we therefore welcome the two recommendations because they lay down clear rules on anti-dumping, countervailing duty and codification procedures and therefore help the functioning of trade policies. that is what is needed, to eliminate unfair practices and still guarantee european union enterprises a competitive international environment under uniform rules. a parliament that is increasingly central in order to guarantee bilateral international agreements, to guarantee a more simplified framework and to create the best conditions for international trade where omnibus regulations and the modernisation of trade defence instruments strengthen the centrality of our parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that we are facing a very important solution for many people living in this part of the world, people who needed rules to allow them to have free access to a current account under appropriate conditions. the standardisation of terminology for payment account services, the facilitation of switching from one payment bank account to another and the creation of a right of access for all european citizens are the pillars of this measure, which is moving in the direction long desired and finally achieved. i think there's still something to be done. i hope that in the debate we are having and then in the vote in the house, the possibility of amending some of the corrections which have been introduced by the economic committee will be taken up. i confess that i do not understand what a genuine connection to the member state is, a criterion that has been used to reduce the level of access to the basic bank account. just as i do not think it is reasonable to limit the number of banking services connected to payment accounts for which standardisation in terminology is required. we had a solution which had its own rationality, its own reason for being, and these changes have objectively weakened it. the overall assessment of the set of rules we have defined remains positive, but i believe that it can be further strengthened if we correct these limits as well.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is another step forward but, once again, very cautious. our group in the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities supported the commission in presenting a single delegated act with the ten countries that will benefit from gsp+. i must say that we were not convinced from an institutional point of view that we were making the right choice and we shared the concerns of many colleagues who wanted separate acts. that said, in order not to delay the entry into force of the measure and to avoid any temptation, let us say, of a protectionist nature, we have supported the commission. after the inta vote we also had the opportunity to look at the assessments that the commission itself made as regards the capacity of the ten beneficiary countries to respect the 27 conventions they have to sign and we observed that, for both pakistan and armenia, there are actually assessments that are extremely worrying, both with regard to the consistency and coherence of the constitutional system of legislation already in place with respect to the signed conventions, and with regard to the capacity for implementation and implementation. i have to say that the commission should have shared this information before the vote in the inta committee and not afterwards and that is something that commissioner de gucht should be reminded of. at this point, the monitoring system is very important, fundamental. we have a new method: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the benefits of gsp+ are indispensable for trade stability and to give an incentive for human rights, democracy and so on, but they are also deserved because they can come at a cost to our producers. so, everybody, pay attention, and as you can see, the game is good to start, but it doesn't end here.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the honourable members who have pointed out that the method chosen by the commission deprives parliament of its rights and duties, sets a bad precedent and raises the concern that not everything is clear behind the choice of a single delegated act. gsp is the instrument for improving trade relations and, through economic development, for advancing democratic processes and must therefore not become a tool for creating disparities between developing countries to the detriment of the european system. we contest this list, which includes countries with different geographical areas and with totally different systems for occupational safety and respect for human rights. we stress that pakistan has already been helped recently by a major exemption from customs duties in the textile sector and that in the face of this aid nothing has changed for the better in that country and that therefore the sacrifice imposed on european textile companies has been in vain and that is why it was necessary to wait to apply the generalized tariff preferences today. we call for proper monitoring to be carried out immediately and - should the commission be prepared to open an investigation into the country - we call on the commission to never again submit delegated acts in which the disparity in geographical, democratic and political reality is so obvious, because we would not like to think that the interests of some country or some organisation take precedence over the interests of the european union and democracy.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the gsp+ is the centrepiece of the eu’s trade and development policy and has been a success so far, one that we wish to build on. let me reiterate that applicant countries have committed to taking bold steps to implement core human, social and labour rights, sometimes even before applying for preferences. they have met the entry requirements and this can be economically costly and politically difficult. the eu is proud that these countries are taking such steps, but we are not lenient: we have been tough in assisting them and assessing them. in terms of the analysis of the gsp+ entry criteria, the commission considers that a single delegated act better ensures that similarly situated gsp beneficiaries get identical treatment instead of individual delegated acts per country. the gsp schemes reflect the world trade organization’s principle that identical treatment should be available to all similarly situated gsp beneficiaries. as for the monitoring mechanism, the application will be ensured on a country-by-country basis in order to take into account the individual degree of progress that beneficiary countries will ensure. we are now completing the first technical phase for the first ten applicants. now a second phase will begin, focusing on compliance with the obligations taken on by the applicants under international conventions. the scrutiny and follow-up mechanisms provided in our legislation and which foresee an important role for the european parliament will require gsp+ beneficiary countries to prove that they are making genuine, verifiable progress. in this phase, the committee on international trade experts are invited to attend all gsp expert group meetings. the committee on international trade secretariat will receive all relevant documents shared with member states. draft updated scorecards will be discussed with the international trade committee which may also request dedicated commission briefing on monitoring throughout the duration of the gsp+ scheme. in applying this scheme, the eu institutions share the same objective: promoting development and eu values concurrently. through gsp and, in particular, gsp+, the commission considers it has lived up to parliament’s call in a resolution passed in april this year on advancing development through trade. i thank you very much for your contribution, for your positions, for your concerns and the points you have made, and i will pass your messages to commissioner de gucht.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the climate crisis is before our eyes and is getting worse every year, and is reaching a point of no return. every decade has been warmer than the last for the past 30 years, and greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise. a stronger global initiative is needed to reach an agreement that seriously involves the major polluting countries. binding commitments for substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are needed. we need to do more and more quickly. due to persistent and increasing climate change, the frequency of extreme weather events such as storms, hurricanes and floods has also increased in europe, most recently flooding in sardinia, italy, and northern europe. heatwaves have also become more severe. increasing temperatures, changes in the intensity and frequency of rainfall and droughts also have an impact on soil, fertility, erosion, aridity and desertification. in this context, the resolution on green infrastructure and its implementation, which is based on a question from the committee on the environment, is very important. green infrastructure is a tool for achieving ecological, economic and social benefits based on natural solutions. according to some studies, these infrastructures are economically advantageous, more durable than traditional ones and, in many cases, create new job opportunities at local level, can sometimes be an alternative, sometimes a component of traditional solutions, can be introduced into a network of natural and semi-natural areas, if strategically planned with other environmental elements can provide a wide range of ecosystem services. the role of green infrastructure becomes essential and must be placed in a european and national system; the strategy therefore needs to be implemented at national and local level in order to be effective. the european strategy needs to be transposed into member states' measures in order to give impetus to interventions based on the use of natural solutions based on the sustainable use of natural resources. i would like to mention briefly some of the possibilities for using green infrastructure: for example, in cities, with the design and construction of new green areas, green belts, parks, gardens, green groves, roofs and green walls; adaptation, integration and management and development of existing green infrastructure, aiming at mitigating the effects of heatwaves and improving the local microclimate. green infrastructure can make important contributions to restoring the eco-hydrogeological functionality of the land in areas of controlled flood expansion, to maintaining river basins and embankments, to stabilising slopes in mountain areas, but also in coastal areas where natural structures can be built. in addition, we believe that in order to develop the strategy even more effectively, we need to increase the involvement of the private sector in projects concerning green infrastructure. the resolution therefore urges the commission and the eib to set up a financing facility as soon as possible, including subsidy mechanisms for investment in green infrastructure. the conditions for the introduction of good practice are in place, the financial instruments are in place and can be built on existing funding funds such as the european regional development fund and the european agricultural fund for rural development. i conclude: to achieve this, coordination is needed and a detailed mapping of the actions to be taken is needed. we know that there is still a lot to be done, but a recent study shows that green infrastructure initiatives could theoretically cover, for example, in italy and france, a record 95% of the territory, with a total area of almost 290 000 square kilometres. a more realistic estimate limits the pool of actual applicability to a gigantic area of 50 percent. green infrastructure can also be a great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises, which can play a key role in this field, especially because of their propensity to innovate and to be sustainable. in this connection, i think it is a good idea to establish common european certifications and labels to support investment in green infrastructure and also to facilitate the exchange of good practice between companies. we thank the european commission for the effort it has made to give impetus to these issues and we call on it to implement as soon as possible a financial measure to accompany these policies and to make every effort to integrate all relevant instruments of the european union in order to contribute to the development of green infrastructure.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the success of green infrastructure solutions depends on the decisions that are made at national, regional and local levels. to mobilise experience and expertise at these levels, we need increased investment in training and capacity-building at appropriate levels in member states. these joint efforts to apply the green infrastructure strategy to real, tangible life must also be supported by the european union and international financial organisation funds. currently the commission is preparing further guidance to integrate green infrastructure into more policy areas and a brochure on green infrastructure for the wider public which will explain green infrastructure in concrete terms. the integration of green infrastructure into future policy instruments is an ongoing process. the commission will furthermore assess the opportunities for developing an eu 10g initiative, developing trans-european priority access for green infrastructure in europe with significant benefits for securing the resilience and vitality of some of europe's most relevant green infrastructure with consequential social and economic benefits. let me assure you that the commission will do its utmost to support and add value to the work of national and local authorities throughout europe to make green infrastructure the success we need. i thank you very much and i appreciate very much the contribution and interest you have paid to this issue and i look forward to jointly succeeding in the green infrastructure goals.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr draghi, commissioner, as you and we know, the economic situation on our continent remains dramatic, despite the very tentative signs of recovery. the specter of deflation is looming in the euro area, a clear sign of anemic demand. the picture in southern europe is, unfortunately, even worse. you, mr draghi, are an italian like me and i believe you are watching with the same unease as i am the riots that are sweeping our country at this hour. either the record is changed or the very project of european integration is at risk, because it is being challenged by the disillusionment and anger of millions of citizens. we must change our pace before it's too late. the ecb, president draghi, has done a great deal under your leadership and has broken important taboos, as we acknowledge in our report. i am thinking in particular of the orlt operations which have allowed the banking system to breathe in the short term, and i am also thinking of the announcement of the omt programme which has played a decisive role in stabilising expectations. but now more must be done. the transmission chain of monetary policy is still stuck, as evidenced by interest rate differentials and the decline in lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. the president is also aware of the seriousness of the situation and, as you said at your press conference last thursday, the ecb is ready and prepared to intervene. in our resolution we acknowledge that unconventional monetary policy instruments have revealed all their limits in supporting the real economy and we call on the ecb to consider the adoption of new measures. these new measures must be directed towards supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, and a very large majority has been created in parliament on this. the report identifies a number of measures: the adoption of a programme modelled on the example of the 'funding for lending' programme in england; the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last, and the european council in brussels on 15 and 16 december last, have been very positive in their efforts to bring about a new and more balanced and more effective european monetary system. this report, mr president, is balanced. we are not asking the ecb to pursue hyperinflationary policies, but we are asking you to avoid deflation and stagnation which would bring the european economy to its knees. these measures alone will not be enough if we do not have the audacity to clear a definition that is too often considered taboo: "exchange rate policy". an interesting study by a leading italian bank estimated the effects of exchange rate developments on gross domestic product in our country, and the conclusions are clear: the excessive strength of the single currency has succeeded in not only cancelling out but even overstating the benefits of lower interest rates. it is time to put the exchange rate back at the heart of monetary policy decisions, a more expansionary monetary policy which, by helping to curb the appreciation of our exchange rate, could give a little oxygen to manufacturing without triggering any inflationary dynamics. as you can see, mr president, this institution, parliament, has high expectations of the central bank, and it is also thanks to the action of the european parliament that the ecb has obtained competence for the supervision of banking institutions in the euro area. the ecb is also preparing to play a decisive role in the resolution process of european banks: use this power well and never abuse it. the european parliament will always be the guardian of european democracy and will constantly ensure that your action is at the service of society and the european project and not of a dogmatic vision of monetary stability.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr draghi, this report contains interesting points such as the need for a clear separation between deposit and investment banks, although i think that in the end we will have a very weak proposal compared to the original american glass-steagall model. i would like to take this opportunity to ask mr draghi what he thinks of the words of his deputy, mr vítor constâncio, in athens last may, when he said that the crisis was not caused by a problem of public debt of countries but by private debt. this debt of the peripheral countries has been fed mainly by the banks of france and germany, which are the ones helped by european money and have therefore lost nothing. the losers, on the other hand, have been the citizens of the countries in difficulty, which are now on their knees like greece and portugal, but italy too is likely to pay a very high price. our country has lost all autonomy and the ecb dictates our economic policy, for example by arguing that privatisation is still necessary. president draghi has a considerable experience in this area, such as the colossal sale of the yacht britannia in '92, "the big sack of italy". in greece this is the way it has been done, and in italy we are probably going to do the same, thus losing important areas of autonomy in a nation. the other day in rome you said that this is no time to go back to nationalism and protectionism. i think the opposite, and i think that would be the best solution, perhaps the only possible one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr draghi, fragmentation seems to have become the magic word that everyone repeats. i think that is a rather euphemistic term, but it hides a whole universe of problems, imbalances, divergences and contradictions. it is true that there has been a stabilisation after the phenomena of sudden stops in the flow of private capital to the deficit countries, but the problems also remain because they existed before the crisis of 2008. i refer first of all to the fact that the single currency crisis is also a crisis of the budgets and payments of the individual member states within the euro area, a phenomenon which seemed not to exist at the beginning of the euro. the point is therefore the asymmetric distribution of liquidity within the euro countries and this also concerns the effectiveness of the transmission of the monetary policy of the ecb. how can the european central bank ensure that its refinancing operations are actually functional for the real economy, as has been said above all for small and mediumsized enterprises, and are used to finance investment and commercial activities and not mainly speculative portfolio investment activities? we need some kind of quality control on the cash injections. i think we should also think critically about the bank of england's 'funding for lending', which has actually in some cases mainly favoured real estate investment, and i think we should also look at the use of abs instruments. you know, i'm sure some scholars have proposed, have hypothesized that we can take the experience of target 2 and make it into a kind of target 3: a system designed to make interest on activities financing the real economy less burdensome than interest on purely financial or speculative activities. i put this question to minister dijsselbloem a while ago and he said that this is not a matter for the finance ministers. i think i might get a critical answer from you, but probably a less banal one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr draghi, the wind of revolt blowing in italy is a direct consequence of the wrong choices made with the euro and the restrictive policies imposed by the european union and the ecb. i would just like to remind you how to finance at ridiculous rates the purchase of public debt of weak countries by the ecb in order to then introduce the purchase by strong countries on the primary market; then the ecb itself would buy this same debt on the secondary market at higher quotations: i'm going to make some very serious mistakes. you say, "beware of nationalism and protectionism", you have been saying this for years, and here are the results. our small and mediumsized enterprises are being eaten by chinese competition. the data needed us, that's what it was. one last question: was it so difficult to foresee that refinancing the ecb without imposing on them spending in the interest of the countries would result in spending on the speculative markets without a single euro in the ecb's favour? how much does the new ecb cost us? more than spending review! how much do you expect this new pharaonic construction of the ecb to cost us?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president draghi, at a critical moment you said a historic phrase: "ready to do anything to save the euro". the phrase itself, together with strong action, of course, stopped the speculative aggression, but now the citizens are asking us for more, they are asking us to get out of the crisis, so not only financial stability, but growth, development, jobs. the citizens ask us what is the use of a strong euro when we have, in spite of its great commitment, a weak central bank with a limited role. it is therefore time to go further, to have a european central bank which becomes the lender of last resort, the european development bank, a bank serving an industrial project, serving households and businesses and the real economy. citizens are asking us for access to credit, opportunities, not just to bail out the banks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to president draghi for his report, for what he said, but above all for what he did on the subject of reducing rates. i also thank commissioner rehn for asking for more funds for business credit and i would thank commissioner rehn even more if he did not bother with the odious tax on the first house which the italian parliament intended to abolish and it is not his or europe's job, commissioner, to protest about the taxes which a national parliament imposes or the odious taxes which a sovereign parliament wants to abolish. however, commissioner, the court government has agreed to this because overnight they removed the imu on the first house and introduced the tasi on the first house. mr. president draghi, i have a quick question for you. my country and your country, italy, guarantee the private debt; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president draghi, what happens now? do you feel that you can guarantee small savers, including those in italy, and give them the assurance that they will not lose any of their savings in the event of the failure of the bank in which they have deposited them? even in the light of last night's ecofin agreement, can savers be at ease?
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank and appreciate the speeches and the work of president draghi, commissioner rehn and all the speakers, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their excellent cooperation. i take up and reiterate the statement made by mrs ferreira: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i share the concerns expressed by my colleagues about the intergovernmental nature of the resolution fund. well the steps taken by president draghi on transparency, on gender equality with the goal of 2019; i too believe that the troika has been a problem rather than a remedy and that it has put the credibility of the ecb itself at risk; the commission has already taken the initiative in this area. banking union, economic union, fiscal union and political union; watch the weather. we have very little time, and i would like to see no more than 'dum europae consulitur, saguntum expugnatur'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the shortcomings of the current legislation have made tax evasion and avoidance and tax fraud even more widespread than before. the crisis has obviously contributed significantly to their development and for this reason their combat has become a top priority in order to find resources to invest in the context of development. then you have to do the things we discussed today: harmonise the taxable amount; exchange all sensitive information on these issues between countries; but there are other things that can be done which concern the discussion of the directives which are being discussed between you and us today. for example, introducing country-by-country reporting for companies, where there are spaces in the non-financial reporting directive for this, would be a good move to have the transparency elements that we need.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in support of cadec's hypothesis and by calling on the council to ensure that the next trilogue, the one we will have on 19 december, is decisive, otherwise this 'concession' which parliament is making today in response to the council's rigidity would compromise the overall timetable for the approval of this fund. unfortunately, the council has in recent months tried to change the preconditions for the reform which were laid down in the vote we took the other day on the reform of the common fisheries policy. i hope that the council on 19 may will appreciate this effort by parliament.
in writing. - i think that the thein report calling for an increase in the number of judges in the court of justice is acceptable, because of the increase in the number of cases pending, this decision could no longer be postponed, and that is why i decided to support this text with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which sets out parliament's position on the amendment of the protocol on the statute of the court of justice, increasing the number of judges at the court of first instance. the increase in the workload of the general court is an objective obstacle to the smooth and efficient functioning of a judicial body of major importance for the union. the compromise solution reached on increasing the number of judges seems to me to be balanced and in line with the will of the citizens. while the national realities of the eu member states must be taken into account, there is room for the merits and curriculum vitae of candidates regardless of nationality.
in writing. - the house report analysing the amendment of certain directives relating to the outermost regions, in particular mayotte, is a well thought-out text and i therefore supported it with my vote.
in writing. − following a referendum, the small island of mayotte, located north of madagascar, became a french overseas department in 2011. this motion for a resolution - which i voted for - is designed to redefine the legal status of this territory in relation to the union's legal order. in particular, in view of its socioeconomic situation and disadvantaged geographical location, mayotte is granted the status of 'outermost region' by making the necessary amendments to certain union legal texts.
in writing. − from 1 january 2014, the archipelago of mayotte will change its status from overseas territory to outermost region. according to the requests made by the french authorities, the community acquis will therefore be amended by derogations and transitional periods applicable to mayotte in several sectors from the date indicated above.
in writing. - the beres report is a vague text, which is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, considering that the legal basis chosen by the commission for granting mayotte an extension of the deadline for the application of directive 2010/18/eu was correct.
in writing. the report concerns the amendment of directive 2010/18/eu on the change of status of mayotte. the island will cease to be an overseas territory and will acquire the status of an outermost region of the union within the meaning of articles 349 and 355 tfeu. i shall abstain from voting on the text.
in writing. − the recent growth of green technologies has shown that investing in this sector is a great economic opportunity. although the recession has affected almost all sectors, including green technology, the latter has continued to grow. it is estimated that european green businesses currently generate an annual turnover of eur 319 billion and created as many as 600 000 new jobs between 2004 and 2008. given the already well-demonstrated importance and growth potential of the green technology sector, i support the report by mrs kadenbach, with the conviction that eco-innovation must be promoted as a tool combining environmental protection with growth and job creation.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in the kadenbach report, but i believe that to argue that the eu's economic and employment recovery can only come through the so-called 'green economy' is a sign of myopia with regard to the european productive reality which needs urgent concrete interventions rather than vague discourse on a hypothetical future sustainable economy. for these reasons i did not vote in favour of this text.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the proposal aims to make progress towards the goal of sustainable development by reducing negative impacts on the environment and pursuing a more efficient and responsible use of resources. eco-innovation is a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation. it helps to protect the environment by limiting greenhouse gas emissions, using resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, increasing the use of recycled materials and producing quality products with a lower environmental impact. investment in the sector is also a very useful tool for achieving the strategic objectives of growth, employment and support for smes. it presents important opportunities for new niche companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed and entrepreneurs who will benefit from innovative markets and business models.
in writing. - the so-called 'green' sector has been very successful in recent years, despite the crisis. and there is a clear awareness among citizens that it is worth investing in sustainable technologies and products, which cost a little more today but allow for big savings in the future, or lower environmental costs. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to think of eco-innovation as a tool for economic growth and jobs. parliament's own-initiative report is in line with the approach of the european commission, and i voted in favour of it, sharing its spirit and timing.
in writing. - i supported the kadenbach report because i am convinced that green technologies are the future of the european economy. eco-innovation means more jobs and more competitiveness. while all other sectors are declining due to the economic crisis, the green sector is constantly growing: it produces 2.5% of europe's gdp and employs 3.4 million people. in countries like germany, ecotechnology contributes to 8 percent of gdp, and these are numbers that are set to grow. europe is at the forefront of this, but we can certainly achieve more ambitious goals. results that can be achieved by encouraging smes to develop new eco-innovation projects and by eliminating environmentally harmful subsidies. the increase in funding for green technologies and the simplification of procedures, together with the development of standards for public procurement, must therefore be a priority for the union's industrial policy. the economic and social benefits are enormous, and europe cannot afford to lose this opportunity.
in writing. - to start again, an effective and constructive approach is needed. the companies that have made it through these months have only been able to rise from the quagmire of the economic crisis because they had the capacity to innovate. we are following their example and aiming to innovate at european level for the environmental sector. promoting eco-innovation will allow us to create jobs while ensuring high levels of competitiveness. i am convinced that the 'green professions' sector has a lot of room for growth. let's make the most of it. but let's get this straight. every job, every profession has, if you will, its 'green' side, its environmental side. a clearer strategy should therefore be developed with regard to green jobs and the green economy.
in writing. - eco-innovation, as rapporteur kadenbach says, is a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation. green technologies have shown in recent years that investing in green growth is a huge economic opportunity. by voting in favour of this report, i want to underline the potential and importance of eco-innovation, both in terms of creating sustainable jobs and promoting a green economy.
in writing. − with this own-initiative report, the european parliament has expressed its support for the european commission's communication on the eco-innovation action plan (eco-ap). i appreciated the broad approach of the report, which covered a wide range of issues, including business, employment, research and industrial innovation, as well as the purely environmental aspect. the diversity of the sectors involved immediately shows how important it is to continue to encourage this european policy in a transversal and integrated way, and i welcome the focus on it in the horizon 2020 programme.
in writing. - i supported this report: in times of economic crisis, characterised by high unemployment rates, high energy prices, scarcity of raw materials and dependence on imports, the creation of sustainable jobs and economic growth is crucial to ensuring social cohesion. innovation is a key factor in achieving this and must therefore be encouraged. one way to do this is to promote eco-innovation, a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
in writing. - today parliament voted in plenary on the report by mr kadenbach on eco-innovation. in times of economic crisis, unemployment, high energy prices, scarcity of raw materials and dependence on imports, the creation of sustainable jobs and economic growth is essential to ensure social cohesion. i agree with the rapporteur that innovation is a key factor in achieving this and must therefore be encouraged. one way to do this is to promote eco-innovation, a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation. the commission is currently promoting eco-innovation through demonstration projects, market-based financial instruments and public-private partnerships under the competitiveness and innovation framework programme. these instruments are also included in the horizon 2020 proposal. although almost every sector has suffered heavy losses due to the recession, the green sector, although having suffered from a decline in growth, is still growing. in supporting new processes, technologies and services that make businesses more sustainable and create new green jobs,the european legislator,member states and businesses need to remember that eco-innovation is not about creating green jobs at any cost. socially sound and fair working conditions and considerations of ecological, economic and social sustainability must always be among the guiding principles.
in writing. − to ensure social cohesion in times of economic crisis, characterised by high unemployment, high energy prices, scarce raw materials and dependence on imports, the creation of sustainable employment and economic growth is a priority. innovation is a key factor in achieving this and must therefore be encouraged. one way to do this is to promote eco-innovation, a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation. environmentally friendly innovations are very important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with a lower environmental impact. for these reasons i have expressed my support for mr kadenbach's text, which calls for a series of initiatives to develop eco-innovation, with the support of the public sector, the private sector and the european commission.
in writing. - i support the quisthoudt-rowohl report analysing the agreement at second reading on adaptation to the new rules on delegated and implementing acts for the trade policy package called 'trade omnibus i'.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty allows the commission to adopt a new type of act: the delegated acts. this is an important innovation, making it possible to make the union's decision-making processes more efficient and streamlined, the length of which is the main obstacle to the ability of the european institutions to respond in a timely manner to the needs of citizens. for this reason, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution to adapt the commission's rules for taking decisions in trade matters to the new system of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. − in the light of the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission had to adapt the rules for taking decisions on trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. as a result, the commission has put forward two alignment proposals known as omnibus i and omnibus ii. each of these brings together in a single instrument the basic commercial regulations that need to be updated; the first mainly concerns implementing acts, while the second mainly deals with delegated acts. the proposal under consideration (omnibus i) therefore makes the necessary amendments to the basic texts and specifies the procedures to be applied, in particular as regards the choice between the advisory procedure and the examination procedure for implementing acts. the opportunity presented by today's debate allows me, however, to remind you that the market is not helped by regulatory instruments alone.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in the leichtfried report, which analyses the amendments to certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers for the adoption of certain measures, and therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to make the decision-making process and the implementation of decisions taken in the field of trade policy more efficient. we can no longer afford for europe to respond to the needs of its citizens with legislative procedures that are often too long and inefficient. any improvement in this direction will always find my favour and political support. the institutions are lean, efficient and able to give concrete answers: this is the recipe for a europe that can meet the challenges of the future.
in writing. − in the light of the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on delegated acts), the commission had to adapt the rules for taking decisions on trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. the commission has therefore put forward two alignment proposals known as 'omnibus i' and 'omnibus ii', each of which brings together in a single instrument the existing trade regulations that need to be updated; the first covers mainly implementing acts, while the second covers mainly delegated acts. the present proposal ('omnibus ii') therefore introduces the necessary adjustments to be made to the existing texts which previously referred to the old comitology decision 1999/468/ec. we must thank the rapporteur, jörg leichtfried, for the sensitivity with which he has followed this dossier. we must all bear in mind that there is widespread discontent with this europe. that is why we must correct the mistakes of the past and, as we speak today, work towards ever greater integration between the countries of europe.
in writing. - the report by mr leichtfried on the amendment of certain regulations on the common commercial policy was voted on in plenary today. in the light of the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on delegated acts), the commission had to adapt the rules for taking decisions on trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts through two alignment proposals known as 'omnibus i' and 'omnibus ii, the first covering implementing acts, the second covering delegated acts. omnibus two . following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading by the house on 22 november 2012 and at second reading on 5 june 2013, the text of the agreement was submitted for a vote of approval to the inta committee on 11 july 2013, which approved it by an overwhelming majority, and on 15 november 2013 the council also adopted its position at first reading confirming the agreement. in view of the above and in agreement with the rapporteur, i think it appropriate to approve without amendments the council's position at first reading and the joint declaration of the parliament, the council and the commission on regulation (ec) no 3030/93 and regulation (ec) no 517/94.
in writing. - i think the klute report is a very balanced text with proposals which are very supportive of consumers, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − our will was already expressed in the resolution of 4 july 2012 with recommendations to the commission on access to basic banking services: more needs to be done to improve and develop the single market for retail banking. these developments must go hand in hand with efforts to ensure that the financial sector serves both business and consumers. at present, the lack of transparency and comparability of charges, as well as the difficulties in transferring the payment account, still create obstacles to full integration of the market. the discrepancies in product quality and the low level of competition in retail banking services need to be addressed and high quality standards ensured.
in writing. - the european parliament, in plenary session, voted this morning on a resolution by mr klute on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the transfer, comparability and access to basic bank current accounts. the text establishes the right for anyone legally resident in the eu to open a basic bank payment account, a right which should not be denied on the grounds of nationality or place of residence. insisting that most payment service providers, such as banks, offer a basic bank account can make life easier for consumers, increase business efficiency and help to modernise our economies. the resolution also implements a number of provisions on transparency and comparability of charges relating to the account, as well as greater simplicity in switching from one basic account to another, to ensure a high quality of customer service. for these reasons, i am in full support of a report which meets the general expectation of citizens that basic banking transactions should be simplified.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive tabled by mr klute, which was approved today, aims to improve the transparency and comparability of information on expenditure relating to bank accounts, to eliminate discrimination on the basis of residence in relation to access to accounts and to ensure common features for opening accounts throughout the union. therefore, anyone legally resident in the eu must have the right to open a basic bank account and this right cannot be denied on the basis of nationality or place of residence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we have adopted is an important report because to talk about maritime spatial planning means to overcome the idea that urban planning should end in the wet and dry, that is to say, on the line where the land offers all the interests that are often only and exclusively urban. crossing this line means breaking down a boundary, making sure that the sea is integrated and making sure that the sea with planning becomes a privileged place for planning for the development of blue growth. yeah, because maybe that's the real bet. the sea can offer extraordinary opportunities for the development of our economies, for job creation, for really fostering blue and green growth at the same time, but we have to create the conditions for this to happen, and the act of urban planning becomes the basis of this reasoning. avoid conflict when laying a cable or when building a pipeline, make sure that the sea is experienced as an important container for humanity.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the meissner report with my vote because it lays down legal bases which could lead to further community interference on the question of migration flows.
in writing. − to meet the growing demand for fish for consumption and to achieve sustainable management of eu fish stocks without further increasing imports, it would be essential to promote offshore aquaculture. at present, 90% of the union's external trade is carried by sea; europe's ports, shipping lanes and transport industry play a key role in ensuring the functioning of the supply chain and in connecting european businesses and markets to other world economies.
in writing. - the groote report is a technical report adapting to the new status of the outermost regions of mayotte, it does not present any criticisms, so i supported it with my vote.
in writing. − with the recognition of the status of 'outermost region', all the rules that make up the union's legal order will apply to mayotte. however, in order to ensure that this transition can take place gradually, it is necessary to provide for a number of derogations and transitional periods in certain areas of eu law. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which, in addition to redefining the correct legal basis for the adoption of this legislative proposal, establishes a process of gradual extension of eu law to mayotte.
in writing. the report concerns the amendment of the directives, through transitional periods, in the fields of environment, agriculture, social policy and public health, for the change of status of mayotte. the french island had already been transformed from an overseas territory to an overseas department in 2011; from 1 january 2014, eu law will be fully applied. i am voting in favour of the report because these amendments are necessary from the health and social point of view of the island.
in writing. - i think the cadec report is acceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - the scurria report on the european capitals of culture for the years 2020 to 2033 is a balanced text, which is why i decided to support it with my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the intergovernmental initiative 'european capitals of culture' has been running for 28 years and is a great opportunity to give visibility to those cities that stand out for their european sensibility in policy choices and actions. i agree that the criterion of rotation between member states for the award of the title is appropriate. i believe that particular importance should be attached to the involvement of civil society and the active participation of europeans, because the main objective should remain to make citizens understand the importance of the eu, of the integration process and, more generally, of our being together.
in writing. - i thank mr scurria for the excellent work he has done on this text which was adopted today. the text is a new commission proposal, which proposes to continue the european capitals of culture initiative after the current action expires in 2019. the new proposal establishes the order in which countries nominate cities for the title until 2033. in addition to the two member states sharing the title each year, the proposal also provides that candidate or potential candidate countries may nominate a european capital of culture every three years. i share the rapporteur's view that the commission's proposal to continue the european capitals of culture action beyond 2019 should be welcomed, with a renewed legal basis, seeking to resolve the problems raised by the current decision and attaching to the decision a new chronological list of member states (2020 to 2033).
in writing. − today, in plenary, the european parliament voted on the report by ms scurria on the eu action on the european capitals of culture for the years 2020 to 2033, with the aim of providing a new legal basis for further action to protect those cultural heritage sites which embody the european cultural consciousness. since its inception, the initiative has gained wide appreciation and interest throughout europe, becoming a highly coveted prize for those cities that aim to present themselves as european centres of culture and creativity. the approved text, while maintaining the main features and structure of the action currently under way, introduces a number of new features aimed at improving, inter alia, the visibility, the selection process of the action and the involvement of local civil society, in an overall perspective of long-term growth and urban development of the selected capitals. for the reasons stated above, i can only express my agreement with a resolution which, in the present context of a general economic crisis which threatens our sense of belonging to europe, provides concrete and tangible incentives for long-term cultural initiatives.
in writing. - the ferreira report is not critical in any way, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the adaptation of the union acquis to the new 'outermost region' of mayotte in certain areas such as fisheries and animal health: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. the archipelago of mayotte will cease to be an overseas territory of the french republic and will change its status to that of an 'outermost region' as from 1 january. following the request of the french government, mr ferreira's report outlines the changes to the regulations in the fisheries and animal health sectors in relation to community legislation. i therefore voted in favour of the text, which has already been approved by a very large majority in the committee on fisheries.
in writing. - i intend to support this resolution by voting in favour of the early entry into force of the delegated act discussed in the text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is worth extending this instrument to countries which meet specific requirements, such as those set by the european commission. solidarity also comes through these small gestures, which have little value to us but great relevance to those who receive them.
in writing. - i support this resolution, which is intended to express the european parliament's formal objection to the commission's delegated act on the gsp regulation granting pakistan trade privileges which will create damage to european companies.
in writing. - i voted against this motion for a resolution because it was aimed at form and not substance. with the excuse of a procedural quirk, two political groups wanted to slow down the work of the house without proposing anything constructive, and i am very pleased that i have helped, with colleagues from the major groups represented in parliament, to block this attempt.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the resolution on the implementation of national roma integration strategies because i believe that too much has already been done at european level. it is absurd that the eu should concentrate its political and economic efforts on a minority, always putting the support it owes to the european citizens in the background.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. social inclusion is a fundamental objective for the union. our societies, which are increasingly multicultural and multiethnic, also thanks to the important mobility that has developed also thanks to the european policies put in place, must become more and more places where the rights, mutual respect, solidarity and, in general, the quality of life of citizens are guaranteed. discrimination in all its forms must always be combated and every effort must be made to establish it in practice.
in writing. - here we are with yet another initiative in favour of the roma population, another resolution full of hypocritical words and considerations that are beyond all logic. the only passage i can agree with is the statement that we do not know the exact amount that the european union and the member states are spending on roma integration: i've tried to get specific information, but i've had no accurate results. i think this reticence is very suspicious and worrying, because i fear that the money allocated is much more than we can imagine, and there are many examples, even in our own countries. but i would like to focus on a couple of passages in this resolution, which calls for "programmes to facilitate access to the labour market, including a proportionate representation of roma in public services" and calls for "the european institutions to establish traineeship programmes and to hire roma in all institutions": the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. european institutions and public administrations should hire roma not on the basis of skills, as would be desirable, but only as roma and as such with a privileged access channel. another disgrace to the european union.
in writing. - i am very concerned about what is happening in ukraine. i remember well the scenes i saw on tv nine years ago, when people of my age stood in the square day and night until the real winner of the elections was recognized. well, a few years later, here we are, at the top of the list: the hope that the orange revolution gave rise to must be rekindled by new protests because the change was only on the surface. i hope that the eu will succeed, without giving in to blackmail, in extending its influence in such a way as to recognize the sacred right of the ukrainian people to self-determination.
in writing. the european union is showing its true face in this affair, that of a power-hungry 'monster': the eu has not yet taken any action to prevent the ukrainian authorities from using the eu's sanctions against the ukrainian authorities. two considerations are necessary: firstly, europe should not whine and beat its feet to the ground like a child, but should ask itself why it has come to this point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this choice also shows how the trend has changed in recent years, and people no longer see europe as an added value and a hope, but rather as a dangerous nightmare to be avoided. i wonder what would happen if brussels gave the citizens of the old member states the opportunity to express themselves: i think that would bring out all the discontent with the authoritarian, bureaucratic and oppressive drift that the european union has taken in recent years. the upcoming elections in may will be a test for all of us, and i am confident that the results will lead to a profound change in the current model.
in writing. − the european union is well advised to continue to monitor its neighbours, both to seize opportunities that arise and to accelerate progress as far as possible. this resolution on albania's progress takes a rather detailed picture with the obvious aim of highlighting the progress made and looking for solutions to those that have not been made. the committee on foreign affairs has done a very good job of summing up its views in this document, and i have chosen to vote in favour of the measure as a whole.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the resolution on the preparations for the european council of 19 and 20 december, since the proposals contained therein are totally different from the political line i have always supported.
in writing. − the european council, through its decisions, defines the political orientations and priorities of the union, providing the impetus for its development. at its next meeting on 19 and 20 december, the european council is expected to take important decisions on the completion of the banking union and the progress of the common security and defence policy (csdp) towards the establishment of a common defence policy. these are two areas of fundamental importance, where the union's ability to meet the challenges of the future is at stake, both internally and in its relations with the rest of the world. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which calls on the european council to create the necessary conditions for the member states of the union to assume greater responsibilities in these areas in a spirit of solidarity and loyal cooperation.
in writing. - the situation in many eu countries is dramatic, and i believe that these summits in recent months have never given the answers that people expected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. perhaps the underlying reason is the realization that europe, as it is structured, is no longer able to respond to the crisis and challenges of today: it is clear that the main problem is unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and there is only one way to solve this problem: to restore the competitiveness of our european enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must protect our industry by making foreign goods less attractive by reintroducing tariffs. we must also put an end to the phenomenon of relocation, because it is useless to save the name of a brand but lose all production and employment from our territories. without these trade policy measures, it is completely useless for the european summits to meet every two months to discuss nothing.
in writing. - i do not share the views expressed in this report on monetary policy in the eu, which is why i did not support the text with my vote.
in writing. - we all agree that the euro as it stands is not good: the objective of inflation may no longer be as relevant (as well as too high or too low), and multilevel economic governance does not allow for the policy coherence that would be needed to maximise the effectiveness of economic policies. the commission has no right to comment on the individual components of expenditure or revenue. at that point the citizen/taxpayer has the right to ask whether taxes are determined by rome, brussels or others, and who he should take it out on if the tax pressure is excessive. it is appropriate to bring some order back to these areas of competence, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i share the views expressed in mr lamassoure's report, which analyses the relations between the european parliament and the institutions representing national governments, and i therefore intend to vote in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i strongly agree that relations between parliament, the institution which represents the citizens, and the european council, where the governments sit, must be improved. too often in recent years we have seen a clash between the demands of citizens and those of governments. the most negative and striking example is that of the indication of the origin of products and traceability, which is strongly desired by citizens but equally opposed by certain governments. better coordination can certainly make this europe more democratic and more responsive to the demands of citizens and businesses.
in writing. - the text on the resolution on green infrastructure is well thought out and balanced, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the member states and the european commission to put in place an appropriate policy on green infrastructure. integrated action among the various authorities concerned can help to meet international commitments on combating climate change and the environment in general, protecting and conserving natural habitats, and improving the quality of life of citizens. in addition, green infrastructure also improves user safety, especially in the event of natural disasters, which unfortunately are becoming more frequent, and stimulates industrial innovation. i think it is very appropriate to use cohesion policy funds to support green infrastructure.
in writing. - i did not intend to vote in favour of the pittella report analysing the work of the european central bank for 2012, as i do not share the positions it takes; the text fails to address the problems of the single currency and fails to acknowledge europe's inability to manage the current crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour because, although the ecb has played a leading role in recent years in trying to stem the crisis in europe by putting rescue plans into practice, i believe it is important to adopt policies to avoid stagnation and deflation and to be bolder in defending manufacturing and smes, the backbone of the european economy. when it was conceived, the ecb was equipped to deal with certain problems that are no longer the present problems. the ecb therefore needs to evolve and restructure in order to be ready to deal effectively with the current challenges and thus be closer to the real economy, households and businesses. time is short and we must act quickly. nevertheless, the central bank is called upon to pay greater attention to interest rate disparities and to take a more interventionist role in the exchange rates of the single currency. the ecb is also urged to make its monetary policy more accommodative in order to offset exchange rate appreciation.
in writing. the european central bank is doing a very hard job these days: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i have some reservations about the inflation rate, which is probably too low, but given the complexity of the variables involved, i prefer it to the galloping rates i have not remembered since i was a child. in general, the euro is holding up during the crisis, and it is certainly not the ecb that we can blame. i therefore voted in favour of this report, partly because of the mediation work carried out by my colleagues in the econ committee to soften the tone and the direction which the rapporteur had initially expressed. let us remember that the monetary problems we face every day have other people to blame and solutions that should not be found in frankfurt.
in writing. − 2012 was a particularly difficult year for the euro area. the balance of the actions undertaken by the central bank is certainly positive, considering the courageous measures taken, which have contributed decisively to the stabilization of the banking sector. on the other hand, however, we cannot ignore the very serious problems which still exist in the euro area: unemployment, which stood at around 11,4% at the end of 2012; the restricted nature of credit, especially to smes, and the general weakness of the european banking system, which must be reformed in structural terms and strengthened by the development of a proper banking union.
in writing. − although the ecb's mission is to 'keep the value of the euro unchanged', the rules can be changed in favour of credit to firms and households. although the ecb has zeroed the cost of money by allowing credit institutions to buy longer-term public and private securities, thus supporting the course of bond markets and providing oxygen to banks' balance sheets, it has not worried about the side effect of these policies: the aim of the european council is to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of energy. in italy, there was a record fall in the provision of credit to households and businesses: bank lending contracted by 3.7% year-on-year after -3.5% in september, marking the biggest decline in history. in detail, loans to households fell by 1.3% over the 12 months (-1.1% in september) while those to non-financial corporations fell by 4.9% (-4.2% in september). it is clear that the financial policies in place are not helping the crisis afflicting europe and italy. i am disappointed by your speech and the choices you have made so far as president of the ecb: i thought it was addressing the dire economic situation and proposing credible solutions for businesses and families.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by vice-president pittella on the activities of the european central bank and its monetary policy for 2012. the measures taken by the ecb in 2012 have undoubtedly contributed to stabilising the banking sector, helping to break the link between banks and sovereign issuers, but it should not be overlooked that the current economic situation, especially in some parts of europe, is persisting and increasingly likely to generate instability in the euro area and the consequent strengthening of anti-european movements.
in writing. - i believe that only by harmonizing the tax base between the member states can we effectively combat tax evasion, which is why i support the resolution we are voting on.
in writing. - i chose to vote in favour of this resolution, rather than the other two on the same subject, because i thought it more balanced, more concrete and more closely linked to the powers of this institution, which at present has only an advisory role in tax matters. it is worth remembering that tax evasion, at all levels, is a plague that wastes us time and money every year. as economists say, "there is no such thing as a free lunch", because there is always someone who pays. and for every taxpayer who doesn't do his duty, there will be others who will have to pay more or a service will not be provided optimally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is said in this resolution is against all rights and europe, which bases its constitution on such fundamental values as the defence of human rights, cannot remain insensitive to such news. i therefore ask that there be a thorough examination of this resolution, that the seriousness and the truth of the above be verified, also because all previous resolutions and actions have not had any kind of practical result and we must avoid discussing a resolution that will have no effect. i also hope that the people's republic of china will put into practice the statement of the director of the organ donation committee in china that only voluntary donated organs will be allowed in transplant hospitals. i would like to conclude by calling for the introduction of the computerized organ donation system cotrs in china for greater control.
